ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the eight questions to be debated today. The first, with number 792-6-2020, topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Republic, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Extension of the declaration of the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Elefsina in an emergency", will not be discussed after the Minister and the MP have been informed. The first two topical questions to be discussed will always be answered by the Minister of Development and Investment, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis. We shall immediately proceed to the first with number 775-6-2020 in an up-to-date first-round question by Evia MEP Mr Simos Kedicoglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: ‘Expansion of a natural gas network in northern Evia’. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the extension of gas supply to Northern Evia is crucial, both for the viability of existing business, at high energy costs and for attracting new investments with corresponding energy needs. At the same time, it will significantly reduce the cost of heating the population of the region, where winter is often heavy, as well as environmental consequences from current burning of wood and other forms of heating. Although everyone agrees on the necessity of the project and there is interest in the private sector, and relevant permits have been launched from what we know, the process has been frozen. We're also learning about judicial involvement. Given the additional problems caused by the Coronavi crisis, the urgent implementation of the project becomes even more urgent. We would like to ask you, Minister, when will the extension of the gas supply network to Northern Evia begin and what procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kind words. The truth is that I am trying to be present in parliamentary control, which I very much honour. Mr Colleague, the question comes after a meeting we had in my office and I would like to thank all the Members of the New Democracy of Evia who were present in the debate on this subject, as well as the Mayor of Mandudi, the Vice-President, the employees' representatives of the "TERNA WHITE" operation in Mandudi Evia. As you recall, we operated together - I believe with a relative success - a crisis, that is, when the company GEK TERNA was at a crossroads as to what it will decide on the continuation of this factory, but also on the concern of the workers in this factory that they would stay without work. Thanks to your timely and timely intervention by both your colleagues, and also to the activation of the Ministry of Development, negotiations with the company have been successful, in reality these jobs are being rescued and the plant is already in a phase of reconstruction and reform, so that it can be sustainable for many years to come. But through this procedure, the question of the viability of the plant was raised as a very big issue of the gas issue, which you raise in this question. For what? Because the company is now forced to bring natural gas, which is the fuel for the production of whitestone with LNG, i.e. liquefied natural gas, which significantly increases construction costs, which would be extremely reduced if it could have been provided with natural gas from the network. And then we discovered that there is, indeed, this court dispute to which you referred earlier. So what's the picture of the gas network for the area, so we can put it in a row? I'm doing a parentheses here. Unfortunately, in recent years, the SYRIZA government has not achieved any work anywhere in Greece. Today in the NSRF the largest available resources, which if we cannot find a solution to make tenders quickly, will be lost by the NSRF - because the next programme does not have money for gas, for gas projects - are because the TEN for the SYRIZA era - for which reasons I have heard various stories - did not make any tender for any gas project anywhere in Greece, whether we are talking about Eastern Macedonia, whether we are talking about Evia or we are talking about western Macedonia. Everything was on paper. A competition hadn't been held. Our government has changed the administration of the TEN, put worthy people and all the procedures have already begun. The next month the tender of the work for Chalkida and the connection between Chalkida and the gas pipeline begins. Of course, it should first be built in Chalkida and then the work for northern Evia, which is part of it, but the procedures have not gone ahead, precisely for the reason I mentioned earlier. In my dentistry, I will tell you about the court dispute and what I think can be done to speed up the supply of natural gas, at least until Madudi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u6	I am pleased to see the beginning of your answer. I'm waiting for the completion. I, too, have been informed that the region has approved the tender documents for the project by the end of the year. It is very important that this should start as soon as possible. From there on, Minister, there is, as you said, the business interest in the existing unit, GEK TERNA Whitestones, which at the lowest energy cost will be easier to make and will be able to regain the job of those people who, with your help, have been well qualified and have been able to make a difficult contribution to the operation because of the coronary. I now hear that in Western Magnesia and Mandudi, they will, above all, also look for other products, even in fertilisers. They will expand the range of products, so it will be much more easily sustainable. But the lowest energy cost will help to make things safer in Madudi. Let us not forget that the sufferings of Evia began with the most famous socializations of the 1980s at the time of the Skalisti mines in Mandudi and since then the region has not recovered. I would, however, like, Minister, the network not to stop in Mandudi, perhaps because there is an interest in the operation to bring it to Madudi and it is also offered to take over construction. That was the subject of the judicial dispute, which must definitely be resolved. But we must go further than fifty, sixty kilometres northerly, covering the region of Istia, because it is very important - with the problems in our economy - that we can attract energy-intensive production units to the region. It is an urgent need to broaden our production base. This is an area offered for many activities. If we can offer low energy costs, we'll wait for a better tomorrow easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for your denunciation in Mr Kedicoglou's question, Evia MEP and not Croatia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u8	You are right, Mr President, I forgot to mention this. Nice beaches are in Croatia, I must confess, but in Evia they are still better. First of all, I have indeed undertaken an intermediation effort in the judicial dispute that TENA, before our governance, with the company "GEC TERNA", which had stated itself its intention to build the gas pipeline up to Mandudi, precisely to transport natural gas to GEK TERNA Whitestones plant, to win from the drop in production costs from this factory, which is now about twice the crisis of LNG. But when GEK TERNA expressed that intention, then the TEN-T administration went to the courts, considering that it should complete all the gas supply work in northern Evia. This has now led to a oxymoor, one company wanting to build it and not leave it to the state, i.e. the TEN-T, on the pretext that it wants to make the whole network, eventually not making any network at all in Evia, nor in northern Evia, nor in central or nowhere. It was the magic of the SYRIZA era. Well, our governance has changed the policy, the TEDDA intends to end the court dispute with "GEC TERNA", so that the company starts the gas pipeline as soon as possible to Mandudi, which is its intention, for the reason I have already mentioned. For the request, now, to go to the Istanbul, that is why, as you can see, the company has not expressed such an intention. The company's interest is the factory, that's why she's interested in it, so she's offered to build the pipeline. But I told you that the TEN has the intention, immediately after the tender that, as you rightly said, has been prepared and that the project will be auctioned next month for the Chalkida region, that it should also proceed to northern Evia and complete the network, in addition to the pipeline to be built by GEK TERNA. Obviously, we are interested in the company moving quickly to earn time, but the whole network will build it when it can, but we put it on a priority. Thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u9	Good, dear Mr. Kegeroglu, we will be interrupting for five (5') minutes for the Minister to come to the Prime Minister, Mr. Petsas. I apologise on behalf of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now moving on to the third with number 779/5-6-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: 'Support for television stations and media in the region'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the role of regional television is well known to you, important, critical, but more familiar with the citizens of the region, the countryside. Despite his great offer, he is treated disproportionately by the state over time. Today, we can, based on the experience of previous months and the effort to tackle the pandemic, not only to confirm this long-term offer of regional television, but to say all together to all tons that it has played a decisive role in dealing with the pandemic, by direct and valid information to citizens, both on measures, rules and prospects, but also on trying to restart the economy. Unfortunately, they do not enjoy the corresponding support. From the outset they raised the following issues: first of all, support for the wage costs of workers, since it is not a solution for regional television to reduce staff or rotating work or to suspend work, because it is not a classic business. It needs all staff to be able to function properly. They raised a matter of reducing tax burdens. On the occasion of the coronary, 20% that happened 5%, I think it has no meaning anymore, and according to their opinion, to exist. In the monthly lease by DIGEA for three months, 50% was suspended, together with the central means, of which the DIGEA is a company, and they requested at least three months. I now come to the question of financial assistance, which has been proposed from the outset in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, for our part, which had to be respected in order to obtain financial support for regional instruments, particularly for regional television. The first rule relates to the criterion of the worker at each station, so that the aid is linked to the obligation and the financial burden of the instrument. The second criterion, which is also clear from the law, concerns 30% that we have to provide from all regional aid. I think that there was no response to the particular issues they have raised from Greek informational regional television and their complaints are more than justified. And there is, Minister, and a complaint, that there has never been a meeting and consultation with them. We would therefore like your answers on whether these requests which have been made, you are prepared, you intend - because they may exist - to do so and so strengthen regional television and its important role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, ladies and gentlemen, we are proud of the collective treatment of pandemic in our country. All Greeks became one and we showed deep sense of solidarity. However, it is necessary to remain alert so as not to lose what I have been troubled by all the previous months. The good results of the country in dealing with the pandemic didn't come at random. First of all, they are due to the individual responsibility and collective maturity, the discipline and self-reliance of the Greeks towards the common enemy, the coronary. It is due to the effectiveness of the state and the integrity of doctors, nurses and civil protection staff, who have been in the front line since the very beginning. They are due to the fact that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis made timely difficult, but proper decisions. The government's plan was developed on three axes: firstly, the effective resurgence of virus dispersion. Secondly, the active support of the health system. Thirdly, to support firms and workers affected. So in these difficult and demanding conditions for the Greek economy, we have not left the media sector out of support. And in this context, I would like to thank Mr Kegeroglu who, in his timely question, gives me the opportunity to develop the initiatives taken by the government in particular for the regional media, which have been the same from the very beginning as the protection and support framework of the Greek Government, such as any operation that was affected. In particular, we have included in the activity codes of the branches affected by the pandemic and the twelve SARs involving media activities. In addition, for the wider application of the beneficial measures, they were included in the list of affected and affected enterprises, which are registered in the Electronic Media Business Register, the ONLINE MEDIA Register, which is held in the General Secretariat for Communication and Information, which includes some nineteen companies. I will testify later on all the items relating to the Minutes. It should be recalled that the support package included, inter alia, measures aimed at strengthening business liquidity, measures relating to tax and insurance obligations, but also dues, measures for business workers. I will also present in the minutes my letter of 19 May 2020 to the ESA, which describes in detail the individual measures taken by the Greek Government to strengthen the media. In particular, to facilitate the issuing of newspapers regional enterprises, an extension of the deadline for the submission of an application for first registration and for the renewal of registration was envisaged in the Electronic Register of Regional and Local Press. It was considered justified not to issue a specific number of sheets of regional and local newspapers during the period from 16 March to 30 April 2020. For the same time, the sales volume liabilities per issue and the size of the newspaper have been reduced by half. Thus, we have ensured that they continue to operate and that they are permanently registered in the Electronic Register of Regional and Local Press, which is linked to advantages for state registrations and financial support. This support has also been followed up by our horizontal intervention to facilitate the making available of newspapers to the public by supermarkets. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have also taken further measures for regional television stations, taking into account their decisive role - as Mr Kegeroglu said - in informing citizens at the current juncture and in order to ensure support for entrepreneurship, their sustainable and smooth functioning and the protection of workers' jobs in them. A majority of the monthly remuneration due for the months of March, April and May was granted to television channels of national or regional scope for payment to DIGEA. In addition, the same provision specifically laid down that, from 1 May to 31 August 2020, ‘DIGEA’ may not terminate the trademark due to debts to television channels that have paid half its monthly remuneration for the three months mentioned above. Thus, for the Lockdown period, we have enabled these enterprises to reduce some of their operating costs by offsetting the loss of advertising revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, the success of Greece in confronting the unprecedented Koroni health crisis has made a decisive contribution to the early and valid information of citizens from the first moment, because it was one of the most important weapons that the state had. In addition to the free information messages, a professional and organised communication and information campaign was developed until 31 May and concerned all categories of media - press releases, television channels, radio stations, sites and social media - with a view to the provision and penetration of the campaign messages as widely and efficiently as possible. Special attention was paid to local and regional instruments, and their participation in the breakdown of total expenditure by instrument category was explicitly predicted. At the same time, the greatest effort was made to get as close as possible to 30% of regional resources, despite the fact that this campaign was not compulsory for that quota to be followed. I have responded on these issues on several occasions to different questions from Members of Parliament, various groups, and have been present and I have given detailed clarifications to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on 10 April 2020. In addition, I have tabled a table in the House with the thousands of two hundred and thirty media involved in the communication campaign, which I will be tabling again today. Ladies and gentlemen, in the timely question by Mr Kegeroglou, reference is made to the compulsory participation of regional media with 30% in the communication programmes, which draw up public sector bodies. Let me clarify this: on the basis of the existing legislative framework, e.g. 261/1997 and Law 2328/95, public sector bodies are preparing an annual communication programme next year, which is submitted to the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information for approval for amounts exceeding EUR 30 000. This is the case with legality and not with regard to the minimum rate of participation, 30%, of regional instruments in the allocation of total advertising expenditure by instrument category. The verification of the implementation of the communication programme and compliance with the above percentage shall be carried out accountingly the following year from which it relates. Each proposal includes concrete actions, clearly identified and approved for them. Therefore, any emergency and unforeseen needs cannot be met, such as coronary information actions. And in order to have a comparison for the amount of these programmes, I will table in the Minutes the amounts from 2015 to 2020. It is clear from the above that the Government has taken several initiatives to support and strengthen the media in every category and geographical area in recent months in order to address the economic difficulties caused by the coronary pandemic. But, before that, as you know, we have moved on to remove obstacles to attracting investors and facilitating SMEs to participate in investment and development programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to conclude with some more general points.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u14	Minister, in your dentistry. I've already left you three times the time. I can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u15	Well, then I can answer three specific questions raised by Mr Kegeroglu in dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u17	Minister, the important contribution of regional television to development, social prosperity, rural and regional problems, in general, seems to be not recognized by the state. It is treated as the poor relative of the Athenian media. You have referred to the great amount of work you have done these weeks to deal with the pandemic. Indeed, the volume of this work is huge, even for the information and the information piece. Only we can see that all this volume you want, as far as regional television is concerned, to do it free of charge. But that's not the role of the state. It is not the state's role to deal with two measures and two standards which play the same and particularly crucial role in the case of regional television. I say this in full knowledge, because I am working together and working with all of us both with the central means and with the regional ones. It is a completely different concept and practice. It's quite a different result. Different criteria. No relationship to purposes, no relationship to issues that distort opinion, information. In this sense, I would say that there should be a preferential relationship with regional instruments. But in practice the opposite happens. The measures you have said in general for businesses cannot be implemented and have not been implemented on regional television. The number of employees to operate the television is given. It cannot be reduced, nor suspended, nor rotary work can be done. Besides, the instrument won't work. Therefore, the Brussis measures were not needed, but a job subsidy which, together with insurance contributions, would reach a significant proportion of wage and non-wage costs, so that they could survive and do not have a burden in the next few years. The aid that it has to do through state advertising, this amount of work, which has actually implemented both regional instruments and all the means of the country. It's not a random piece that the law delimits it to about 30%. Indeed there was the viewing of all these stations in the days, weeks, months of the coronary. And that I think you should respect it with respectful care, faith. That is to say, look at the thousands of instruments you have said how you finance and correct by means of a supplementary decision so that the means, regional and, above all, regional television, which we are discussing today, take the part that they are responsible for surviving, not for any other reason. They don't go for profits anymore. They're going to survive. In this context, I believe that legislation needs to be made clear on the issue of monthly rental to the provider, 'DIGEA'. The general statement that it will not cut their supply, the mark, is not so correct in the sense that the debts are considered to be due. The 20% tax that has been made 5%, you know very well that it is about business, the customer. It's not about the media. But what's he doing? It reduces the possibility for businesses to be advertised. But, from this advertising of small, small and medium-sized enterprises in the region, television media actually live. Therefore, it would be a good sign of goodwill to zero this tax for at least a period of time. Minister, television is essentially a sector of special purpose and, in particular, regional television. Therefore, it needs to be treated differently from other companies. We have submitted you interventions all this time, asking you and to meet and consult with regional television and other regional media. I would like to present four letters to you today, but I would like them to be tabled to the House, so that it would appear that the Greek television, the regional television, raised the issues, did not find a response to the extent it was expected, and that is reflected in the last letter sent to you by the Hellenic Region's Association of Information Televisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the undertakings concerned by television channels, particularly regional ones, have the same benefits as those by the State for all sectors of the economy. I do not understand why it has not benefited from the interest subsidy of a small and medium-sized enterprise, such as an undertaking that has a regional television station. I also do not understand why it has not benefited from the suspension of tax and insurance obligations. All this also covers the regional television stations that Mr Kegeroglu said. Also, I have to say that in terms of monthly rental we have given the option to reduce the monthly instalment to the provider by 50% for the three months and the obligation not to interrupt the alert until the end of August. We do not have any particular debate at this time, as we had the previous time to extend this regime. Here we are, if there are problems after 31 August, seeing it, but there does not seem to be any such issue. On the contrary, we intend to consider the 5% advertising tax, as you said, Mr Kegeroglu, in the next period, and I will soon be able to tell you more, and we are also considering providing incentives to increase advertising expenditure. Also very soon we will be able to specialise these two interventions from which both pan-Hellenic and regional television channels will benefit. I conclude by saying, Mr President, that the role of regional television stations, regional newspapers and all regional media is very important, and that is why we have placed so much emphasis on the campaign that it has just ended, so that, as you will see in the table I will be tabling, so many instruments can participate in this campaign, firstly with the possibility of informing all citizens in good time and secondly, of the enormous fall in advertising expenditure that has occurred in the months of Lockdown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 12 June 2020, which contains only a timely question to the Prime Minister. Time of the Prime Minister (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Alexiou Tsipras, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, on the subject: "Effective response to the consequences of the health crisis in the Greek economy". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the fourth with 763/1-6-2020 a top-level question from the first group of Vice-Presidents of Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New cases of unauthorised diversion of police force'. The State Secretary, Mr Economou, will answer all the burden of the parliamentary control of the relevant Ministry. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of my question, it is a picture released on social media on 30-5-2020. Describe the image: Police with full training have tied a man's backbone and forced him to lie forwards on the street on the Evripidou Street in Athens. A policeman pushes him on the ground with the weight of his body and the knee on his back. The picture, unfortunately, shows many similarities to police practice, which led to the shocking murder of George Floyd in the United States Minneapolis. On May 23, the men of the "DIA" completely arbitrary and abusively abused a brutal youth in Sepulia, and according to complaints by the victim, also persecuted the ambulance of EKAV who had been invaded in the area. Since the Minister has been asked on several occasions about the type and context of police training without any substantial response, while the whole behaviour of the Ministry's leadership not only covers, but it also seems to encourage such diversions, I ask you again, Minister: Has the Ministry's leadership realised the political responsibility for its position? How will the proliferation of similar phenomena for which the Minister himself bears direct and main responsibility? Finally, what immediate measures does it intend to take to ensure the full compliance of the institutions of order with constitutional law, in order to avoid any tragic incidents? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Mrs. Sacorafa. Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the afternoon of May 30, 2020, a foreign man of Pakistani origin, was found on the streets of Euripidou and Menandrou, moving suspiciously, which drew the attention of the police patrol of the Athens Police Department. The view of the police is starting to run. A few meters down in the contribution of Epikourou and Gymophropoulou flew a knife with a length of twenty - three centimeters, which brought with him. As expected, the police proceeded to his arrest. And during the arrest, he strongly resisted by violating the corresponding provisions, which provide for his compliance during the police officers' activities with the result that he was arrested. It was then taken before the Advocate General. With regard to the incident that took place on 24 May 2020 in the Cologne region, the events were unfolded as follows: the summer hours of 24 May in the contribution of Cretan and Antigonian domestic male motorcycle driver not wearing the protective helmet stationed next to a patrol of the group "DIA". An expected and enforced action by the police was to make recommendations to him, although they should normally impose on him the fine, but they suffice in the first phase to recommend that he wear his helmet. This led to unjustified vocal assault and threatening behaviour towards the police and thus to arrest him despite his strong resistance. Suddenly a second national, a friendly person of the above mentioned, attacked with fists against the police of "DIA" who finally managed to stop him. Indeed, his attempt to make a commitment led to injury both to the same person and to a police event that reveals the size of the resistance the arrested person displayed. Then and while the two detainees were driven to Cologne Police, another nationalist man, apparently their friendly environment, entered with his cell phone into the police department by videotaping all the present, arrested and police officers, devouring them on extremely insulting terms. At his expense, as expected, a litigation was formed for exaltation. In the two injured, police officer and arrested, the first aid was provided from the 401 General Military Hospital of Athens and from the State General "GEORGIOS GENNAMAS" respectively. Finally, after submission of a few days later to the police officers of the "DIA" group, a preliminary administrative examination was ordered, while the National Empowerment Investigation Mechanism of the Citizen's Counsellor was updated. In the case of the events of Tinos on 20 and 21 May 2020 police forces were mobilised upon request of assistance from the company "ENERGY CYCLADES EPE", which has undertaken the completion of a wind park in the region of Prassa Campos of War. Despite calls by the head of the Greek Police Forces to leave the spot the protesters as they prevented the transit of the company's trucks, they intensified their protest by lying down on the road and provoking continuous resistance to every attempt by the forces to remove them by using their shields alone. No use has ever been made of clobs or tear gas, which is also evident in the video and photographic material that has been posted on it, while two police officers were injured in the incidents. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that with regard to the other events of police interest that you are referring to in your timely question, I have been put in detail by replying from this Step to a relevant timely question dated 18 May 2020 by your colleague, MERA25 Mr Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Sacorafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u25	Minister, thank you very much for your kindness to answer. Of course, you are answering me for other completely different cases that I have not mentioned. I referred to specific circumstances. What I said from the outset is that there really are images that disguise everything you're saying right now. I am very sorry that you are being forced to answer a question personally addressed to the Minister. It is the third question, which I am asking on these matters, and I am forced to come back because I have not received any real answers, but also because the phenomena are multiplying. Finally, let me say, let there be a normal answer without communication. Not all are attackers, not savages, nor biscuits, nor traffickers, as the Minister himself has out publicly and has said. I'm so sorry to hear that. Mr Alvizatos himself, who is coordinator of the Informal Commission for the Control of Police Violence, notes the systematic call for the SADs, which you have said before, and other investigations in the police. And you obviously know that non-compliance with the rules and non-responsibility, if any, perpetuates unacceptable and dangerous practices. Unfortunately, incidents of asymmetrical use of police force would say that they are constantly growing in our country. This harms social cohesion, but also the image of the police itself. It seems, however, that these are issues which are probably not concerned with the Minister, the Minister responsible. And yet, Minister, the deliberate political coverage and encouragement of diversions is completely wrong and we hope that it will not have tragic effects. You yourself, who have been a senior officer, are sure, in my view, that you understand that the issue of police violence is also about day-to-day instructions, that is to say, the orders and the contents of the training that policemen must have. It is no accident that Mr Alvizatou's committee suggests that human rights should be taught much more systematically in police schools. The government must observe the Constitution and respect for human value is a fundamental obligation of the state. Constitutional legitimacy requires that no man's rights should be violated and that violence should not be used beyond what is strictly necessary. Even if you've got him on the ground, you've been cuffed by him, you can't hit him with his knee on his back. I hope you don't think these are fine letters for the exercise of police duties. The necessary measure goes beyond what I have said in my question as before. It is not so important, Minister, whether political and service leadership owes an apology for them to society. They must, however, review how their police action is being carried out. For example, it is certain that by design and decrees the lights were wiped out and men of the MATs launched the violent and pointless attack on the suspicious crowd in Saint George's square at Kipseli. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance a little. Ultimately, Minister, you yourself as an experienced senior officer how you face society's demand to reverse the unacceptable attitude of arbitrary and abusive violence? Does the Ministry really think that a tragic incident should happen to take the necessary steps then? And one more thing: do you really intend to risk every day with the dimension between police practice and the folk actor with the public on the legal sense? Closed up, I'm afraid these are dangerous toys. You should have learned it from our past, or even from the diversion of social normality that is currently evolving in America. That is why we urge you again to reconsider your position before it is too late, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u26	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u27	I sincerely want to assure you that the dominant pillar on which every planning and initiative of the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection is based is absolute respect for the legal order and the unequivocal commitment to the requirements of the Greek Constitution. Therefore, for all of us, political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the protection of constitutionally guaranteed personal and social rights of citizens is a key and unnegotiable priority. Mrs. Sacorafa, let go of the photo, we've seen it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u28	It's important to see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u29	I can show you too many of them at the expense of police officers for whom you have not found the time for one moment or another to express a sympathy. Please. I think impressions don't need to be made. At this point I take the opportunity to inform you and the national delegation of the training of police officers serving in DIAH, DIAHS and OPECE, including the thousands of five hundred newly recruited guards, which is currently under way. In the context of this training, the executives of these services shall be given the opportunity to acquire and add knowledge to a number of themes. For example, I mention some of them, which are the following: elements of Criminal Law, Criminal Code, elements of Constitutional Law, Human Rights, issues of police ethics and behaviour, management of stress, anger and violent behaviour, LGBTKI, feminists and groups of rights defenders, as well as Roma communities, immigration and religious communities. Our aim is to inspire the belief that their primary task is to respect the constitution and the laws of the state. This proves in practice our intentions, our strategy and also the questions you ask. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the urgent need to avoid generalisations, as, unfortunately, it has been attempted by the way in which this timely question was formulated. Every incident of police interest takes place under very specific conditions, different at a time. Everything that took place in Sepolis and Evripidou Street is very different from the incident in Tino and of course all these are quite different from the dramatic events that take place in the United States of America. The inability of some, as is manifestly perceived by this timely question, to understand the different historical and socio-political parameters in the United States of America and in the case of George Floyd, leads to highly erroneous simplifications and arbitrary conclusions from which we all have to abstain. Let's trust the Greek police. It respects the Constitution and always operates within the framework of constitutional legitimacy. At the same time, you should have the absolute certainty that they are controlled with due regard and, where responsibilities are found, they are imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u30	I didn't talk about trust, I talked about behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. We are now entering a group of questions where the Secretary of State for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, will answer. Because Mr. Spirtzis is not here, but Mr. Arsenis and Mr. Santorinios are here, we will proceed with the fourth with number 786/06-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2's West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restart the functioning of a child-surgery intensive of the "Agia Sophia" Hospital". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, this is a very well-known matter because it has dealt with the press. Once again we have the closure of the child-surgery clinic of "Agia Sophia", the unique child-surgery unit that Greece has in a children's hospital. This is very critical, because in the past it has cost lives. At the moment, we have a unit that is closed for no reason, as it is not possible to close the only child-patient surgery unit in the country and send the incidents to other hospitals that have no specialization in children, with the result that any child is facing any other need or has any other concomitant illness cannot be operated, that his life cannot be saved. Go all the incidents to "Ognaceo", at the same time as leaving the surgeons to "Saint Sophia". They are surgeon doctors who have been offered to go to the "Oncesion", too, to continue operating, and you deny it. On one occasion Mr. Kikilis also intervened to save the child: you sent it to 'Isao' and as the mother denounces - and we learned it from the parenting association lawyer - when he told you that 'yes, I am saved, but what about the rest of the children?' Mr Kikilia's answer was - if possible! - "My lady, take care of your child, do not worry about the rest of the children." This is the complaint we received from the parenting association lawyer. The woman's answer was - and rightly so - 'I am interested in, I am not asking for charity, I am not asking for charity, I am asking for my right to a public health system'. This public system calls on you to restore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, you have no proper information. Allow me to take things from the start. In order to address the pandemic, needs arising from the COVID pandemic -19 we decided a few months ago to convert the Paedo Heart Surgery Unit of the General Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia" into an intensive treatment unit for children of exclusive use for coronary incidents. What were we supposed to do? If we had a case in kids, didn't we have an intensive treatment unit? However, in no case did we leave uncovered children who had a child’s heart surgery. What did we do? We set out in cooperation with the "Cardiocratic Center" as the hospital to which all the circumstances would be referred under normal conditions would be hospitalized at the specific unit of the "Agia Sophia" Hospital. It had been done several times in the past and it had been a few months before the pandemic. I would remind you that since September and after 2019, reconstruction works were carried out due to a large donation to the "Agia Sophia" Hospital, the emergency and several regular incidents were referred to the "Odessa Heart Surgery Center". I should like to correct you for the "National" you said: it is the largest child-surgery center in Greece, as demonstrated by the number of interventions. We have therefore in no way left the need for paedophile surgery uncovered. We have ensured the safety of children and this solution has been the best possible. The Unesco - I repeat - is a top nursing institution in the country and so we are able to meet all needs. In this time period, with the coronary and about the end of May, the incidents that began again are the regular surgical incidents. The "Cardiocratic Center" was called upon to manage events that as a whole are about twenty-two. For these specific cases, the child - heart surgeons of "Agia Sophia" and "Onasius", following a scientific meeting held, set out the management plan of these regular events. From this plan the following emerged: Five children have already been surgery, three children did not have any direct intervention at that time, a child was evaluated and treated conservatively, eight children were programmed for surgical treatment at the "Cardiocratic Center" and five children were programmed first to undergo heart decay and depending on the results will be decided whether they will be operated at the "Cardiocratic Center Association". To supplement that either for insured children or uninsured children there is absolutely no cost for the interventions carried out at the "Cardiocratic Center". Therefore, Mr Arsenis, the return to normality, which is under way, will also result in a time when we return the heart surgery unit to the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital in its prevalence of pandemic function. We must ensure the health of all children, as well as those who are likely to suffer from the coronary. The battle with the pandemic is not over. We must be prepared, and that is why there is operational readiness at all levels and in all children's hospitals to deal with the hospital treatment of such incidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there is no excuse to deprive Greece of the only child-patient surgery centre there. Because that's what you're doing. There are other infrastructures, even at the Children's Hospital, which could serve this need, replacement infrastructure. You choose the only one, and your goal is to privatise. The aim is to have exactly what is currently being constructed in the "Oonesio", a new child-care centre, but without being able to serve all the other accompanying diseases. And you closed your eyes to the family for "Jasus". I'll tell you what's going on right now. Twenty - four children are waiting for a heart catheter, and at least three need emergency heart surgery and are in danger. During the last three months, the cardiac intensive unit hosted only a few hours of suspected coronary incidents, of which only one was intubated. The rest of the time was just empty, when the children were dying, because the heart - disease children need immediate surgery. It's not that a month is, and that's okay. It's okay. Apart from complaints of charity by the very woman you sent to "Isao", I will tell you that alternatively you can do, because our mood here is not the opposition, it is to find a solution for these children. Can be closed as ICU - COVID -19 this unit. Use another unit for this. To be used as a direct care unit (MAF), to remain the area of the heart surgery intensive unit as an alternative, without binding machinery, respirators, monitors, etc. for three beds, but for one, since there is no patient so far. And operate a heart surgery with two-three beds in the field of the MAF, as was done between September 2019 and March 2020 due to the renovation. Now you've completely closed it. Even because of the renovation, it was working. So if your goal is not to privatize, if there is no hidden scenario in this case, act immediately, save lives, reopen heart surgery at "Saint Sofia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Undersecretary, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, let me fix you first. Next to the Unitsio, no child cardiovascular surgery is built, a transplant center is built. I would also like to remind you that the "Cardiocratic Center" is financed by the public budget. Now, I'm afraid you're in danger. We have not let any human life be lost. Urgent incidents are dealt with in the “Onasio” and there is a scientific interface between the “Onasio” and the “Agia Sophia” in order to deal with the chronic incidents. And let the scientists of the two centers decide, seeing and judging the incidents, the treatment, the course that these children have to follow. As far as your proposal for conversions to the space is concerned, in order to refunction the child-patient surgery unit, I would remind you that the coronary is an infectious disease. Therefore, there should be no contact with other children and should be isolated. There's planning. We ensure both the health of children who are hospitalized and do not have COVID, and we are ready. There were no child cases with a coronary. But if there is one, what will happen? We have to deal with it. And because the battle with the pandemic is not over, our design continues, as we have been starting for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u39	Because I see Mr. Varzopoulou, Mr. Arsenis and Mr. Undersecretary, do you know how these problems will be solved? If in northern Greece, for example in Thessaloniki, a modern public pediatric hospital is built. Because, indeed, the whole territory actually has a pediatric hospital. This is the radical solution. The second question under number 780/5-6-2020 will now be discussed in the second half of the Eastern Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "The function of the Centre for Health, Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation of Keratia". Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, and it is a happy time that you are in the Bureau on this subject. Because, Minister, it is an effort launched in 2006 with Mr Priftis's donation to implement the building on a plot granted by the municipality in 2005 and has a basic condition: to operate the health centre for rehabilitation and recovery, since it has been built with all the necessary specifications. We all realise the need for our fellow citizens, who have come after a car accident and need restoration. In fact, we usually have a long time of treatment in these cases. We realise the very great need for a public health and rehabilitation structure. As you know, the building has been completed. There were six doctors working, and in fact the local community wanted to become a health centre autonomous there. The decisions have been made by the previous government, in order to operate the rehabilitation centre, but not only until now has not only worked the rehabilitation centre, with committed money since 2010, with both the settled and the framework, but also the resources for the staff provided by the respective LAG, but have been shut down in the pandemic and the six medical establishments that were in operation. We would therefore like you to answer the first question which is why the rehabilitation centre has not yet operated and when it is planned to function. And the second question is for what reasons did the six doctors stop working in the pandemic if they will reopen these and when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u41	Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Spirtzi, support and reinforcement of the National Health System is an absolute priority for this government. We are trying in every way to strengthen the structures of the National Health System and to provide more and more quality health services to all citizens. This is done in the case of the rehabilitation centre and I shall refer to this, after saying a few things about the wider area and the hints on your question about inadequate health coverage in the eastern Attica. In the eastern Attica at the moment, ten health centers operate, eleven doctorates, regional or local, associated with the above-mentioned health centres. All these structures are staffed with medical care and other personnel, providing the entire range of primary care services to the people of Eastern Attica. These structures were also working on your day, and then you obviously did not find any problem. In fact, I would remind you that you have done well and made some mergers of local doctors in health centres in order to strengthen health centres and provide better and more health services. As you well know, in the context of the measures taken to minimise the exposure of the population to the coronary and to halt the spread of the virus, following specific directives and in the planning of the Ministry, the Lavrio Health Centre expanded its operation on a 24-hour basis, with the possibility of serving patients with chronic illness and emergency, with the possibility of taking a sample of coronary in cases of symptoms. For the whole of the period of validity of the restrictive measures, the citizens of Keratea have been serving for cases outside the coronary in the hospitals of the Lavrio Health Center, while for suspected or confirmed incidents at the Calabia Health Center. Also, for the local office of Keratea, which is part of the Lavrio Health Center, it was planned to operate with six medical specialties, which adequately meets the needs of the citizens of the wider region. As far as the health care centre is concerned, I would remind you that on your days it did not function as it should have nor could it have been a contract because there was no physicist. There is indeed a programme agreement between the 1st Ministry of Health and the AEMY, whereby the two doctors of AEMY were included in the examination programme of the Lavrio Health Center, as were the doctors of the Lavrio Health Center who regularly carried out visits to Keratea. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The new management of AEMY in good time hired a physicist and completed the pending receipt and installation of machinery, instruments and equipment for the operation of the rehabilitation and recovery centre and recently with Law 4683 AEMY and the rehabilitation centre were integrated into the platform as of 2015 and approved by the Ministry of Health for recruitment of five other personnel and six medical staff posts. In fact, a few days ago, on 4 June, AEMY's administration invited the mayor and the anti-Mayor of the Laureate and other local players as well as the donor Mr. Priftis toured them to the fully equipped facilities of the restoration centre and presented the operating and development plan of the restoration centre, which was neglected in the previous years and in a few days, starting its operation, opening a new chapter for the provision of health services in the area because it is indeed a jewelry. At the same time, AEMY will also operate a polytherapy with the eight most physicians of specialties, complementary to the operation of the Lavrio Health Center, which is located in the rehabilitation and recovery centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you probably have no sense of what the previous government found in 2015. He found ten health centers, as you said, in East Attica with forty staff, with doctors, and left them with two hundred forty, with outdated medical equipment and machinery and, if you go today, he will see ten small hospitals. However, I asked you what were the reasons, which closed the six doctorates in the pandemic and in the eastern Attica - I am not implying it - you closed them and did not give an explanation of that. You have closed four other primary health structures in eastern Attica. We therefore want you to tell us whether you will reopen them and when they serve specific needs not only of the settlement of Keratea but also of surrounding settlements. I don't know about that you'll tell us if you'll make an independent health centre there. The second has to do with the rehab center. Obviously - you said it too - it was signed in July 2019 by the 1st Health Region and AEMY. It's been ten months. We'd like you to tell us a certain timeframe for the operation of the rehabilitation centre, not of the medical services alone, but of the rehabilitation centre. Believe me, there is no possibility of party exploitation. It's been a request for regions over a decade, 15 years than you understand. It is also a unanimous view of the Members of all its parties that the only public restoration structure in Eastern Attica should be publicly operated - and I imagine not only in eastern Attica - which will serve the citizens. So, ten months, fine, nothing happened. When will it be? When will it work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Contozamani, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Spirtzi, it has been ten months since this agreement was signed, but it has been five years since you were a government and there has been no doctor at the health centre. I told you concrete actions, concrete steps, which we have taken to ensure that the rehabilitation and recovery centre is able to function immediately, very soon, because we have strengthened it and with the medical staff and upgraded it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u47	You said a total of 12 people, six medical and six other specialties, paramedical, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u48	We completed the pending receipt and installation of machinery, instruments and other equipment from 2015. All the needs of the area in specialties are fully and adequately addressed and, of course, because of the coronary, there was a combination of forces in order to deal with incidents, which concern not only the coronary, but also our fellow citizens who had recourse to primary care services and who did not have a coronary. So we haven't booked anything. Our units function adequately and are fully staffed and meet the needs in all specialties in the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u49	Good. The question of the circle of petitions by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition Mr Nektarios Santorini to the Minister of Health will now be discussed: 'Immediately the need to strengthen the structures of the islands' health to deal with the COVID -19 pandemic.' Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your agony is also known for the islands. Minister, in the conditions of pandemic, it was the islands that were less affected, because there was an effort following a number of influxes of our own, but above all of the mayors, so that there would be a controlled transition to the islands so that the coronary would not be transmitted. However, in these circumstances we cannot continue this controlled transition to the islands, and it is certain that the large and small islands must, in particular, join the fight against survival through tourism. So the effort that had been made at the time was because all the islanders were anxious, since primary health care, health care centres, multi-powered medical services on the islands were not sufficiently staffed and in many cases had a lesser staff than we had left when we left the government. Therefore, this need to protect the islands, since primary health care did not exist in the design of the Ministry of Health, led to this need to limit the transition to the islands. But during the quarantine period we do not see any attempts to strengthen health on the islands, we do not see any strategic planning for the transport of any cases during the Krone period. It is characteristic that one transport capsule, which takes 12 hours as you know for disinfection, is not sufficient to add transport capsules, which have not yet been added, has had to be intervened by the South Aegean Region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why, Minister, what we want to ask you to do and find out is: What is the plan to support the islands' primary health care and hospitals on the islands? What is your design to provide adequate protection for doctors? What is your plan to examine the samples, which we will need several samples in the next period on the islands? And what is your design in order for there to be a rapid transfer of cases from the islands to the reference centres? Finally, several hospitals on the islands were not designated as reference centres. You know, it's not the same thing to be in Thessaly and just need two hours to be transferred to a reference hospital. It's very different. Why, then, have no more reference hospitals been designated on the islands? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u51	Good. Mr. Undersecretary, here's the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Santorinier, and a few days after the question you asked me, I would say the same thing to most of the answer. Why? Since the beginning of the pandemic, our planning has been for the whole of the territory, all the regions of the country, all the inhabitants of the country, and of course it also included the island regions. The Ministry of Health with the National Agency for Public Health and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection were the pillars on which this design was based, based on a specific plan to ensure all the coronary treatment scenarios. We've been lucky and since the beginning of the pandemic so far we've managed not to have cases on the islands, we've been able to get out intact. And since the beginning of the pandemic we have tried and managed to strengthen both the infrastructure in island Greece and the human potential and the adequacy of the materials. There is currently more staff in these structures, but also more personal protection, and of course there is also the strategic reserve in the country in personal protection and health care, in order to deal with possible cases during the summer season with a view to the start of the tourist season. Of course, like then, a few months ago, today, there are bound beds all summer exclusively for coronary in the hospitals of island Greece, which are interconnected with the reference centres in Athens. Whatever was then, it's true now. At one point in your question, you are talking about the state's obligation to strengthen the areas. I told you that this obligation has been fully met. We have not calculated resources - something we have stressed - we have legislated with what we should have directly at our disposal and had in our design since the beginning of primary health care. Fortunately, he did not need primary health care to enter the battle of the coronary. We have foreseen strengthening the structures of primary health care. Today we have tools and tools, such as home visits and the possibility of private doctors' contracts with the health system, in order at primary level and in the hospitals of the country to deal with any problems that will arise from Coronovirus outbreaks, while we will continue to strengthen the system in both material and human resources and equipment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, may I continue or say the rest in my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u53	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the plan for the health coverage of our islands and for dealing with possible cases is concerned, I would like to say once again that it is complete and sufficient and is complemented even more by new data in relation to our original design. The availability of beds is four hundred forty-six single beds with the ability to exceed six hundred fifty if necessary. There are committed intensive treatment beds with the possibility of increasing, with the approval of a thousand hundred recruitments of subsidiary, medical, nursing and others, of which five hundred and eighty-five have already been implemented by recruitment and service. We are in agreement and contact with the relevant medical clubs, in order to find doctors in specialties that we need, so that during the summer months they will collide with the system, in order to meet the increased needs of the health system and of course we will also make use of private doctors present on every island. In addition, there is a plan for movements of permanent medical staff of various specialities from mainland health structures on the islands, while there are specific clinics and hospitals in mainland Greece that are interconnected with the structures of the islands, in order to cooperate, scientific interconnect and move staff to meet all needs. As far as the control of samples is concerned, our aim is to identify quickly and reliablely, as we have done so far. And we did this in combination with the following ways: by reducing as far as possible the required transport of samples, we have built a network where samples will be taken and transferred to the processing points of these samples, strengthening the islands with small analysts and transporting samples to centrally selected laboratories, such as the National Center for Haemorrhage. Our project will be presented in the next few days. And all this, of course, by making use of the possibilities of the COVID registry for faster and more reliable recording.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u55	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u56	The mobile teams of the National Public Health Agency have already started targeted excursions on the islands supported by local health centers, and of course there is a specific plan for aerospace and waterways from the islands. At this point, I would like to remind the House of something we have said before, the capsules available to the National Emergency Centre will be ten this month.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u57	Minister, I can't give you any more time. We won't say the whole program every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u58	I'm closing, Mr. President. Therefore, full geographical coverage of island and remote areas has been ensured with specific programming and planning, and it is worth saying at this point that the EAW has also completed a training programme for simulation of this design and steps of the National Direct Aid Centre have already visited islands and continue in remote areas, making the required monitoring of operational preparedness of health units. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u59	Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if on 26 March I asked my question you said that the whole country, and especially island Greece, is within the planning of the coronary, you would probably lie to me, because you are telling me that now ten capsules will be reached, now you are talking to me about waterway transport. We hope that the three floating ambulances will come in the summer. It is a supply made during the period of our own governance by the INTERREG programme with cooperation of the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Health. So, to know exactly what we're saying, don't say that you've now brought the three floating ambulances. In fact, I can tell you which programme it was. You said the staff were more. Until the day before yesterday, there was an island that had a loan doctor and was transferred from an island to an island. I don't want to mention the island for obvious reasons. All right, the island was strengthened. Last year he had two doctors and this year he has one. So where is most of the staff? Why haven't the mayors and the islanders seen it? Because really when we hear about more staff, I would love to see it and feel safe. And since we are talking about security - and it is a happy time that the Minister of Tourism has just entered the Chamber - this analysis, this risk assessment in a low, moderate and high, presented by the Minister of Tourism, on the dangers of the islands, you know that? Did you make this risk assessment? Because, frankly, you do the risk asset to support the islands, but hide it and not make it fun and become a map on the channels, it is defamation for the islands. And today we do not need defamation for the islands. And I come to one final question, since I have referred to the measures, the health protocols and the 'Safety First' to be implemented. You told us about home visits and private doctors' contracts, which could go to see their patients at home. Minister, you know that in most islands we have a rural doctor. Which private doctors are you talking about? And in most of these islands, they have to have hotel units and these hotel units, based on health protocols, should have a partner doctor. Question: Where will this partner doctor be found on these smaller islands so that these units can function? Or did we ever forget about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Contozamanis, you will answer your question. If Mr Theocharis then wants to reply to the incidental point raised by Mr Santorini, I will give him more time to answer. You can stay to hear the answer. So you, Mr. Contozamanis, respond to your house. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Santorinier, I was clear in my prototype of initial planning and the adjustments that are being made to meet the needs of the summer season in view of the start of the tourist season. We have strengthened staff, you can see the relevant decisions in "DENMARKING", we have also provided relevant information in the Minutes of the Parliament and we have designed in such a way that there is a direct response to any need to cross-check and cover all needs in medical services. Where there are difficulties in finding qualified doctors or on some islands if a doctor needs to go, as I have told you, there is an interconnection between these islands with the major hospitals in Athens and specific clinics are interconnected both scientifically and functionally with the islands and provide the necessary staff so that no island area of the country is left uncovered in the summer. So, our plan is about full health coverage and a direct response to any incident. We have strengthened our islands, we have ensured the adequacy of personal protective equipment and sanitary material throughout the island Greece, we have increased the ability to carry out mass molecular controls, we have a specific sample transfer plan and increased facilities for airborne and floating spaces. We believe that everything will flow smoothly and as we have done so far, then we will have a successful development throughout the summer. We are optimistic, but above all we are ready more than ever and that gives us the confidence that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u63	We now move on to the debate on the last question today, in the second, with number 783/5-6-2020, a topical question from the second parliamentary group in Athens, Mer25 Mr Angelikos Adamopoulos, to the Minister of Tourism, who is present and will answer, on the subject: “Direct award of a line of 32 million euro to the MARKETING GREECE”. Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are already aware of the major issue that has arisen over the last few days concerning the direct delegation by the Government by using a controversial article, Article 69 of the Act of Legislation of 13 April. In relation to the direct award of the tourist advertising of Greece by the government to the company MARKETING GREECE for a price of EUR 32 million, this is a company set up by the Greek Chamber of Hotels and by the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises, in which, of course, the voice of small and medium-sized business is completely absent. Although it is said - it has been answered by the government - that this is a non-profit company, it is, however, shown in its statute as an anonymous company, i.e. a profitable company. The direct award was made by way of the Public Procurement Act, as well as bypassing the EOT itself, which, as we all know, had brought very positive results to the country's tourist promotion, and this is why, due to the privileged treatment of MARKETING GREECE, they have already resigned four members of the EOT's Board of Directors. So we wonder how this direct assignment, against such a large price, has to offer added value to the tourist projection of the country which already appears as a low-risk country, a safe country for the tourist. He has nothing to compete with the rest of the countries in anything. On the other hand, if the Government really wanted to strengthen the tourism product, it could channel this amount into financing the wage costs of small and medium-sized hotel businesses and the relief of thousands of workers currently affected by the coronary and recent government measures. I had also tabled a question on this, where I made specific proposals from Mera25 to strengthen tourism. The government has not taken these into account so far. On the contrary, its measures have been judged to be anemical and clandestine. So what exactly are the reasons instead of channelling the aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and supporting workers into this direct delegation by means of opaque procedures? On what criteria and with which expected benefits did you take this decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr Santorini, you have four minutes to answer Mr Santorini's remark. If you want, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u66	Of course I do, Mr President. You know very well how topical this issue was, so I'm gonna need more time, I'm telling you in advance. I think, however, that it is worth answering within Parliament. Mr Santorinios is usually careful in his criticism and does not make suggestions, for example in the last bill by Mr. Syrmalenios, who told us that we need to remove positions from the planes, so that so many tourists do not come to our country. He's usually careful! I hope that your fellow citizens in the islands, Mr Santorinier, who are waiting to see the strengthening of health structures, will not misunderstand - I am not mistaken, I know that you are thinking of it - as you say. Our country from the Ministry of Health has been strengthened and strengthened - the relevant announcements will be made tomorrow - at every tourist destination. Each tourist destination, the last island to the center of Athens will have the possibility of operational treatment of each case. Every citizen in this country and every guest will know and need to know that he is safe. All the necessary aid is made and these islands which really need no problem during the tourist season. You know, Mr Santorinier, well or badly - I know that you will not like it, but that is the reality - the Government of the New Democracy - as much as you "strike" it does not support the health system and we have the pleasure of having here a former Minister of Health chairing today - is that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has strengthened the National Health System more than ever. It took it worse during the crisis than it brings today and I can assure you that this year's health system, health structures on our islands, at strong tourist destinations, will be in the best possible condition that they could be. So no one is afraid of the National Health System and no matter what. I would now like to come to the question that I have mixed feelings about. Unfortunately, it is a pity that we are at this moment in a situation where the Greek Parliament comes and deals with make news. You're carried away. Usually your party's criticism - and I have lived in close proximity, is here your colleague with whom we had a lot of discussions in the recent bill, but also the rapporteur - is careful and constructive. But when we deal with make news about 32 million, it is not even all the EOT's budget, and I also put down a document from the EOT saying that there is no such delegation, and it is slanderously those figures that are circulating. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is where we heard about Croatia. We took the beach from Marmari and took it to Croatia. Until it was heard that the EOZ agreement signed yesterday won't be signed because of our announcements. What else are we gonna hear? It's a pity you've been misled, but it's also a chance to get these into place. It's worthless, really worthless speech, but in any case we'll be here to answer even to the most illusionable. Now, I will answer very specifically the questions which are raised and which are very important. The first question we have been accused of is whether we are giving it to a private company. Is it MARKETING GREECE finally a private company? No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a private company. MARKETING GREECE was built by law of the Greek State, under Article 187 of Law 4070. This article provided that the State would be a shareholder of 30%. It was therefore a company that would join forces in the private and public sectors to promote more efficient and complementaryly the promotion of the country. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In practice, just so that we do not get her into the scratches of bureaucracy and are as weak as it is, because of bureaucratic claws, to implement its purpose, the public did not put the money into MARKETING GREECE. Instead of the government, he broke into the U.S. Shareholder. The HR is not a private person, it is a legal person governed by public law. He is the institutional adviser of the government, the Minister of Tourism, on tourism issues and he is the main shareholder. The company has a second shareholder of SETE, a social partner and it is institutionalised by law. So it's not a private company, it's not a advertising company. There is no such matter. I'm tabling its statutes in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In its statutes, it states that it is intended to develop and implement programmes for the promotion and promotion of the country as a whole, as well as for advertising specific tourist destinations. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a non-profit company in practice. The fact that they wanted to keep it flexible so that they could make the promotion in the most effective way, is not bad, and it is certainly not the reason to mistreat. Now we have a second question, since we put this aside. Thank you again, Mr President, for it is very important to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u67	Because it's timely, I leave it, but with what you're about to say, you'll close. Mrs Adamopoulou will also be treated accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u68	I get it. I shall respond to the second point and leave the other two for my dentistry, so that we do not delay and listen to my dear colleague. The second question is that the EOT is weakened. There is no more false claim than the weakening of the EOT. I'm telling you again, you've been lured by the miserable, colourless, immoral criticism SYRIZA makes. There is no falseer claim, which comes from those who with Law 4412 weakened the EOT. SYRIZA with the Spirtzi law has completely weakened the EOT. We have set up a committee with the Public Procurement Authority, with the lawyers of the EOT, with the lawyers of our Ministry, so that we can see the whole framework of the EOT and within the European framework as flexible as possible. That's what we're doing. I am tabling the recommendation from the Committee on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And do you know what the Legal Adviser told us at the first meeting of this committee, which we gave the timetables and objectives? He told us it was a pity that we operated under this regime. And Spain's ‘MARKETING GREECE’, which I say again is the private sector's EOT, is not a advertising company, it is being financed directly by the State. The state gives direct grant money to manage Spain's SETE to promote the country. We are also sitting here for reasons of micro-party criticism and making this kind of confrontation. It's really sad. Respecting the president and the time, I will continue with the other questions in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u69	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor. If you need a little more time, you'll have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I would like to make it quite clear that I am not led by any small political controversy between the new Republic and SYRIZA. I have a very own perception, I've studied. As to the fact that it's a make news, I will invite you to answer me because the members of the board of directors of the EOT have resigned, since the EOT has not been overrun. EOT has even demonstrated that it was particularly effective in the country's tourist promotion, and I would remind you that a specific EOT tourist campaign in 2018, called ‘365 Day Destination’, was declared the best advertising campaign worldwide for 2018. Since the EOT is not bypassed, please answer me why the members of the board of directors have resigned and why even the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts has decided that this direct award is contrary to the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement Act is well known to us that it is governed by specific principles of transparency, objectivity, control of services and products, in particular for direct awards - the limit is EUR 20,000 - selection and award criteria. It is governed by general principles of the rule of law, which are currently being violated and the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts has itself decided. And, of course, I do not repeat that the members of the board of directors have resigned. Since it's all fast news, explain to me how the area given by the EOT itself is justified. You are telling me that MARKETING GREECE is not profitable. How is the statute referred to as a public limited company? As for the purposes, which you are telling me is the promotion of the country in general, this does not make the company non-profit. Instead, to project the country, it means that its purposes are profitable, they are not charity. Where and where does it result from the statutes that it is not profitable? It is obvious that the EOT is weakened. I have to testify, and I have to write about it. Indeed, it is rumoured - something I do not see myself - that MARKETING GREECE, even if it is not profitable, is working with private companies, where the promotion of the tourist product is then entrusted, just to circumvent the competition and the public procurement law. I now come to the very crucial issue of EUR 32 million. In the end, the direct award was made against what price? It is also a question. I will submit to the practical memos which have specifically submitted forty-five workers' unions in hotels and foodism. They are strongly protesting about impoverishment and poverty, the fact that they are required by October with the new measures by the government to live up to EUR 400 to EUR 500 per month and EUR 9 per day. I have a memorandum and a resolution from the hotel officials of the 'EVA' and 'IMPERIAL' hotels. It's really tragic. Instead of this money, which is the money of the taxpayer, the public, being channelled towards alleviating small and medium-sized enterprises and workers, instead of channelling the necessary resources, national and Community funds to support those people who are in need of a swamp of work with massive redundancies, rather than the government listening to their requests, in order to take active measures immediately, we are channeling 32 million to a advertising spot. I would even like to raise it with regard to its advertising side, because it is very controversial that it leaves a message. The message leaves even shadows of mistrust and confusion among the public, because what is ultimately projected is that it is not necessary for someone to come to Greece to enjoy the Greek summer, because the Greek summer is a state of mind. It's a matter of perception, visual. The spot even has a moto that we would say is on the verge of stealing from a cosmetics company. Does the tourist want to come to Greece, or does he not want to? Because there are also suspicions that this whole campaign serves the large hotel groups, which do not have much prerogative to open up their hotels. It's enough for them to open up some of them to cover the fullness. Those who ultimately pay it, those who are harming and harming themselves are the small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and workers who are poor in order to disperse public money literally into unnecessary advertising, which only the tourist product of Greece does not show, contrary to the Turkish advertising spot. I invite you to see it. It does not look undeterminedly, so, a beach, which could be anywhere, but it projectes the sights themselves, which are on the coast of Asia Minor, with local names and sites in particular. Did we find this spot to show off with such a superstition? Well, we invite you and the Ministry of Labour to think very seriously about the workers, the small and medium-sized ones, to withdraw this provision and cancel this direct assignment. To deal with Greece's tourism product exclusively, in order not to create these internal disputes that have arisen and to deal with the workers. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor. Because we have the education bill, please take your time into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I know that and I will finish as soon as I can. Your tolerance is important at the moment, the Greek people must be informed. Mrs. Adamopoulou, I tried to be as kind as I can. You didn't want to. If you continue and insist on talking about 32 million you are completely confused. It is clear that you are confused by the fact that you do not even know that the Ministry of Labour has set a term in every business to not be able to lay off a single worker and stop from 18 March, if I remember correctly, when this term was set, all redundancies in business. So, if you don't understand these basics, how will you proceed to others that are complicated? I say this to end this thing, don't keep saying, you're mocking the Greek people. All of the EOT's advertising budget is just over 30 million. He doesn't have to give 32. Review me "Where did you get the 23 million, the 22 million that SYRIZA gave, and you did 30, you had to do 60, why did you only give so little?" To listen to the criticism, it's a reasonable criticism. Why don't you tell me 32 billion? If you want to say random figures, say 32 billion, what we will get from the European Union. Please do not continue with that logic. EOT was not weakened and it's obvious and I proved it. Besides, EOT makes the contract. Now if we accuse MARKETING GREECE of working with private individuals, and EOT is working with private individuals, it does not have an internal advertising company. The strategy makes it the Ministry, the EOT implements it, makes contracts, awards private corporations, make stands, do commercials, etc. Now, there's no opacity. If you bothered to enter the EOT site, you would see that for the "Greece From Home" platform the contract is 99 thousand euros. That's it. So much is the chaotic difference between reality and what you come to say to mislead the Greek people. Don't do it again. For your own protection, I'm telling you. With regard to opacity, we cannot be accused of opacity when Mrs Koudoura tried to pass an amendment in 2016, which she withdrew when the General Accounting Office of the State said you can do without the amendment when she tried to make a cross-appeal of over 1 million and the Single Independent Public Contract Authority stopped it. And I'm filing both documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We cannot talk of opacity when the EOT is constantly doing some - not all - some direct assignments, when there are special conditions, because at the moment Greek tourism is at point zero. I, too, said at the first moment that our country could not afford to go split and with broken powers, but to advertise the private sector, but to advertise the public, but the regions. For these three months - and the amendment was mentioned in three months, namely, the expiry date - the country will go together. And we did have the right to do so. Because this campaign was given to the EOT, it was made by the private sector, it was paid by the private sector, and if we wanted to do opaque procedures, there are the opaque processes in production, which you cannot easily value, so the money can be wasted. This campaign was built and was directly donated to the EOT, without rights. Should we blame the MARKETING GREECE, which is directly entrusted to the EOT and gives it the money? Because he actually gives him money, he gives him this creative job. The private sector stands at the height of the circumstances, and will open up and want to bring tourists. Where and how far do I hear a accusation that they don't want to come to tourism? There's nothing left of what you said. This campaign was made by the private sector. He's working with the EOT. It is donated without rights and the EOT will implement the media plan. The promotion plan for this campaign will be implemented by the EOT, to the extent that the EOT can implement it, with the institutional framework of L.4412 and with the lack of a framework - and that is why I told you that it is very important that this committee we did so that we could give the EOT power - the EOT cannot advertise our country in fasbul, it cannot do algorithm, programmatic, the so-called programme of advertising. This cannot be done and therefore the country is absent from where it should have been. That is why we are working with the EOT, I say again, in the private sector, to come and do what we cannot do. European rules cannot make a contract with an American company such as Facebook. So it will come, and it will not be absent in our country, we will not leave the country out of the markets because you want to make your criticism. One last thing, so I won't be late. That's what's happened before. The cooperation of the EOT with MARKETING GREECE took place on SYRIZA twice, and in 2015 and 2019, and the awards you say got the "Oh My Greece", i.e. the product of the cooperation of MARKETING GREECE, which created it and again gave it full rights. Here we have three award points at MARKETING GREECE, to be advertised in 'GOOGLE', 'TRIPADVISOR', 'YAHO' and various other tools. And with these assignments, this cooperation has been re-established. The difference is, do you know what it is? That we are transparent, that I stand here before the Greek people and say that we will work together for the good of the country. That's the only difference that happened in the past. In the past, there was a discrepancy. Now it's all in the light. I submit the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As to whether there is a bypass or not, there is no bypass. The Management Board of the EOT shall decide. The fact that some wanted to have political coverage, so that no decision was taken before the House, is another matter. But this is a central government decision, public-private cooperation. In this we will have a chaos away forever, but the Greek people have voted for the New Democracy to implement its election programme. So go to the election programme and see that this kind of cooperation is within the election programme of the New Democracy and would therefore constitute infidelity to the Greek people who voted for New Democracy precisely to implement this programme if we did not. So we won't do that, and if others are used to being politicised with fucking blokes, and others calling for election and others to do so, we are not such a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u73	I, because for the past twenty years I have been attending the humble but beautiful Marble of southern Evia I recommend you all go and see both Marmari and the beach of this particular island. We move on to the last question, the third with number 784-5-6-2020. topical question for second-cycle MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "Direct removal of mobile antenna at the border of the municipalities of Peristeri and Ilio". The present Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. Gregory Zarifopoulopoulos. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 19 May the municipal council of the Municipality of Ilio unanimously called for the removal of the mobile antenna, which is located at 17 Syros Street, on the administrative limits of Peristeri, in fact at the border with Illion. Citizens of both municipalities protest. And they protest against a decision taken in the middle of a coronary and a situation that went in the middle of a coronary. The point is that the EBRD can approve such spatial locations without the decisions of the competent bodies having been preceded. This, in fact, puts in doubt, as the decision of the Citizens' Counsellor had already been made, its role as a preventive mechanism for protecting the environment and the health of citizens. Here we have a law which, while prohibiting the installation of antennas in schools, kindergartens, etc., allows next door to them, at distances which are smaller than necessary for the safety limits. Also, what is very important is that while it forbids new children's playgrounds from being spaced close to phone antennas, the law does not prohibit these antennas from being installed where there are children's joys. In this particular case, for the specific antenna, we have within a hundred feet of the 36th Primary School of Peristeri, near the 3rd General High School of Ilio and very close to the parks where children play. So we ask you two things: firstly, to stop this situation, to withdraw this licence, to abolish and, secondly, to change the legal framework for what is unreasonable, to streamline it. In other words, we cannot prevent parks from being spaced near antennas and from banning antennas near the existing parks. There is obviously a contradiction here, which is prejudicial to public health, and it needs to be changed. We are also asking you to tell us whether critical on-the-spot measurements have been made for the ESA seven months since the licence was issued, and if not, why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, your question gives me the opportunity to address this House and the citizens and to try to explain some things, as there is ignorance in this matter. Unfortunately, many exploit this ignorance and read on the Internet and on the social media many interesting things. There is a very serious misinformation. So talk about antenna electromagnetic radiation emissions. Indeed, mobile phone antennas emit electromagnetic radiation, such as electromagnetic radiation, and too many devices we all have in our home, the mobile phone that you probably have next to you, the wireless phones, the computer, the television, the vacuum cleaner. All these devices emit electromagnetic radiation. This electromagnetic radiation is measured, we can measure it. There are international organisations that do just that. They're counting the emission levels and setting some limits. There are now thousands of studies internationally, which have done just that. They have tried to see - I am trying to say them as simple as possible - what these levels of electromagnetic radiation emission are where there is a risk to public health. So this Agency - ICNIRP - has set such a limit on emissions from mobile telephony antennas and there is a recommendation from the European Union to the Member States. So let's say that this limit has been set at a hundred. Here I say that this threshold is not something that has been arbitrarily set. As I said earlier, it is the result of many studies. And in these studies, in addition, a safety factor has also entered, about fifty, just to cover every case, even the most vulnerable population groups, pregnant women, children and elderly. On that, then, we here in the country have gone even tighter. That is, a hundred, recommended by the European Union, we have taken it down to seventy. In other words, we allow antennas to emit up to seventy and not up to one hundred. And that limit within the urban fabric, precisely because we have schools, parks, nursing homes, hospitals, nursery stations, we've downloaded it down to sixty. And that has been happening for many years. We have adopted this as a state since 2000. And we've done it no because there were some extra scientific data on schools. If nothing else, if you want to make simple calculations, children spend more time at home than at school and especially younger children even more. But, based on the precautionary principle, we are protecting the population even more. So, a limit to a hundred of the institutionalised international bodies with very high safety rates, a limit to us at seventy, but within the urban fabric in sixty. We are among the countries, internationally, with the low limits. Where do we count, now, if it's the antenna in sixty or seventy? We don't even count it where there's social life where they live. We counted it on the web almost. We measure it at the most burdensome point, where in almost 100% of cases this point is not even accessible from the world. That's where we're going and we're doing control. What checks now? While we are in Europe's pigs on most of the issues of Digital Governance and Technology, in this area we are in the first positions internationally. We are the country that makes most controls on these lower limits that we have established. I will mention specific numbers: If we had more than ten thousand five hundred antennas throughout the territory in 2018, the Greek Atomic Energy Commission is mandatory to control 20% of these antennas. In 2019 more than two thousand such antennas were checked. How many found above the limit, our limit, 70 percent? Of the two thousand hundred and two antennas checked, four found above this limit. How many of these four were in the urban fabric in the cities? None. All four were in so-called “arrow parks” except urban tissue. I would like to say, therefore, that we are in one of the safest countries in terms of antenna emission levels. As far as the specific antenna is concerned now, which you refer to in your question, the procedure has been followed. There was a study by the provider. The study was evaluated by the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. The ‘green light’ was given to follow the remainder of the process and the antenna to be licensed by the EBT. The antenna is placed. It's totally symptomical when it was placed. The approvals had already come from 2019 and from the Greek Atomic Energy Commission and from the EMCDDA. And now this particular antenna is on the list of antennas to be measured, which will be checked within the annual checks of the EAEC, this 20% of the antennas. It will therefore be checked, and if it is found that this antenna emits above the 60% limit - because it is an antenna within the urban fabric, near the schools as you said - then the relevant procedure will be followed again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u77	All right, you've been spying. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u79	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, obviously, it plays a role that the antenna will be placed. And with the reactions of residents, it is obvious that the period of coronary and curfew was chosen. Now, what is crucial here - and you have not answered this question at all at all - is why, in fact, there are strict limits to the location of children's playgrounds and other facilities close to antennas, there is no corresponding limit to the exclusion of antennas from these spaces? Why do we rule out placing the children's joys, but not the antennas? If there's been a mistake, make it clear. We read this in legislation. So we are asking you to change this institutional framework, to have substantial protection for the children who are in schools and the playgrounds. As a protection threshold, the law sets these three hundred measures, we will point out that it is precisely in this case that we do not respect the corresponding limits that we would ask for. We have a hundred meters away from the 36th Municipal School of Peristeri and near it is the 3rd General High School of Ilio, as well as the parks in the area. The question here is very simple. You say that even in general residence children are affected and spend more time. In schools we know it's definitely there kids, surely it's every day at day and for too many hours, so that's where the impact is focused. So, a law should be made, where we don't ask it to be different, but the Citizen's Counselor. I will read to you a little bit from the text that scientific research reveals serious evidence of harm to the human body and that the distance to safe exposure limits is not sufficient, as it needs to adopt additional protective measures to prevent suspected risks, based on the precautionary principle, which you also invoke, but the law is not used in practice and does not respect. With regard to hazard limits, they are of relative value as the study of electromagnetic radiation of the antenna, the content of which is limited and is limited to minimum requirements, such as exclusion of public access to installations and does not cover the examination of the potential effects on health from the installation and operation of the antenna. It refers to the fact that in practice there is an exclusion of public access to the antenna, so incompetent control by the public and ends by saying that precisely in the way decisions are taken, its use as a preventive mechanism for protecting the environment and health from the electromagnetic radiation emitted by the antenna is questionable. These are the ones to which you need to answer, change, and on this basis also cancel the installation of a specific antenna.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I thought that I was very clear in my protology, in terms of the limits we have introduced, which are one of the lowest in the world and in terms of the controls we are doing, we are in the first place in the world in number. From there, you are talking about a legislative framework and your timely question is based on a legislative framework that you are referring to, but which I will inform you that it has been repealed, replaced. In particular, Law No 236 of 1979, as well as Article 30 of Law No 4070/2012, has been updated. The institutional framework is changing. If necessary, if there are new data, international data, there we will be happy to see this data and listen to the experts, as the government does in total, in order to see whether we need to change the institutional limit. Here too, I would like to say to the Greek citizens that these limits, the percentage I said earlier, are an indicative limit that the European Union recommends to the states. Some states consider this to be too low. So, as we have introduced a more stringent limit to seventy and sixty, some other states, advanced states, the Netherlands is one of them, and more than a hundred have been institutionalised. I repeat, therefore, that we are also a very safe country on this issue. From there on, I say again that the procedure was followed in accordance with the law. The specific antenna will be measured. He's entered the list of antennas to be measured. Continuingly, the part of these three hundred is referred to in Article 2 of Law 28492 of 2009, which has also been replaced by a ministerial decision, 48165 of 2009. There can be antennas within the three hundred meters period, provided these antennas emitting up to 60% of the limit. That is what the law says, this is what the Greek Committee on Atomic Energy, which, by the way, does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Digital Governance. That is the principle that controls radiation levels and I have mentioned the results. Furthermore, because as a government as a whole - and I think I do not need to talk more about it, the results prove it - we put the health and life of citizens, beyond all that, of the institutional framework, we also help the Greek Committee on Atomic Energy with mobile units, with mobile vans, which any municipality can ask for. Recently requested the Municipality of Alimos, the Municipality of Agia Paraskevi and the Municipality of Katerini. We have also addressed the regions. Therefore, any municipality can take some of these vans and make its own measurements and the Greek Atomic Energy Commission can also pay for the maintenance and security of the entire process. So there are the tools. It is of the utmost importance to protect the health of the citizens. We do, prove it and we will continue to do it. There is no question at this moment about the institutional framework. If there is new data, we will be happy to discuss it and assess it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u83	The sitting of parliamentary control is closed. Before entering the legislative work, instead of taking the compulsory health break a while later, we are now doing so. So, at 11.45 p.m., I would ask the rapporteurs, the parliamentary representatives and the speakers to be in the House to start legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. WORKING WORKING WORK Continue the debate on the articles, amendments and the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs of the School and other provisions. In addition to the roll-call vote tabled yesterday by the JRC and announced, a roll-call vote has been tabled, and I quote, by SYRIZA: "Mr President, on the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members who sign this request request request that we hold a roll-call vote on Articles 5, 9, 50, 68, 70, 73, 82, 96, 97 and 98 of the School Upgrade and other provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". I would point out that the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Details will be given to the parliamentary groups. But the start of the roll-call vote is the twelfth meridian tomorrow, so that there is no gap from now. Today's sitting will discuss the articles and amendments of the draft law as one unity. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u85	The House agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteurs and the special speakers, I give the floor to the Minister, who wants something to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I will put forward legislative improvements and I would like to refer to them. We predict that in order to be a candidate for the post of the dean or the rector it may not have spent more than two terms in the office of the dean or three sums in the office of dean and anti-prof. Secondly, a distortion is corrected. The distortion is as follows: the term for the budgets was four years. This has been applied and most of the budgets are currently in office for four years. With a law changed by the previous government, few of these prefectures have a three-year term. We are therefore correcting this distortion. The new law provides for a four-year term within the framework of each institution's four-year programming and provides that for all, the term is extended until four academic years. So the majority of the Members of this House have four years in any case. So this distortion is corrected because it had broke through this regime of the previous government, and there is an extension of term for a four-year term, as provided for in the new legislative regime. In the Minutes, I am making the legislative improvements and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. Before I begin to call on the rapporteurs to take a step forward and say it - and I say it at the outset - that we should be precise in time. Since yesterday there has been a proposal for the rapporteurs to have a small tolerance, you all know, you are experienced, that the debate on the articles has eight minutes for all. For the rapporteurs, the Bureau will give tolerance, although it will write eight minutes by ten minutes. But in ten minutes, we'll be done. I say this because they are attending the meeting and colleagues that there was a detailed position in principle yesterday. Today we should be consistent in time because apart from the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives are also forty colleagues. As I am not aware, there will also be statements from the Heads of State or Government. This means that the use of time today should be accurate to every colleague. And my fellow speakers on the articles have eight minutes, I would clarify that, and not seven. There will be no tolerance. The warning in the seventh minute, which is heard by the bell, will also be the end of the eighth. I'm sorry, I'm not strict, but today there must be strict compliance with time. We are starting with the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Andrianos. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first position, I have had the opportunity, in particular, to refer to the general approach, logic and philosophy of this bill, but also to its fundamental differences from the respective approach of the previous government. I have had the opportunity to refer to the main objectives. It is a bill which, as I said yesterday, is inspired by a single logic, it is no surprise that it was already well known from the New Democracy government's programme and starts from the school to the university. It serves above all the quality of education, social mobility, strengthening the autonomy of educational units, rewarding creativity, initiative, conscientiousness and hard work. The first part shall include provisions on primary and secondary education and lifelong learning structured in four sub-funds. The first of these chapters therefore introduces changes to the school programme. With Article 1, new thematics have been introduced, since next school year, in the mandatory programme of nursery, primary and gymnastics that make use of experiential learning, to cultivate mild skills, life skills and technology and science skills in children. In the context of the four thematic cycles (Evil, Environment, Social Conscience and Responsibility, Creative Thought and Initiative) individual themes are developed, appropriately organised by age and educational levels that include volunteering, ecological awareness, road safety, prevention of dependency, entrepreneurship, sexual education, prevention and protection against natural disasters, mutual respect and diversity, robotics and new technologies. These are issues that are crucial to the life of tomorrow's citizens and cultivate valuable soft skills in a way that is scientific and pedagogical. Against the rough, fragmented and fully prepared thematic week of the SYRIZA government, the current Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, the current government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis dared to proceed with this step that the former hesitantly hesitate to take. With Articles 2 and 3, there is a pilot introduction to the kindergarten programme, the contact of students with English and the teaching of English in primary school is strengthened. The pedagogical benefit of this move is already perceived by the vast majority of citizens. Even for those who are disillusioned, however, the data on the scientific research presented by the Minister, as well as the positive examples of the fourteen European countries where the familiarity of children with a foreign language is already being applied from pre-school age, are dissociating any doubts. However, it is certain that no one is convinced of the successive and foreign positions on the issue of CSR, which initially argued that the countries - three in particular - which implement this measure are few. He then questioned his pedagogical benefits and talked about a conspiracy to serve American interests. Articles 4 and 5 increase from four to seven the written courses in high school. The conditions for promotion and dismissal are streamlined: '10' graduation base in each lesson or '13' on average, up to four courses in September, and June's second exam. The classification of pupils' conduct in secondary education degrees is also restored. This is an extremely symbolic measure, but also a substantial pedagogical measure, as it contributes to a more effective link to the consciousness of children of acts with their consequences, freedom with responsibility, a link that is not possible in an extremely relaxed and unstructured environment. Article 7 regulates issues relating to pan-Hellenic exams, reduces the groupings of the 3rd grade from four to three, restores the weight factor in two lessons per scientific field, restores Latin as an examination of the Humanities Guidance Group, while ministerial decisions will strengthen the autonomous nature of the high school by means of measures such as the "contra" lesson in particular: mathematics in theoretical orientation and history in practice. It is an important step towards substantially strengthening the autonomous role of high school as a school, as a global education and addressing its decades of uneducational identity with the premise of introductory examinations at universities. Article 8 defines as a condition for the promotion and dismissal of pupils in general high school the general average '10', as I said, for '9,5'. Article 9 introduces a gradual introduction of the bank's establishment of classified issues in order, inter alia, to contribute to ensuring that all schools in the country cover the whole of the curriculum. The subjects in question will be selected - I would point this out - by 50% from the theme bank and 50% from the teachers. The second chapter - Articles 10 to 23 - concerns arrangements on standards and experimental schools, the restoration and strengthening of their important role in the educational environment of the country and the resolution of organisational issues. In this context, the administrative bodies are defined at the level of the territory, the region and the school team, and since September the operation of twenty-eight standards and thirty-four experiments throughout the country, as well as an open call for the conversion of public schools into standards and experimental in all regions of the country. The conditions for the placement of teachers in these schools, as well as internal and external evaluation procedures, are laid down. Here I repeat the symbolic and essential importance of the government's strategic choice to extend the model and experimental to start from Western Attica. So in the face of the logic of levelling and the minor effort of Officerial Response, we believe that the best way to deal effectively with inequalities is to give all children to whatever corners of the country, whether they live or live, and whatever the economic background of their family, substantial opportunities for discrimination in whatever creative area they choose and fit them. The third chapter - Articles 24 to 32 - relates to arrangements for Greek-language education abroad, more efficiently filling gaps, simplification of procedures, speeding up the payment of a salary and providing incentives for teachers. The fourth chapter concerns the planning and evaluation of the educational project, which defines a new framework for the organisation of educational planning, strengthens the collective and educational activities for further vocational development of education and introduces the dual evaluation at school level, on the one hand, internal self-assessment and on the other, external evaluation by the relevant CRP with an active role of the Institute for Education Policy and the Quality Assurance Authority in Primary and Secondary Education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The time you have said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u89	From now on, you'll be counting on two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u90	All right, I'll try, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u91	No, there's no attempt. It's a ritual.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u92	But if you eat me a minute, you'll give me a half a minute to interrupt. The aim is to understand that there must be no cause for concern among teachers, because the evaluation will act as a valuable tool for highlighting examples to be imitated and timely corrective - improvement intervention where necessary. Articles 37 and 39 provide for the obligation to apply internal rules of operation for each school unit, as well as the definition of two teachers as school-leaving counsellors, with a view to intervening, guiding and informing pupils, parents and guardians on matters of teaching, such as management and prevention of extreme behaviour and learning difficulties. School-learning consultants, the internal regulation, and the possibility of taking pedagogical measures that link the child's conscience to their outcome and cultivate personal responsibility are a set of provisions that respect the autonomy of school-learning units and the knowledge and experience of teachers enhance the possibility of effective and responsible response to critical issues in the school environment. Article 40 rationalises the framework for the award of candidates to international scientific invitations to tender and Article 41 provides for the procedure for examining candidates with upper limb damage. Article 42 makes it compulsory to better fill gaps in teachers, in particular in remote and successful areas with a combination of measures such as double modulation of a service in those areas, the two-year validity of classification tables and temporary exclusion penalties for teachers who do not undertake a service in the schools they have chosen. In this way, there is a real and in several cases acute and chronic problem for many schools in our country, while rightly rewarding teachers who choose to serve in difficult areas. Articles 44 to 49 regulate matters of appointments, recruitment and special education and training. As Minister Kerameos said from the Step of the House yesterday, the final lists of the recruitment of teachers and special education assistants have already been posted. This proves, ladies and gentlemen, that what we are saying is doing, and that really makes us proud, because this underlines the emphasis that the government attaches to this extremely sensitive issue that it ultimately considers the capacity of the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u93	Close with that phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u94	I'll finish. Let go of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u95	No, I'm not leaving you now, because we've said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u96	Okay, I'll keep it, but you're eating me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u97	No, it can't be done anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u99	This procedure cannot be continued. We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, please, I shall conclude. I asked you for a minute. You know that I always...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u101	Excuse me. Is it not in your knowledge that time for the debate on the articles is eight minutes? Why doesn't everyone arrange to plan themselves?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, please, at least I always keep time. I would therefore like to ask you to give me the half-minute that we have lost with your speeches and, indeed, a critical report on special treatment. So don't interrupt me to that, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u103	Good. I've given you a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u104	I would like to stress that it is an important intervention and in practice it proves that what we are doing is specific training. Since time is running out and the President is pressing, I conclude by saying that Greeks and Greeks, teachers, young people in our country and their families have chosen which of these approaches he covers, which responds to the struggles and ambitions that meet the vision of a Greece that will increasingly emerge as a centre of education and culture with international reference and radiation, just as it fits our country. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I think you are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. There's no need for any more comments. I call on the Vima, after being prepared healthally, SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Nikolaos Friend. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I hope you understand a little more than the previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, a question was raised yesterday by Mr Varoufakis, and I would expect a reply from the Minister. How do you legislate? What are the people planning your educational policy? Alone, the ministers concerned and you, the Minister? The question is crucial, because, as Mr. Kastanides said, there was once Papanoutsos, earlier there was Georgoulis with Karamanlis, K. D. Georgoulis and earlier there was Dimitris Glinos and other great teachers who had vision and were not just directors of instructions and situations. What's up today? I will confine myself to my term of office in SYRIZA government. I don't like to do the expert, politics was the responsibility I took over by the Ministry of Education and I graduated to people primarily specialists, teachers of practice, as well as theory. We set up the Scientific Committee for National Dialogue under the chairman, Professor Liako. Teachers and teachers participated from all over the range of politicians, including Mr. Moutzouris, now a regional director, then a former Polytechnic dean. There's been a dialogue, a finding came out, and we've taken it into account. Second level of dialogue of the Parliament's Committee on Morphic Affairs, where we had a broad debate on all the issues raised by teachers who were at the moment, involving former Minister of Education, the late Minister of Arts, Ms Giannakou, Mr Babiniotis and other teachers, the representatives of the EPP, were President, Professor Kouzelis and Vice-President, Mr Haramis, a well-known trainer of the act, as well as a circle of discussion in the Committee on Morphic Affairs with the educators of all the European Union's embassies in our country. That was dialogue, we didn't make the most of them, we didn't say we had a power point election, that's our motto and we're moving forward. That is how I expect the dialogue to take place, which unfortunately has not taken place. This government hears experts partly about the pandemic, because Mrs Keramos has not answered why she refused to shut down the pandemic schools, as it was written, but does not hear the experts on education at all. All the presidents of the educational departments of Greece say: "No English in kindergarten". I know, many parents want to give their children this possibility. But the experts are answering, so we can hear them, no? The same goes for Europe. The large countries, France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark and saying no less than six years old. There are some countries, such as Cyprus and Malta, that are differentiated for specific reasons. Malta has two languages, it has Maltese and English official languages. Cyprus is a member of the Commonwealth. And there are other specialities, which have to do with minorities in every country that also have minority languages. Is this an innovation against and against the expert opinion? Is that how we legislate? Will each Minister make his head, or will he satisfy pressure from syndicate or other environments? Let go of the American discussion. All right, well, that's what's said to the others to answer. Why don't you keep an eye on the experts when you're legislating? Secondly, in my opinion, teachers are very essential. No reform is carried out in absentia and much more against teachers. These days, the teachers are against these measures that you are introducing here. You're not answering them. People practically rejected the provision for cameras in the ranks, appealed to the Privacy Authority, made a decision of all the Presidents, including those belonging to the IACC, the Presidents of the ELMEs who say there is a risk of breaching personal data and there is a dissolution of the training process with cameras in the ranks. What do you think? Why don't you answer? Is that how you legislate in absentia and against teachers? There's something going on in training, isn't it? I am sorry in this arrogant way that you are acting not only here in this House, but, unfortunately, this is more important than teachers. Madam Minister, several Members of the New Democracy Parliament, and all opposition, disagree with the provision for the conduct you have put into, and even the retroactive imposition of, the dismissals. I do not want to repeat the arguments. Which teacher proposed this, who recommended it to you? I want to hear a name. Who recommended it? It's important. I repeat. And the New Democracy MPs from the Step that we are talking about is against this provision. Will you insist? Will you give them the beginning of party discipline? Will you put them in a world if they don't vote for this provision? Make a move, move essential not to leave in the second and first grades and high school and get it out of the vending room, it's not a move. It is well known that pedagogical issues are not repeated. Minister, the bill you brought us is not about all the education, it's about a small part of the education. Basically, the body of the bill is the so-called standards and experimental schools. These are eight and a few more today, a total of fifty, are expected to be a hundred years of time in a total of thousands of educational structures. These are children who, at best, will be ten, fifteen thousand when we have about one million students in secondary education, technical high school, general high school, special treatment that is not a word in the bill inside. So there is no education from your bill. I would expect you to bring another bill that actually refers to the real upgrading of education, instead we have the sacred diaspora of pilot and experimental schools. I am sorry, but this is not a substantial change, but a deregulation of education. Listen. Some innovations you say will exist in the standards of schools, such as groups, such as relationships with universities are good innovations, and I would expect you to put them in all schools. Why only thirty, forty and fifty in Greece? Put them in all schools, that's the program. But you insist on doing what we call a threefold education system, three speeds. The children who are qualified, some appeal to learning or excellence, as you say, who do not define pedagogically what it means to be excellence for twelve years of age, when the story of adolescence, terra incognita, for these children you say, are going to go to a few schools in selective choice, as Mr Varoufakis said, in concrete and appropriate terms. So we extract this bleeding, the good students from general education, from the many schools and take them, under good conditions, to accept what you say, but only there are good conditions, in some schools throughout Greece. What's that? Is provision for upgrading the overall training? And at the same time, be careful when the schools have no good students and good teachers, as everyone here says will go to standards, then the level of the rest of the education falls, the thousands of schools for the hundreds of thousands of children. The few children who are going to go to the few experimental and to the few standards will be children - indeed, to accept it - excellently, but what you are saying is relevant, because that is where another model of degree and tough competition will begin. Is it accidental that you brought a provision that you finally took back with the reactions to put in high school standards tests? In other words, there is no end to this story of the marathon of exams in this story of bleeding children and trying to steal their adolescence and their real mood for learning. Ladies and gentlemen, we want all education to have schools perfectly well. Can this be done? Let's pursue it. For example, as SYRIZA, we brought a single-style school for all primary schools throughout Greece. Not a little, as it used to be on Diamantopoulou, one third of schools, throughout education. At the same time, we have brought a new ESDP awarded by the European Union. These are specific acts of excellence and specific acts of model schools, everywhere and not just because of economics, as you say, ways, some. It is not a question of social mobility when we distinguish a few thousand children from the total of hundreds of thousands and a few hundred schools from the total of thousands of schools to do, as you say, social mobility. This - I repeat - is the disguise of social inequality. It is the disguise, unfortunately, of what the Prime Minister and you that it is the fate of people to live in social inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the school models also have an evaluation of teachers who are a pilot for generalization from time to year throughout education. It's a bureaucratic evaluation. We'll have a detailed conversation. It is an evaluation that has a model of 'new inspection', does not give the teacher confidence and does not have any conditions for any evaluation. Firstly, there is no permanent staff as a whole in education. When you have forty thousand teachers every year you take them and recycle them over time to substitutes, then that means you can't make a substantial evaluation of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u107	Close, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u108	When you don't have training, you can't make a real evaluation of education either. I conclude with the subject of the agenda yesterday by the Minister. He said SYRIZA's thematic week had no schedule and was optional. Wrong. He had a program where his main axes were body, health, nutrition, gender inequalities, human rights, addictions, treatment of traffic. The study carried out by the EPA, the state institution, showed that all axes cover very high percentages of better schools. It was optional. Lie second by drag. Oh, no. When Mrs Kerameos cut her, she was compulsory for high school and primary schools a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u109	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Friend, to be fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u110	I'm done. Be honest, no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, only one word on the 'PISA' issue. The results of ‘PISA’ 2015-2018 are your results. In principle, Mrs. Keramos, they are results because they concern the examination of the 15-year-old children of 2015, which is your only creation. The 15-year-olds of 2018 studied throughout elementary school before 2015 and in high school, as in primary school before 2009 in the hard memorial years. Throughout the world, therefore, the crisis and the memorials have brought down performance. Do not say, then, that others are to blame for any bad performances. Thank you very much. We'll stand by for second-hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. I call to Stepma the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u114	Good morning, all colleagues. Good morning, Minister and Mr. Undersecretaries. Today is the second day in plenary we are discussing the articles. Here I have to tell you that the administration of SYRIZA has come and levelled and stripped the public school. You, coming by announcements and profound announcements, leave it in his nakedness, unfortunately, you are advertising it. The bill you bring answers the question: What is the problem with education? Oh, no. Answering the question: What problems of Greek society that emerged in the months of pandemic are solved? Oh, no. What's the strategic plan, what's your vision of public school, what kind of school do you want? It doesn't come from anywhere. As much as you "dress" because I have been following all these days the struggling efforts, with beautiful and pleasant and modern expressions the empty content of your bill, you do not give any specific or convincing answers. You say: "We want a school of vigilance, extroversion, a school of excellence, a school of the future." Because the Greek language is unstable, it is a pity that our children are not learning it and the worst thing is that it is a shame that they don't even understand it. Who disagrees with all this? But I told you, the path of this person is the only safe one. Where do you set targets, where do you define the methods of monitoring their progress? A clear cost, in terms of resources, or a sense of where the sources of funding will emerge. How do you enhance accountability, but especially by giving motivation, appetite and care to improve each of these thirteen and a half public schools? Nowhere. The bill highlights ideological countercyclism in narrow backgrounds of the past and sealed, proposing the separation school, the school - punishment, the school avenged by the stateless. The title'school upgrade' is incompatible with content and forecasts. Upgrade in what way? With miscarriage? By reproducing outdated knowledge through the old papaya recipe? With the threat of conduct, without any reference to technological education? Is that what you propose as a country's arsenal for so close tomorrow? Upgrade without vision, without plan, without implementation of individual objectives and without evaluation, please tell me what kind of upgrade is it? Unfortunately, education for the government is excluded from the structural reforms that will change the face of the country. I regret to wonder if a country can change and move forward leaving education behind. I go to chapter I 'Switching at school'. You say: "We introduce pilot new themes into the mandatory preschool, primary and high schools programme." Pilot, you know, we say something that is being applied for the first time and we want to see how it works. New thematics say lessons and skills that have not been applied before. Do we mean the deficit timetable 8: 00' with 2: 00' in the reduced flexible zone timetable established by Mr. Philis? So I ask you, is this the first time that such action is institutionalised at the Greek school? Does the flexible area of creative activities institutionalised since 2004 remind you of something? Here I have to tell you that something is trying to hide the Ministry. And what's that? Simplifiedly, five hours have been lost, with Mr. Friend's school, and in these hours you can't make up for them, nor do you want to. So the time is not fixed, because you are not going back to the reformed full-day school that we have spent many years voting, supporting and strengthening. And how do you cover it? Through this patent, therefore, through the reduced time-limit of the flexible zone. There, in the big grades of elementary school, you know very well that there are no hours to make them available. And when we ask the Ministry for appropriate structures, support and promotion, you refer us to the bells, you say "be careful". With such advertising, however, for the scanning reforms in education, ten months of waiting and so late anguish depositing the bill, we expected at least to have the full - day school with thirty - five hours a week. With air, however, no unburned EPA can be done. Why are we insisting on the EDP? We insist on why he gave solutions and answers to real needs and to both the pupils and their families and the society itself. Since March, with the pandemic, the Ministry has discovered distance education. Three months has not left a channel in which the leadership of the Ministry of Education does not advertise the value of technology in the transmission of knowledge. He's doing very well. Ten years late, I'll tell you. But when the time comes to place yourself on the bill and talk about the digital school, beaut, no change in the time of informatics, in the way of teaching. Obviously all of this will be remembered again in September. English in kindergarten: Nice, modern, catchy sound, especially for young parents we want our shooters to have the best possible. But we have given you our thoughts. Gymnasium: We will tell you again: Our proposal is that uncertificate of English knowledge and without IT certification is not meant. Teaching: What else can we tell you? We've cleared all reasonable arguments. Unfortunately, ideological strangles do not allow the ministry to hear. The stricterisation of the promotion framework but also the assessment of the conduct without being accompanied by the establishment of compensatory institutions for weak pupils and pupils with a problem of conduct makes the school a punishment, not the modern school of the future. High school. You had announced and advertised the National Dismissal. We cannot discuss the upgrading of the school without reference to support structures, policies relating to special education, minority and migration policy. Today we are pleased to table an amendment to you, which is an amendment which our own space has believed very much. It is essentially an improvement of the initiative we took in 1996, which concerns the quota measure, as is well known, which adopts a reasonable positive discrimination in terms of minority education. We therefore believe that, because it has worked catalysts and because the opportunity given to the children of the Muslim minority to have access to Greek tertiary education has made a decisive contribution both to increasing these children and to secondary education, but also to education as a whole, we ask, because we see that there are multiple benefits, to increase this percentage of importers to 1%. The aim is to be to be able to support the thirst these children have to continue their studies in Greek higher education. Based on classified difficulty issues: We have tabled our proposals in detail, you know that everything will depend on how to implement and, above all, on how to define the details with the ministerial decision. Let's go to standards and experimentals. When we have thirteen and a half thousand schools, and you are concerned solely with the sixty-two standards and experimentally, this is a sample of your indifference to Greek public education. You also show low expectations, complete lack of vision and confess at the same time your inadequacy to provide the whole school with a modern public school. Nowhere is the desire of the Ministry of Education for organised integration and dissemination of excellence. Article 13. So you say that in every region and every county I try to build excellence. I'm trying to get standards and experimental. I will bring you the example of my own region, the region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace. What are you doing? A school experimental in Alexandroupolis without primary and high school. In other words, you tell the children, "close the eye" that "Your school will become experimental" but then one of the same. Is that - and we really want you to tell me - a comprehensive perception or is this anguish of impression? There are parents who are struggling, but mostly there are students, and under no circumstances should they be surprised once again. Professional high school. Occasional absence everywhere. We have tabled a proposal for you. Standards and experimental professional schools, standards and experimental artistic, music and sports schools. After all, these schools are experimental, schools differently. Schools with a very high level of teachers and children, however. Greek-language education. I think it's on a positive basis. It improves the efforts made. But here with Article 28 you also have a choice of training coordinators based on the law of selecting SYRIZA executives. It is unacceptable after ten months that there should be no legislation regulating this great and unacceptable situation that has arisen. And that's very soon too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u115	But close now, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u116	I'm closing, but the funds are a lot, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u117	Maybe it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u118	Review: Dialogue for us if you are in favour or against rating no one exists. We have proved it when in almost difficult times we put our backs on our own and legislated issues that had been found toward us at that time guilds and very closed circuits. If anyone wants to talk about evaluation, look at Law 3848/2010 Article 32. Evaluation everywhere. School intimidation. Let me just ask you this: what have you done with that intergroup committee and the Bullying Observatory?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u119	Mrs. Kefalidou, close up. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u120	I'm hanging up. We're talking four minutes for a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u121	I'm to everyone with the same behavior. Please hang up. Close with one sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u122	Let's go a little bit to the UAE provisions, they shout 'there's no dialogue.' I would like to finish by saying that no matter how much you try to convince us that what we are discussing is reform I will remind you of Alexis Diaras - do not interrupt me because it is very important to present to this House an integrated thought - which said this amazing in the year 1973, which is timely as never before: Education reform is not when you are making a replacement of a teaching method, nor when you build school buildings, nor when you increase the teachers' earnings, nor when you change the timeline and analytic programme. As important as these are, they are elements of a reform or simple changes. Educational reform is something deeper, it is the change of direction, it is the domination of a new spirit. When we talk about reform, the purpose of teaching changes. New bodies are given the right to decide on educational things. We pass through the monolithic teaching in flexible shapes. Change the system in depth and width. With the absolute certainty that your bill does not fulfil any of these conditions, we shall vote in a quiet manner against our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kastanidis yesterday and Mr. Friends today said that in 1917 in education reform there was a Glenos behind it, in 1965 there was a Papanuchos. Who do you have today? Mr. Friend, don't you know him? He's the same person you have. You have the same mentor. It is the OECD, it is the European Union, it is the BSE and urban modernisations of 1965 and 1917 today have this character and this content because you know capitalism is evolving and the school it needs today is this and this school is serving it and New Democracy has served it, and SYRIZA is serving it. Upgrade school, says the bill. Of course, when a bill that has this title is completely missing from special school, special treatment, I don't know what upgrade we can talk about. Let us come back now, to close this issue, to skills. As long as we see the history of these skills at school, as they are introduced at the beginning with the flexible zone. In other words, they have a non-standard character. Then SYRIZA comes in and implements the so-called "thematic week", i.e. systemizes the provision of these skills. And now the New Democracy, of course, is institutionalizing them. He intends them pilots at the beginning, normally later, on the schedule, from preschool to high school. And that's what matters. Of course, we have said here - and we will say it again, we have absolutely no problem - that several of these imported skills - skills, perhaps better, but, anyway - are also useful social and necessary today for a man. You know, however, that usually "with the basilica the pot is also watered." And along with these useful skills, youth entrepreneurship enters, and sustainable development and something so cute that prepares man, of course, for the present day, to be persuasive and submissive. I sum up our reflection on this issue. What will be the relationship between these skills and knowledge? Will they substitute her for knowledge or will they presuppose her? Our answer is the second one. The position of the government, the position of all the other parties, is of course to replace it. This comes out of your things. Because very simply at your school, the knowledge of multifaceted, general education, you consider it luxury. At this school, and in your educational system, it is enough for the eight basic skills that the European Union has set as the necessary tool for tomorrow's worker - sorry, employable, it is not at all certain that he will be a worker - with the appropriate ideological preparation and manipulation of course. You don't go to this school like that, you don't do that at all. You've got to get a "secretary". This "secretary" on one side reads, as we said, "OECD, European Union, BSE", and on the other hand reads "assessment", which will be the lever of the operation of this school, so that: Firstly, it seeks resources from anywhere except the state budget, which will constantly be frustrated. Secondly, the evaluation of this tool to pooren it into content, knowledge and education, to turn it into a ring, skating competition, learning results, to categorize both schools and students even more highly, even more classic, to incriminate teachers, to incriminate their parents and their own children. That is to say, what Breech said, "the ones who took the book from our hand are now blaming us that we have remained undisputed". That leads to this measure of evaluation. It became too big a dash between the New Democracy and SYRIZA for the assignments. This theatre that you set up among yourselves for the assignments must be stopped now. It is challenging for thousands of young children who have been running throughout Greece for years now - forty, one thousand have been this year - and you have been mocking them with appointments for ten years. When twenty thousand, when fifteen, when ten. Make them. Now simulate these people. Do you want to do the first, the elementary, the step to upgrade school? Monitor these teachers. It's very simple. We're going to Greek-language education, a painful story. In fact, the provisions do not address the problems of the education of Greek immigrants. There are huge deficiencies in infrastructure. The Munich school story, let's not open it now. It's a disgrace, really. There are shortcomings in teachers. And, of course, you also have the 40 children limit to create a section of Greek language abroad. Result? In several areas in Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Dresden, where this number of forty children does not gather, this part of the Greek language cannot be done. What about these kids? They'll run their parents around and miles from there endlessly or they'll be forced to collect and put themselves in their pocket money to rent a place, pay a teacher, buy books. That's what we're talking about. In fact, when does that happen? It matters. At a time when migration is aware of a new outburst. And where we said we had solved, anyway, after years of hardship and suffering, the problems of the children of Greek immigrants now because we have this outbreak, they appear again and appear even more intense. We're going to experimental and standard schools. This is, of course, two different types of school. Other experimental, other than standards. Of course, if you ask us whether there is a need for experimentation in education, experimentation in teaching methods, in means and so much, the answer to us is undoubtedly 'yes'. Of course, and there should be experimentation in education. But that is why we add that it is not right for some very specific schools to be consolidated as experimental schools and for them to remain as such years or decades. We say that these schools should be renewed, extended throughout the country at regular intervals, so that when the experimentation they have undertaken is completed, that is, when their experimental effort is complete, to renew their apprenticeship potential, this experimental effort can also lead to more objective conclusions. For models and excellence, Minister, we'll see you again. We excellence don't give you anything. Because for us this constant effort to educate human self-assurance is self-evident. The communists are making this effort today. Here, the communists showed it in the wildest days, in the wilder times of exile and persecution, when at their place of testimony schools of self-education were set up, the stone universities, known as universities of that time, from which great scientists came out, really without their degree, of course, but otherwise, they had nothing to envy the education they received from these schools, of course from teachers too inspiring. Don't say names here now. The standards really teach children of popular families. We won't question it, of course. And they have to study, because a lot of them have excellent gifts, they have particular gradients. Alas, we don't question it. However, because yesterday a New Democracy MEP - I think Mr Syrigos - said that, in any case, in these schools, class inequalities and children's competition disappear on equal terms, that is not, of course, because, quite simply, social inequalities, economic, educational, that is, inequalities are not left out of school, pupils are transferring them to school and are manifested. Of course, now there is one issue here for the Ministry to answer how it is done in these types of schools, the beacons of education, according to the teachers themselves, that there are so many vacancies of teachers each year, and there is a silence from the Ministry regarding the movement of children in these schools, as they refer to wider geographical areas. Let's go to foreign languages. I'm running a little bit, because time's pushing. After SYRIZA started this "magazine", as we said, at the University of Athens' Philosophy, then grew up at the International University in Thessaloniki, now the New Democracy generalizes it and lits the green light to establish such sections foreign languages and with tuition - that is the whole story - all universities. They'll be addressed to foreigners in the first phase. Also, the receipts from the tuition fees of these undergraduate programmes, like the tuition fees received by SYRIZA in postgraduate courses - let us not forget, let us see how they are doing it, one of these programmes and the other from there - are intended to make up for the continuously declining state funding. That's the explanation, that's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u125	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u126	In other words, even this state funding to get an institution will have to be assessed, according to market norms. In such a university, the emergence of his administration, of course, becomes of particular importance and his administration should be oriented and committed to this business function. That is why the elite body of this administration is limited to the teachers, taking out and throwing out everyone else. It's unacceptable. The only thing that proves by this measure is that as much as the business character of the university as democracy will be limited in it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A word, Mr President, about the translations and a word about Article 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u127	Very soon, though. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u128	I'll be very brief. The academic criterion is therefore added to the relocations. One more cut-off can be found among those who the previous SYRIZA government has put in place, so that they are cut off, excluded and, in fact, prevented from studying the children of poor people's families, because, as we know, the situation with the students' homes - let us not talk about them - is unacceptable. For Article 5 and the conduct. Invokes the Ministry of Education of the measure. Historical experience says that this pedagogical character has never existed. It is a measure condemned to the conscience of society and written on the most black pages of education. As for the penitentiary character you mention, he will have the exact same effect that a strong air has on fire suppression. Your arguments, Minister, do not convince you either. You should now withdraw Article 5. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. I invite Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, education is the driving lever of social progress. I begin with this assumption because it seems that the government does not take the draft law seriously. That's why you're constantly changing everything and according to the beam. Apply the Greek Solution proposal at last. Create a cross-party committee in order to draw up a 12-year training programme, which will be implemented without any changes from any party to the government. To get to the bottom of the bill, starting with the Skill Labs, we would like to stress that you do not explain the contents of the new thematic circles and the individual thematic sections. It is unclear how exactly children’s skills will be developed. We also do not agree with the fact that it includes sexual education at such small ages. As far as teaching English in kindergarten is concerned, this is a regulation which already applies in most foreign countries. There is no doubt that this is a global language, but we must not degrade the teaching of Greek in any way. Our constant request, which we have already pointed out many times and during the debate of the bill at committee meetings, is to increase the hours of teaching history and Religiouss. You do not consider the pedagogical role of Greek history and its contribution to the formation of the personality of people in general. You ignore the importance of teaching the cultural offering of Hellenism, as well as its universal importance. So is Religious. Are you ashamed of our history and religion? Why do you not want to teach them to our children as much as we should? Indication of the status of conduct in the curriculum, we believe that it is moving in the right direction in the context of the overall development of the personality of pupils and the illustrating of this behaviour in the qualifications of students. With regard to the bank of graduated teaching, reasonable questions about its organisation and the material to be used are easily created. We believe that we must incorporate crisis issues and not memorize them. In terms of standards and experimental schools, first of all, it should be a basic principle that innovation should be promoted by all public schools. They must not be schools for another social class. Equality is required in the educational process. Article 19 refers to the teaching staff of the pilot and experimental schools. The necessary loss of the organic position for teachers of a school, which is transformed into a model or experimental school, will be a relevant factor for teachers to consent to this conversion, especially in schools in the province. That is why we are proposing that there be arrangements for the performance of a specific recommended place at a school of choice of the teacher within the same region. The question also arises as to whether disabled pupils will have the right to participate in the selection process in the school standards and whether they will be able to take part in the draw for their selection in experimental schools. We also express our dissatisfaction with the funding under Article 23, because there is no equal treatment with public schools. We could possibly accept that if this measure were to apply to all public schools. In other words, if there was someone who wants to fund the school for some reason, he could do it. As far as the self-assessment of school units is concerned, it is funny to self-assess the teaching staff of a school unit. Neither the notion nor the purpose of the self-assessment of the school unit is clear. For the internal rules of operation of school units, it should be set up in the standards of a central base, set by the Minister himself. The following condition must be laid down in the higher education of high school students who have been distinguished in international scientific contests: The distinguished person is to be introduced into a school in the field that has been distinguished and not to be irrelevant because the essence of the reward is being lost. Double moleculosis for those who serve in difficult areas with a limit of 20 molecules does not provide appropriate incentives. There should be a greater moleculation clearly. It is certain that in this case the chronic problem of lack of educational capacity in the remote areas and villages of our country would be addressed. We cannot ignore the unexplained reduction in Article 51 because it goes beyond all logic. We're talking about racism all over his majesty. A reduction in the budget line of the Public Investment Programme for the recruitment of alternates for 2021 by EUR 23 million is observed. Does this mean that fewer replacements will be hired in 2021? What about increasing students in the departments? Is that the quality and upgrade you're promoting? At last, move on to recruitment. Do the special schools all day. Don't throw them in the disposable basket. We in the Greek Solution say so clearly. Education is ailing us. He can't stand any more blows. Give her, finally, breath. Don't give her the gift shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too, for the time economy. I invite Mrs. Sophia Sakorafa to Step up with the special speaker of Mera25 and Vice-President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a reference to today's anniversary. It's the anniversary of the horrible Nazi massacre in Distomo. We have the collective and national debt to honour this special anniversary sacrifice of the Greek people and to return to our memory the inhumanity of the occupation troops. Let's come to the bill now. In addition to the disagreement we have made on the principle, we shall now refer to its own provisions. In addition, the size of the bill does not allow for a thorough discussion. We will only have to make references to selective ones since it is not possible to exhaust any comment on all the provisions. In Article 3 for municipal schools, we will repeat in particular the need to increase the hours for Aesthetic Education, Visuals, Music and Theatre, and to maintain the number of even three hours per week for Physical Education for all classes. In Article 4 for high school, we shall stand on a few brief remarks, without going back to the examination programme. For the second language: I fear that the educational process of the second foreign language ends up almost virtual, Minister. It takes three hours a week, as it used to be. Nor can the second foreign language be selected on the basis of the majority statement and not on the basis of their actual choice. We believe that the problems need to be overcome by the efficient organisation of available staff. For Informatics: In theory we all agree on the need to upgrade the course, but the planned time is completely inadequate. At least two more hours per week are absolutely necessary in all classes. For natural sciences: it is certain that we need more rational management here. Physics, although in writing, is a one-hour course in high school. Chemistry is downgraded in the curriculum throughout high school. Such unjustified devaluation also exists in Geology. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress the important environmental education deficit which should be a cognitive priority, but you seem to be contemptuous of it. I don't have to argue anymore. The criticality of the world's situation is known to everyone. For supportive teaching: It is truly incomprehensible, incomprehensible to abolish supportive teaching for re-examined high school students, as well as transferring repetitive, promotional and absolute exams in September. Yet, even five - six hours of supportive teaching for poor pupils was truly valuable help. Repetitive examinations should be carried out in June and support courses should not be abolished. For the 3rd grade: we oppose the arrangement whereby you abolish the third examination in the 3rd grade and obligate students to repeat class in case of failure. We must not forget that high school, in this case, issues a certificate and even compulsory education. For Article 5, which concerns high school, what I mentioned about foreign languages and high school apply. We seem to be underestimating the value they have in forming personality at this stage of the social field and, on this occasion, I would like to stress that supposedly confrontation and comparison between courses and cognitive objects is a foolish disorientation. They have no meaning to false dilemmas, such as between Latin and sociology, between Ancient and Mathematics or anything else. The real issue is the rationalisation of public education, which requires responsible combined solutions. We come to Articles 34 and 35. A framework for internal and external evaluation of school units is established in a mechanical way based on the objectives set. The assessment of the education project cannot include the State's responsibilities, for example sub-financing of education, sub-sistence of school units, incomplete infrastructure and intrinsic and protracted weaknesses of the system. In Article 38, you establish the School Life Adviser. You give him a range of responsibilities to which it would really be impossible to respond substantially. This is how you define the ineffectiveness of the institution. And one more thing, its field of competence seems to replace the work of psychologists and social workers or at least overlap their own responsibilities. Ultimately, you seem to want to legitimise and perpetuate the shortages of the educational system in the staff, psychologists and social workers. Do you really think you're going to fill this void just with the advisors and their applicability? I would like to make a special reference, and this time a positive one, to the provision of Article 40. We are talking about students who have won discrimination in scientific Olympians and what is provided for in the law on admission to higher education. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the state recognises both institutionally and not only with horrific praise the efforts and success of these children with the support of their families. We also consider Article 42 to be positive the double molecularisation of alternates for their service in difficult areas, but in any case, additional supportive measures are needed in terms of their living needs, in particular housing, travel and feeding. The provisions of Article 46 are also positive to some extent. Apart from the above, however, for the staff of schools and the smooth start of each school year, other direct actions are needed, such as the completion of the service changes of permanent teachers in June, before the end of each teaching year, and the placement of all the necessary deputies on 1 September of each year. We are, of course, clearly opposed to the provision of Article 45 which imposes a two-year exclusion from the lists and recruitment to substitutes or work-time teachers who, for whatever reason, do not undertake a service. We believe that it is a punishable and unfair provision and, above all, because the state does not do anything to ensure that these people are able to live in the place where they are invited to serve. In Article 50 you plan to increase the number of pupils in kindergartens and primary schools from twenty-two to twenty-five per department. This provision is a direct confession of the State that it is unable to manage the educational system on minimum acceptable terms and accepts unauthorised reductions in educational objectives. This growth is crucially downgrading the quality of the educational process. However, the real distance and real deficit are not between twenty-two and twenty-five, which is also crucial. The real distance is between twenty-five and seventeen, which is indicated by all international organizations. We are far away, Minister, and you take us even further. That is why we are calling for this provision to be withdrawn. The State has the basic and incomprehensible obligation to ensure in every way the minimum acceptable conditions for the completion of the training project. And I stress: in every way. It is the government's responsibility to find solutions to the funding of education and it is not a solution to such unacceptable structural deregulations. As far as standards and experimental schools are concerned, I do not think there is any point in discussing their feasibility or usefulness. In any case, however, despite the ideological investment of the ruling party in this matter, we have seen a lack of legislation that betrays sluggishness and haste. I would particularly like to stress that there is not even the prediction that such a school exists in every county of the country. If you really believe in their operation you should ensure their necessary dispersion so that students from all over the country can access them and do not depend on the random placement of the schools. Let us also come to Greek-language education abroad. Unfortunately, all governments will, deliberately, maintain an indebtedness and opacity system governing staff placements, salary payments, but also the crucial issue of granting extensions beyond five years. To date, practice has resulted in a comprehensive system malfunction, significant deficiencies in specific specialities and a deterioration in the quality of the education provided. And all that beyond the unequal and discriminating treatment of staff. Other teachers are unduly forced to return to Greece by overthrowing their life context and others are forced to remain abroad on unpaid leave so that they do not separate their family. We believe that this unacceptable situation cannot be extended. We must at last address the issue as a whole, with the necessary regulations and uniformly for all, clearly defined criteria. Minister, there should be an integrated approach to the issues in this bill. I will also look at Article 82 on foreign-language curriculum at the EIT. This is where you introduce tuition fees in higher education. You are simply talking about possible fees while you know that they are neither possible nor fee. Just avoid writing the word tuition. Of course you have the justification that you are following the path drawn by the Minister of SYRIZA, Mr Gavroglou, who has introduced the specific arrangements for the Philosophy School of EKA. In conclusion, I will return to the specific issue, Minister, regarding the successors of the IT11 Physical Education Sector in the process of the 2008 3P Notice of the ASP, which remain undetermined after eleven years and for which I have tabled an amendment to you. It is also a matter of honour for the political system to restore injustice. Besides, all of these have been justified both by the courts and by the S.H.E. If you have come to the conclusion that special legislation is needed to restore your legitimacy, I would ask you, Minister, to accept the amendment we have tabled. And I summarise the bill and close it, Mr President. This is a bill that fully reflects your understanding of the educational system in Greece. You want to establish a multi-speed educational system that makes progress conditional on the social and economic situation of families and pupils, a system which not only reproduces, but also increases social inequalities. I wonder if you all really agree with all the arrangements in the bill that I imagine you will probably be voting for and a pity on the altar of famous party discipline and subjection to sacrifice the real social needs and, indeed, in the sensitive area of education. In any case, we should bear in mind that before the schoolchildren's projected self-improvement and before the punishment of teachers, there is the primary responsibility of the state in education. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Castanides, wait a minute, you need to explain why you're asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u135	I know my duty, Mr President. I would like to ask you to clarify the debate on the amendments and additions. I understood, in your introductory remarks, that you proposed, in a body with the articles, that all amendments be discussed, irrespective of whether they are linked to regulations proposed by the government in the draft legislation under discussion or not. If I did understand you correctly, that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, particularly with regard to amendments which are not related to articles. Therefore, Mr President, the amendments relating to articles in the bill will be debated as a unity with these articles, but amendments and additions which do not relate to articles in the bill must be discussed in accordance with Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the debate on the articles. I would ask that we keep this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u136	It will be transferred to the President and to the Conference of Presidents, but I must tell you in advance that they are all time-consuming, and so it is planned to discuss, uniformly on articles and amendments. This issue has been discussed several times, Mr Kastanides, in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u137	Only when they're related. There is no parliamentary practice that violates Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Rule 101 expressly provides - and your colleagues know so - and it is not a matter of parliamentary practice to discuss with the President - that amendments which are not related, are not directly related to an article, are discussed separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u138	Yes, your location is perceived. I call on the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, proceed to the future by taking steps in the past. The proposal that we are debating today is unfortunately very poor, both in a worthy and in an educational context. Once again, we do not discuss the school that we want, a school that will cultivate humanitarian education, which will support principles, values and standards, which will create citizens who breathe freely, that will not allow the knee of violence and racism to be allowed on the neck of people, a school that will pave the way for new enlightenment, which will be digital. We must therefore finally open up a dialogue on strategic issues. What training do we want here in Greece in this global environment that our children are invited to face? What schools and what universities do we want? Can we finally agree on objectives and strategy? It is a major issue, and if we do not do so, it is clear that this sewing is going to continue on the back of the new generation, that is, what is being done today. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos TASOULAS.]] We in the Change Movement respond clearly. Today we should discuss the plan to tackle all the learning crisis, which affects the development of human resources in Greece. It should be our priority to note that in 2018 the performance of our students falls far short of the performance of other children in the neighbouring countries and even at a downward trend compared to the results of 2014. There should therefore be a project to help pupils everywhere, both in the large urban centres and in the region. Best practices of experimental and standards should be incorporated as innovations in public schools. What do we see around us? The excellent ones are falling and the weak are growing. So the first thing we need is a substantial reform, a major change in our educational system. We at the Change Movement have both strategy and vision. quality education for all students and reducing the learning gap with measurable goals through the upgrading of the public school. That is the aim of any legislative intervention from now on. Moreover, the substantial improvement in the quality of the education provided by our country's public schools is perhaps the most just intervention in favour of medium and low incomes, but at the same time, Prime Minister, it effectively supports economic recovery and sustainable development. A system that will provide basic knowledge and skills for the 21st century for all. This was served by the large educational reform of the PASOK government in 2011 and the digital school. With a number of major changes, at all levels of education, which, unfortunately, have not been carried out by SYRIZA, a policy that you continue with. Beyond that, you retain the legislation of SYRIZA, both in terms of the educational framework and in terms of the management of education. And you come and you're just batting on them. With the bill, instead of restoring the full-day municipality, with the reformed program, the government maintains the law of SYRIZA, which degraded it. He's clearly degraded it. And what are you doing? Pretext small variations. Instead of abolishing the unacceptable SYRIZA law on the recruitment of teachers, which the New Democracy then voted against, maintains and implements it fully and for the third time, it renews the term of unconstitutionally elected training directors. It continues to hold nine qualified training executives (school advisors and training directors) who have been evaluated and trained. Instead of completing the certification of Informatics and English in High School, she leaves her. Instead of strengthening technical and vocational education and connecting it to the country's productive needs, it is completely indifferent, and the very same indifference shows for Special Education. It is not about solving the problems that exist there. Instead of giving real content to the National Dismissal, linking it to the introduction to higher education institutions, it insists on the packages and the SYRIZA import system. Instead of predicting the recruitment of social workers and psychologists, it creates problems with the definition of educational trust, which, of course, because of the noise that has been reasonably created, is now renamed to a school counselor. As for the subject of reintroduction of conduct to qualifications, what can one say? Totally anachronistic and anti-educational measure. He chooses, in terms of punishment, to restore the status of declaring the conduct in the dismissal, an intervention that is deeply conservative. It is characteristic, Prime Minister, that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament notes that: "the conduct indicated in the dismissal at the time of acquisition of the title will reveal to the two-monthly data which may lead to an unfavourable assessment, stigmatisation or even unfavourable discrimination, especially in recruitment procedures." We are not talking about this, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is saying it. In short, he's been stigmatizing the student for the rest of his life. This is not progress. I left as last but very important a comment on the major question of evaluation. For us there is no dilemma. We're in favor. We're talking clean. It is necessary to evaluate the training staff. In no case, however, the evaluation must be punishable and presented as a means of enforcement or as a panacea for correcting chronic weaknesses and deficiencies. The evaluation, ladies and gentlemen of the government, should be linked with care for schools in disadvantaged or rural or border regions, with measures to reduce cultural inequalities, with a fairer distribution of resources between school units, evaluation of structures and staff, reform of curricula, teaching methods and practices, and, of course, systematic training of teachers. The evaluation should encourage an educational of freedom and responsibility, creativity and initiative. I'd like to make a special reference to cameras and the direct transmission of the course through schoolrooms. This conservative turn is fully compatible with the concept of computer as a teacher, who uses digital tools, not to renew the teaching act, but also to revive and strengthen the educational frontal teaching model that exploits new technologies at school as tools for supervision and control. There were choices to support students who did not come to school with modern and asynchronous methods, just as we suggested in the Change Movement. But you didn't make that choice. You have chosen direct broadcasting, that is, the lively execution of the teaching act, which, of course, was almost condemned by the whole educational community and became a hull for your political perception. I repeat our view: 'Yes', distance education. "No", studio class. In short, knowledge of all, technology everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no question about us whether we are voting against this bill or not. It is a self-evident act of responsibility, consistency and ideological identity that his vote against the students, against the teachers, against the afflicted parents, against the entire Greek society. Inequality reaps around us. And you, instead of putting the burden on the raging that is the possibility for every child to reach where he dreams you want another generation of citizens to be bound to the financial capacity of their parents. The world is changing, but you are not. Education policies should prioritise the reversal of the negative learning trend, the rapid improvement in the performance of all pupils and excellence, while reducing inequalities. To get out of the crisis, we need to invest in knowledge and in the new generation. And you're doing nothing today. On the contrary, your policy is being consolidated and inequality widened. You're wasting an opportunity at the expense of the new generation. So, not just do you not open up return roads for young people who have left abroad, but you also condemn the generation that comes and condemns our country to a lasting Brain Drain. For us, the prolongation of change and hope, education is the main means of social liberation, development and collective prosperity. It is the way to social equality, without stereotypes, exclusions and margins. It is the most important chapter of the new social contract, since I have now heard that you all copy our own phrases, practices and history, I dare say. It is most important that we proceed without stereotypes, exclusions and margins. So it is the most important chapter that our home country needs in this new era of great risks and great opportunities. Prime Minister, you just wasted one of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u140	It will take the floor immediately after the Government, the Minister of State, Professor, Mr. Gerapitris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill follows on from a series of reform actions by the current government, which started with the establishment of the National Authority for Higher Education, continued with funding and research, ends up with an overall vertical education structure. Other relevant actions will be taken so that the dynamic reform plan is completed in very short time. This will include vocational education, support structures for educational materials and higher education. If anyone wants to characterise this bill, I think it could be summarised in three fundamental axes: universal evaluation, open education and constant vigilance. Global evaluation is within the genome of present governance. The evaluation of school units, as well as the educational project, which will also have an internal and external character, is now immediately introduced. All types of evaluation shall be strengthened. A framework shall be established for the relocations, so as to ensure the minimum degree of merit in order to allow for the relocation and to create a proliferationary degree. The second pillar of lasting vigilance - I think - is what the bill characterizes. The bill actually reflects the adaptation to the necessary conditions of modern education, which is not sterile, but is following models that are best practice. We have new educational modules, workshops, which involve very modern and innovative groups, such as ecology, volunteering, sexual education, entrepreneurship, robotics, new technologies. In addition, there is the logic of courses which are conducted almost in all advanced educational systems, which actually facilitates holistic education. In other words, anyone who is in one direction must also follow a lesson, which is in the opposite direction, so that it is precisely to ensure that this is not a question of sterile education, but of essential education. At the same time, of course, there is a double moleculosis in the vulnerable areas that we all know are suffering at the level of education. Finally, we have open education, an education that will be open to the world, extrovert. She'll take the stimuli. Foreign language will be taught from kindergarten. There will be support in the first grades of primary school, but above all a great extroversion of Greek universities who know that they have the educational potential to lead Europe and the world by adopting only a decision by the same universities of the possibility of undergraduate foreign language courses, whether common or double with foreign universities, an innovation which I feel will bring a real revolution in the field of the Greek university. Other issues which have long been solved in advanced educational classes in Greece are even late, so that what we all want, namely education, can eventually be transformed into genuine education. It will be the greatest interest our society will get, as Benjamin Franklin would have said. I would like to say a little more - you will allow me - to deal with the issue of models and experiments for which I have a great deal of sensitivity. From five we go to the twenty - eight standards and thirty - four experimental schools. Basically, the education that had been established in Greece since the 19th century has been established with the three major educational establishments: Ionideo, Varvakeio and Zosmia School of Ioannina, which is later part of the public system. In other words, they reflect the basic principle of equality in education. I listen carefully to the argument that this is a form of education that promotes inequality and elitism. You will allow me to say that this is a distortion of the structure. This is because both individual and institutional standards and experimental schools contribute substantially to the upgrading of pupils and education as a whole. At individual level because what is happening is precisely the lifting of social inequalities by facilitating social mobility between classes. In other words, to give the genuine opportunity to equal opportunities for all children to be able to join a school which will grow even further and promote their own skills at the level that they can respond to. That's our tradition. We must not ignore our own tradition. And the ancient Greek tradition. Xenophon said: The exquisite beams are the nature of education they are bound. Those who are excellent in particular want special training. But at institutional level, the improvement of education as a whole through standards and experimental schools cannot be ignored. Cumulating knowledge is not enough. Education must inspire evolution. And this inspiration for evolution comes just when we set high targets. Watch the difference. The logic is that we want all schools to become standards. It is actually equality, but equality upwards, not the least common denominator that everyone wants in the context of a balancing that has been overcome in any country in the world. What is crucial in the bill is that all school units from the next teaching year are able to join the programme of models and experiments so that they can actually become standards and experimental ones: the ultimate proof that we are walking to a school that will be genuinely better for everyone. You'll allow me a little personal reference. Today was not the best day for me to be in the speaker's seat because of a health problem, but I couldn't miss this opportunity, I felt it as a debt to my own teachers, and I felt it and, if you like, an unfulfilled prophecy. I could not ignore the argument that I heard that because I am the product of a model of school and a product of public education as a whole, I am according to an unmistakable presumption and a product of elite produced by the place. I would like to say today humbly that I feel thankful for coming from a model public school, the Ionian Standard School of Piraeus. It was the one who opened the way for me to come to law school, then come to academic life and be among you today. It is where I actually saw what genuine education means and there I would not be because I did not have the necessary resources. I come from a very small social family, we didn't have the resources. This opened the way for me and I feel thankful today. And my own short story is a story of many people of my own generation that standards and experimental schools opened them up the way of categorisation, social mobility, a better future. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I want to say that I feel very honored. It is the only price I can feel the fact that what I did thanks to the public education system, in which I owe it where I am today, I did it without any conscious discounts, always coming up a step - stepping up social mobility, so that we can find ourselves here today. If this route makes me an elite product, then I want to say that I accept that I am an elite. However, I completely doubt the motives of all those who consider elite to be those people who were distinguished by the public education system against any prejudice or any party channel. I am also pleased that the roll-call vote will take place here. I want to see my dear friends and graduates, Thanasis Paphie, George Karugalos, see if they feel the same level of gratitude to our professors in Ioniania, who gave us the lights so that we can all be here today. Because there were only children of low social classes. He wasn't a elite. Everyone came from the Piraeus Region and everyone today offers home. Nowadays two worldviews are colluding. It's the worldview of vision that really wants high goals, an amenity of the future, and it's the moderate one that wants a level downwards. What we cannot reach will have to go down, in the name of absolute and outdated equilibrium. I want to close by thanking my teachers. Today I'm fulfilling a debt to them. Because first of all, they gave me a life model. And you know, the model was that these teachers had the humility to be evaluated every day. The evaluation we are all denying today! And they had the humility to receive evaluation even from their students. And I keep this model to this day. And I feel grateful to the teachers, especially, for the younger generations and my students. Today is an opportunity with our vote to open a big window. Instead of having the mirror of closed education that only sees itself, let us at last open a big window for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Greek Communist Party, will speak, then the Prime Minister, Mitsotakis, and then the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, will speak. Let us prepare for the Step now, because we may have very good results in dealing with the pandemic, but we must show this in society now that the opening is taking place - risk and remains alive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you brought a bill for consultation within the pandemic, with closed schools, universities, without any real possibility in the world of education, students, teachers, parents, students to discuss, organize general meetings. Of course, the Minister said that, in the midst of a pandemic, people could be placed through consultation. The consultation took place. What's the conclusion, gentlemen of the government? The vast majority of schools in consultation are negative in your bill. You have turned against you the whole world of education. It's this world that really fights. They are the teachers who fight to support their students, their children with all means and at the same time claim, fight. They are the parents who are trying to make them accomplices to the great deadlocks of the system, which you are defending, by invoking individual responsibility - again - when you renounce your own state responsibility to substantially support schools. However, compulsory education means that the state is obliged to ensure all conditions for the effective and equal access of pupils to knowledge and not to throw the ball at parents. It's the students who haven't been locked up for three months in the four walls of their homes, now you're putting them other obstacles to be educated. On the one hand, they are considered mature to vote and elect Members in the Greek Parliament and, on the other, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have excluded them from being placed in the bill, what we are discussing today, in the Committee on Moroccan Affairs of Parliament. That's hypocrisy. It is also the students who become a ball between the Ministry of Education and University Administrations about when and how it will be examined when to complete the studies. Now the situation is, at least, outrageous. The government has done absolutely nothing, has done nothing to ensure the smooth completion of the six-month and exam, and as a result students go blindly and teachers are invited to discover how to square the cycle. We are asking ourselves - and with us, of course, is the people who are following us, who live in this situation in education - is it possible for this problematic situation in the education of our children to be played between the Government of New Democrat Republic and SYRIZA by a misplaced performance with shared roles and a well-known scenario, entitled 'the donkey said the flying head'? So, should the people and youth thank you too? And what exactly would he please you for? For wanting to make the learning life of our children with the unacceptable amendment? About the fact that elementary schools don't work all day? What are the parents working? Do you want to be told "thank you" that, while everyone is talking about avoiding conspiracy, you are legally bringing up - anyway unacceptable - the maximum number of pupils per class in kindergartens and in primary school in twenty-five, which will result in reductions, divisions or even forced movements of children into schools outside their homes. About the fact that we're still waiting for permanent school teachers appointments? And how are lessons going to start in September? Switched? To thank you for continuing to swing four-year-old and five-year-old in a container in a high school and high school yard? Why do you not abolish this unacceptable article that was passed on to SYRIZA? You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, - because it is not too long you have ruled and our people do not forget - what exactly can we thank you for? To open the appetite in the New Democracy to complete the conversion of high school into a vast examination arena with the notorious Law Gabroglou? Didn't you talk about all-Greek types of tests that the government is now carrying out with the topic bank? Didn't you say that high school had to be a tutorial to restore its role so that children wouldn't go to school and do no absences in the third grade at the end of the year? Did the internships get down this year? It is a rhetorical question, because you have accepted the congratulations from the great care chains, the same congratulations, of course, that the New Democracy is receiving today. They know better than that. Should you thank the deputys for making them hunt papers and certifications and for paying over and over? You said the request for thirty thousand permanent appointments is populist and extreme, so do you still believe it? Finally, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do not cry too much for the day-to-day that is not working. Who voted for the law that abolishes the steadfast teacher in the full-day municipality? Unfortunately, this is the situation today. And you, Mrs. Kerameus, what are you suggesting? Upgrade. That's a really nice word. That is why almost all the education bills contain it. You've upset education in upgrading. That is why the demonstrations are being held, because - so long - they do not want to upgrade teachers, parents, students? Let's get serious at last! You have also put a number of trolls, parrots hiding the claims of student clubs who ask for substantial steps to be taken to make the examination, even by living. And they dare to talk about lazy and a minor effort. You're targeting, gentlemen of the government, the student movement that's fighting, but it won't pass on to you after all. So tell us about this, why you are not deciding to make a number of conference centres available for the examinations and living. You have it for big businesses and conference tourism only. Is that why you don't give it to students? Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the substance of the bill you brought in. You have found the candy sucked by the OECD and the European Union, and SYRIZA used it with another wrapping, of course, then. What do you think? an assessment equal to an upgrade of quality. In fact, you call on the fact - falsely - that there is no assessment of education in Greece as opposed to other capitalist states. We'll answer that, too. Do you know the famous text of the US Education Ministry 2008 entitled ‘A Nation in account’? In this text, therefore, the objective of extending the evaluation of the educational process was once again set in motion. What have they achieved so far in the United States? Watch some videos online and you'll see them. You'll see there high school graduates or college not know the history of their country, not know where a number of countries are around the world. Let me not even mention the various irrational conspiracy theories that they give and take in a country with assessed - we are supposed to, not to forget - an educational system. And you're presenting all this as innovative and modern. You will say 'Here is Greece, here is Europe, we have another culture, another culture'. But does not such problems appear in Europe too? So many academics complain about the level of their students in states with a strong evaluation culture, to mention a phrase by Mr Gavroglou, which told us that this - supposedly - is missing from Greece. What does it mean to say that the school values its work on the basis of the learning results and does it even post the findings of the online evaluation? And who is responsible for the learning results? The school, the teachers, the family? Be careful, because you will lead to a situation where schools will be with the bogeyman now many speeds of law. Others, then, are the problem. This beautiful "evaluation" dictionary, which sounds nice, becomes a problem for the educational process, because it wants to control the reactionary purposes of education, which you and the previous governments have been serving over time. Besides, do teachers today appreciate their work when they get out of class? They don't appreciate what went or didn't go well? Which students should they bend over? Did former students not see their old teachers and run to greet them, as Mr. Gerapetritis said, why in the most sensitive years of their lives the latter supported them, inspired them? Is that what you're talking about? If you are talking about such an evaluation, we inform you that it is happening today, as in other times. So make sure that you support teachers and students further in this, that is, finally train our teachers with modern books of education that reflect the objective reality and not as today with the various school books, which tell teachers to tell students that there are many truths that teach the mother tongue from cooking recipes. You were being garnished to put English from kindergarten, like that's what we're missing now and everything else we've got. Others are the priorities, Minister, for pre-school age. Make sporting places, school gardens for infants, other students. The others will come sooner or later, don't worry. But you tell us, we want a school that gives modern knowledge, not a sterile memorization, but an experiential learning - you say it - and that these are even the mild skills we put into school. However, things are very serious and it is so serious that on this issue of skills you also have the full support of both SYRIZA and KINAL and they are so serious, because that is what the European Union is demanding. This obsession, however, shows the reaction of the system you are serving. It is the answer that capitalism itself gives to what man, what a worker wants to take off school to be efficient and exploitable, that is, even cheaper for big capital, in order to swallow worn values and consider them to be in his own interests. All this is, of course, the classic content of your policy and not generally and abstractly the origin of some Members, as I heard a New Democracy MEP say yesterday, who said it was allergy when he heard about class in education. We wonder what you're going to tell students about dependencies when you make decisions that conserve and perpetuate dependency, all kinds of dependency? What about the destruction of the environment when you hand over the forests north to the large private individuals for the capitalist gain, when you let the cassettes of death work, the CYTAs resulting in the evacuation of cancers? What are you going to say about human rights when the unemployment and the payment of students' parents are ejected when health becomes a commodity? This modern categorisation of semi-learning and complete confusion in youth must not pass. And don't tell us that you're talking about other skills that are considered - and quite rightly - as necessary. We're not talking about them. Create workshops at all schools. Create school gardens if you want substantial experiential learning and not through image, as if children had no hands, they have no more senses and give that is necessary for all. Because we're very afraid that you're taking it elsewhere, because today in a series of schools they're making such programmes, but parents put their hand in the pocket again. That's what you want, schools autonomously in name, but in fact entirely dependent on the parents' pocket and on some sponsors. However, this reactionary conception of school was also tested in the pandemic and collapsed at the time of the need for central intervention to strengthen school infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, we have told you that youth will find its way, will find a way to defeat the dark that is spreading. It's not enough you've made life a skateboard for students with the endless school-training school, now you're also putting the topic bank that was abolished with the students' struggles. Don't go over there at SYRIZA, because your own idea of exams in school groups at the theme bank was photographing, under another name, of course, to keep just the pretexts. And what do you say, gentlemen of the government, to promote this unacceptable measure? You say the matter has to come out. You say what they had arrived at Christmas, and you had not yet sent teachers to a pan-Hellenic course, even here in Attica, so as not to talk about insular or insular schools. But you have also found the solution for these schools, as Mr Liakos suggested on SYRIZA with his famous conclusion, which was welcomed as a product of creative thought by the then Minister, Mr. Friend, a camera in schools. Well, to make it clear, the thing bank in our view, in the educational community's view, is a non-educational measure, because when teachers run the material in real terms, they're forced to work with a few children. There will be other children who remain behind who cannot follow these rhythms and who will literally be discouraged from continuing the education process, as they will thicken the gaps they have or even if they can watch the rhythms are forced even more strongly to strangle, not to substantially assimilate knowledge. Evidently this also has a social sign. They are mainly children who do not have the ability to take care of care or have had problems with teachers. In any case, they are children starting from another starting point of view of education. However, this will have a disastrous effect, because the personal responsibility of the teacher for what is going on in his classroom will be neglected, his ability to adapt as best as possible the content and method of teaching to the specific needs of his students. It turns even more intensely into an examination coach and certainly this will not pass. Let us now move on to see the provisions for universities soon. Almost every provision of the bill comes to light on the reality that has led to the current situation in universities, because unfortunately none of what is outraged by the university community today is derived from the pandemic, but from the core of the policy on universities that have been respectfully promoted and implemented by all the governments and by all the Ministers for Education in recent years. To say this anyway, the line that unites the legislative interventions of everyone, not to say their names, of the ministers of the last decade until now can be devastated, but is continuous. The Government of New Democracy, under the pretext of attracting foreign-language students, as if universities were something like tour operators, also opens up the way to in and generalize tuition fees and undergraduate courses following the respective arrangements of the SYRIZA government's predecessor who, in its days, not only entered the bases for such projects, but were even more generalized than those in postgraduate degrees. It is precisely these tuition fees that even in the midst of pandemic the government and the administrations of the institutions refuse to cut. SYRIZA's alleged criticism that in the Council of State the ban on the participation of Greek students would be disgraceful if it were not at least outrageous for SYRIZA to try to fortify behind such arguments in order to hide its essential association with the Government and these issues. If that is not the case, why have you rejected, gentlemen of SYRIZA, together with the New Democracy, the proposal of the JRC that the priority to be given to the Euro-Union should also be constitutionally guaranteed? At the government of SYRIZA, the foundations for such programs began to come in. In his days, students first graduated from high school in undergraduate programs with tuition at the Greek Open University were introduced. What you are now saying opposition to the New Democracy is the same argument you have put forward in order to promote the further equation of colleges with the Greek universities. So let the gentlemen of SYRIZA not hide behind fig sheet. With the provision for foreign-language projects with tuition fees, partnerships with foreign universities, summer programs and others, the activities of the university are attempting to expand - a business that will trade in curricula and other products and services. In fact, the violent turn in telecommunications in pandemic months has even more opened up the appetites of those who are looking forward to finding a greater purchasing audience, to sell foreign - language programs. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are hypocritically talking about the restoration of law, to bring about a regulation that literally cuts the right of children of the people's families to study at their homes. It is challenging to establish this arbitrary threshold in the base difference in an attempt by the government to maintain a clientele and for the new outbreaks that it wants to build with PPPs to ensure the operational profits of the major entrepreneurs with whom it is going to co-operate. The right to act is to solve the problems of thousands of children in the air and cannot attend lessons, take pause, have free feedingstuffs. The law is to strengthen, with the responsibility of the State and exceptional funding, student care and not to be delivered to individuals and to be given the drop-proof as long as the profitability of the few bears back. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC is voting against this unacceptable bill. Of course, the Ministers for Education will change, as will the governments, but the drawers remain the unpaid political requirements left to each other. That is why it is important and we will do everything we can to make it difficult for you, for the good of children, students, students, their families, for the good of Greece, for society as a whole, to open up the way for a society that really guarantees that every young person and young person will have the education he deserves. Stop swinging the finger on our people's children, blam them for lazy efforts, for you and the so-called excellent ones, who do - as we say - together and common secret - and mass copying. Students, students, their parents know very well what it's like to study and have to work for you to live. Yes, in the pitfall built, the dilemma for life and the future of young people, to be able to breathe, is one: a school for a few and chosen - capitalist barbarism, namely - or education of equals and many, a new society, a socialist society? Essentially, two streets are struggling: parasites on the one hand, real creators of wealth on the other. Finally, it will triumph the law - we are sure of it - real education and life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u144	The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u145	I am pleased, Mr President, that we are still here in the Greek Parliament to give the good example of the attention which we all have to show, because the coronary, as you have rightly said, has not left us yet. And as we gradually open up our society to all economic activities, we must all be double careful. Ladies and gentlemen, a positive development of national dimensions requires that I begin with my speech in this House today. Yesterday Greece signed the first agreement to establish an Exclusive Economic Zone. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In cooperation with Italy, the maritime areas that each country can exploit were defined, and with a guide both under International Law and the Law of the Sea, it was recognised in the most official way that island territories have sovereign rights, as did land. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is very important, as you can see, for our country's overall national strategy. This agreement is a model of understanding between Greece and Italy, which faces a forty years. But it is also an international event that restores clear rules to the Mediterranean Sea and is now being registered as a historical, political and legal precedent for the whole region. As I have already pointed out, with neighbouring Italy, we have achieved the waters that unite us to make them calm, a place of peace and cooperation in the common interest. From this point of view, such bilateral conditions will hopefully follow on from other states in our region. Yesterday's development, of course, came neither sudden nor accidentally. It is a result of systematic and quiet work, which demonstrates that Greece can and must have national self-confidence, because it always has international law with it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are, of course, many and powerful allies. It also has the knowledge, pride and strength within it to defend its rights whenever necessary and where appropriate. I am pleased that this national success has substantially welcomed the whole of the country's political world. There should be no meaningless differences and party tensions on these issues. I hope that this climate of national consensus, which I always seek, is maintained and - why not? - to extend to other subjects, such as the question of the education we are discussing today. Speaking today of education, I can only begin by saying that I thank the teachers, the students, the parents of the students who have kept learning alive in the sanitary storm. What cannot be changed is paralyzed during this unprecedented crisis, the world of knowledge in Greece has shown an unprecedented adaptability to the exceptional circumstances. Despite the great difficulties taught but mainly the teachers gave their best to do distance education. They did it in schools too, they did it in universities. And in schools, in difficult return to the rooms, they all acted zealously and maturely. Remote education, Minister, is a great conquest for our country. No one will claim that he can ever replace the class or university amphitheater. However, it is an extremely useful complementar tool and the pandemic has created a knowledge base and a cognitive object, on which we must build and be able to strengthen further distance learning, whether we are talking about additional training for pupils and students, or about the effective training of our teachers and teachers, which is the first political priority of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said so many times since this Step, and I said so in the process of reading the programme statements, investment in education is a precondition for national survival. The ten-year-old economic crisis has highlighted it, the long-term health adventure has proved it. There is no effective state without its decisions being based on scientific knowledge, but there are no responsible citizens without knowledge and without open mind. All this offers only a modern, open education system to everyone, a training system which will give equal weight to positive sciences, but also to humanitarian studies, a training system - in other words - of high expectations but also high requirements. Perhaps this is one of the few cases where a simple title in a bill deserves its essence: "School upgrading" material, structural and institutional, but mainly the improvement of quality, reform of the programmes, modernisation of the educational work in kindergartens, high school and high school and a series of important improvement regulations relating to our public universities. It is true that the coronary attack delayed the introduction of the bill to the National Representation. I would remind you that the bill was first presented to the Ministerial Council at the end of February. However, this did not prevent dialogue with operators or public consultation. Because I have also heard from the Communist Party a number of objections about the timing of the draft law, I would like to point out to the National Representation that almost fifteen thousand - for the accuracy of 14 thousand seventeen - comments to the Ministry of Education. Many of the comments made by the public consultation and many of the comments made by colleagues during the discussion of the bill in the committee responsible found their position in the bill. Proof that despite the rhetoric upheavals of democracy in quarantine, our democracy and parliamentarianism worked and was able to be truly productive in the case of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on six major innovations, which this bill introduces. And I have tried to monitor - as far as I was permitted - the debate in the committee responsible and in the plenary, and I am still trying to understand all six pillars on which they are based, where the objections of opposition are based, because it is very easy to dismantle such a bill using a lot of clichés and a chip of the past. However, I wonder whether there is a substantial different view of how we really need to reform the curriculum, starting from the bottom up, from the kindergarten, going to primary, high school and high school, for children in the first grade in 2020 and completing their twelfth year of study, in at least secondary education, in 2032! The children who enter primary school in September will finish school in 2032 and we will all have to plan for this future, which is changing at such speed and we will have to, yes, enrich what we are teaching our children today, not only how we teach it, but what we teach them. So I wonder whether the introduction of skills workshops with four important thematic circles - euphemism, environment, social responsibility and creative thinking and initiative - serves or does not serve this purpose. In our view, it serves him and I find it difficult to find a different argument why these themes should not be taught, which will obviously be adapted by age, by class, on issues that children will encounter in their lives, such as volunteering, ecological sensitivity, road safety, protection against natural disasters, sexual discipline, which was and to some extent remains taboo for our schools - unjustifiedly respecting each other, tolerance to diversity, prevention of dependency, basic public health principles have come to the surface with great intensity because of the coronary. But also cognitive objects such as entrepreneurship, robotics, new technologies, why not artificial intelligence, so why should our children not be taught today by supplementing the timeline, which covers the basic cognitive objects with which our children should be acquainted? Our aim is not only to form children who have access and knowledge and possession of knowledge, but also to form right and responsible people of their time, a time that changes at such a fast pace. Secondly, in our view, progress is, yes, getting acquainted with foreign languages from an early age. I have heard various arguments, which I can best call them completely unscrupulous, that the ability that Greeks can communicate or learn English is a project of international conspiracy, imperialism or I do not know what interests. I think it's time we got serious. Most European countries have been teaching a second foreign language to children in kindergarten since the age of four. That is our intention, and I must say to you - because I have studied this issue closely - on the presumption that the scientific community recognises that the child's brains at childhood have a lot of plasticity and much more ability to absorb different languages than children at older age. That's what science tells us! That's not questionable. The views that claim the opposite - Mr Philly, I saw you move your head - are minority opinions. Can I tell you something? Anyone with children knows that very well. He knows how fast children can access both in a second and a third language - and not to involve this learning with their mother tongue at all - and how many children learn and capture the language, the pronunciation in a very young age and can unintentionally, with less effort, assimilate a second or possibly a third language. And we come today to claim the opposite? On what scientific data is this viewpoint based? In any case, if we do not want, Mr Pafile, to learn English and we want to learn Russian, Chinese or other languages, we are here to talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u146	SYRIZA said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u147	But we have no illusion that English today is the "lingua franca" of this planet and that is the language with which children must have their first familiarity from an early age. Can I tell you one more thing, Mr. Friend? I do not understand if, at the end of the day, the policy of not learning a foreign language at an early age has classic characteristics, that in the end families with a greater financial capacity are caring for and able to provide for children to learn a foreign language from a younger age, and that children who do not have that opportunity are at a disadvantage when they arrive at six, seven or eight. Do we not know in this Chamber what scientists tell us, namely that the child's brain and the ability to absorb knowledge is shaped at a very young age? Therefore, we have an obligation to give children early and not later all the necessary stimuli. We do not know that the class inequalities that children may accompany as a result of cognitive shortcomings can be the result of what we do to these first six, seven, eight years of children's lives? That is why we attach so much importance to kindergarten and to what happens in the first grades of primary school. This is very important. Will the image of kindergarten or primary school change with these interventions? Oh, no! I will say again that I do not claim - and I do not think anyone is saying - that a bill, however good it is, can change the whole picture of public education, which carries many problems. However, I believe that it is an important step in the right direction, such as an important step, in our view, is the assessment of high school performance and the broadening of the courses in question. We don't go to the thirteenth lessons, how many were, before you change the law and go to four, but yes, we add to the basic courses under consideration, such as Ancients, Biology, English and Informatics. And general education is reinforced with the bases of classical. On this occasion, I would like to make a reference to a subject which has caused many reactions - I think you are unequal, and I think that the government's real intention may have been distorted - to indicate the conduct of qualifications. I am willing to listen to all the opposite considerations. But I do not understand why the school simply confines itself to the transmission of knowledge and not morals. I do not understand why school should simply teach mathematics, language, biology or chemistry and not teach rights, but also obligations. And why should students, one example, be mentioned only, should teachers act against phenomena such as intra-school violence? Are the first people not in need of models of behavior and the second, the teachers, unable to evaluate and consult children? Should there ultimately be an evaluation mechanism for children's behavior at school? As to the argument I have heard today, will the conduct accompany the child for the whole of his life as a stigma of some misbehaviour, do you not tell me, does it not apply to the degree of dismissal? When a child, for example, has a high grade and a child has a low grade, is this not going to be taken into account by someone who sees the dismissal? In any case, should the child or should he not be aware, not with a punishing attitude, that there is a filter that he evaluates and his behavior at school, when we have to deal with - to anyone who is a parent - such big issues as bullying and some creepy behaviours of young children, which are engaged in acts that one cannot easily justify? And I do not necessarily want to blame the child for such actions. But do we want or do we want a behavioral evaluation filter? We call it 'diction'. Its character will be determined by Ministerial Decision. It can be descriptive, we may have to escape the word "world" and "cosmite" that may refer to another era. However, this is not the main issue of today's debate. The question is whether or not there should be an evaluation of the behaviour of children. In our view, there must be and this serves this article of the bill. I now come to a next large section of the bill for which, I believe, only a few words have been written at another time. I read: "The organization of schools must be based on the mental development of children and their interests and on the needs..." - it is of interest - "... of the professions. The selection of qualified and qualified children must be made the only criterion for their classification in the different kinds of schools.’ This passage concerns a public and democratic institution that has been slandered and slandered even today, it has been fought and fought even as few as it is today, the standards and experimental schools, which have been characterised by representatives of SYRIZA as a carcinoma, I repeat carcinoma, in the hearts of public education. The quote that I read, Mr. Friends and ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is written in 1927 by Dimitris Glinos, a visionary, a left reformer of education at a time when everyone in Greek society was aware - and first of all, this was understood by the Left - what is the model school. It is a school that in other words enables students with special skills to compete in the good sense of other children with special skills. It was not a mechanism for producing elite or proliferating discrimination in society. It was a social mobility belt that enabled children from poor families, who did not have the opportunity at that time and today do not have the opportunity to seek - within introductorys - "a refuge" in private education, to be able to distinguish themselves and go to schools that will support these separate skills. I think it was worth listening to and the speech of the Minister of State on this matter was very interesting. Mr. Gerapitris spoke on behalf of thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of graduates from the flagship models and experimental schools of this country, people who have largely distinguished themselves to the Greek society, people who have struggled to gain a better education, who have not feared hard work, but who have seen quality education as an opportunity to build a better life. And I ask, today, in this Chamber, the representatives of the Left: why should these children not have the right to go to a model school? Why shouldn't they have tests so they can get into this standard school so they can really be in a school environment with similar children who have these possibilities? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yes, there are charismatic children in Mathematics, in languages, as there are charismatic children in Gymnastics and Music and this gift in some way must be supported and cultivated. And it doesn't make anything different about the model school than that. Experimental school does something different, but equally important. For a random stratification of children it enables us to test new models of education, new cognitive objects, something equally important, so that we can transfer these messages, experiences and experiences to the public education system as a whole. So I am still not really aware of this persistent refusal to try to strengthen standards and experimental schools unless the real concern is another. Unless the real concern is evaluation. Because, yes, we are quite clear that in standards and experimental schools there will be an increased framework of evaluation of the school units of the schools themselves and also of the teaching work itself. For the remaining schools we start from the evaluation of school units. But what's going on? How big should the fear of evaluation be so that it can lead you to this policy? When we trust our teachers as valuable as we have, the education of our children, I think it is at least irresistible, outdated, short-sighted, not to recognise at the outset that, yes, this work must somehow be evaluated. This government on evaluation issues won't back up. As it will not do behind and the need to support in a firm and systematic way children who have the greatest needs. For the first time, there are permanent appointments of teachers in special education. The final tables were posted. Four and a half thousand teachers and specialist teachers and assistant staff are recruited. Permanent officials in special treatment will begin to support these children with so many special needs, as well as special skills from September. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the field of higher education, where two important steps have already been taken forward. Rehabilitation of the real asylum, so that universities can become the cells of creation again. Nearly one year after the adoption of this regulation in the first bill introduced by the new government to the National Representation, despite the individual problems that still exist, this objective is achieved and followed by the law on the national higher education authority. The linking of university funding to progress, the liberalisation of research and measures which the universities release from tight state embrace and allow them to exploit human and material resources. Today the above reforms are framed by another important intervention concerning higher education in three directions, the modernization of the administrations of universities, the rationalization of the student transfer framework, the stimulation of the extroversion of higher education institutions. The promotion process of the Republican authorities is also being reviewed. Crews are now elected for a term of four years to have the time to be able to carry out their work better. Candidates, counter-enlargements, will be included in a single ballot, staying away from groupings, extraordinary purposes, and electronic voting will make participation simpler. It will ensure that the election takes place. It also improves the context of the relocations. An additional academic criterion is established for the first time. In order to transfer a student from one section to another, his rating should not be too low than that which he had in that section. We have been very concerned about this provision, and I have to say that I have spoken with too many teachers, and the picture that is systematically conveyed from our universities is that many times children who come from universities who have had a much lower degree of introduction than the university or the department in which they are relocated have difficulty in attending and competing with the quality of the education of the rest of the students. I would aside the fact that universities find it difficult to make any serious programming if they suddenly find themselves with a significantly larger number of students than they had planned. But the question is about the level we set ourselves and the limit that we set for someone to enter a university. That is why we have the pan-Hellenic exams. The kids don't get into a draw. There is an objective merital procedure. One may criticise her on many points, but its objectivity and merits are not questioned, which is, in fact, largely distorted by the system of transcriptions. Yes, we want to support families and lighten them in income, allowing them to make relocations, as yes, we want to support the universities and especially the regional universities to be able to provide services to students, which are such as to reduce the financial burden to a minimum, to go to study away from their permanent residence. I have listened with interest to an observation from Mr Koutsouba that we are allegedly moving on to PPP projects for students, because this is how we want to premium or not to premium the transfer. I didn't exactly understand his reasoning, but I ask, why is it wrong today to have more student homes in our regional universities? Many regional universities have advanced such projects with the participation of the private sector in order to become what are the most modern universities abroad, public and private universities, which can afford their students free residence, at least for those children who do not have financial capacity, so that they do not have to resort to relocations so that they can afford the financial burden of study away from the permanent residence. So that is what we want to do, but at the same time we have a limit, a framework in which translations can be made, and of course we are strengthening the extroversion of the Greek universities, which can now establish foreign-language undergraduate programmes without the prior approval of the Minister. We have talked many times about how we want to get the universities out of suffocating bureaucracy and the control of the Ministry of Education and thus strengthen their self-government and that is what we are doing. Basically, we institutionalise the common, join, double, dual courses, between Greek and foreign higher education institutions, as well as summer programs, where we will have the opportunity online. We intended to invite them to Greece, but unfortunately the coronary caught up with us. We will discuss Monday with almost all the leading American universities, which are very interested in concluding such strategic agreements with public Greek universities. It is a very important initiative, a future window for the Greek universities, which have enormous potential, but until recently they wanted but could not. Now what they want and I hope that's a lot - I think it's most, why not all, not want to get into such programs? - to be able, without the need for supervision by the Ministry of Education, to conclude such agreements. Of course, yes, we have said so many times, we want to attract to Greece our public universities foreign students who will pay tuition fees and make Greece a training centre in the south-eastern Mediterranean. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you disagree to tell us. You say yes, we clearly disagree with this policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the major areas of education have only welcomed and rooted when they finally met with a large, expressed or perhaps even a figurative demand from our society when they combined its democratisation with the parallel functioning of education as a group of social mobility and individual advancement. And that's what Eleftherios Venizelos teaches since 1929 in 1932. I'm opening a parentheses. I had the opportunity with the Minister of Education to visit a primary school in Kallithea, built on the Prime Minister of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1931. And I must say that it was impressive and the design and quality of the construction of these schools. However, these ambitious reforms were also the reform of George Papandreou in 1964-1965, the introduction of municipality - let us not forget that - since George Rally in 1976. Despite its many weaknesses, the 1982 framework law was an incision to things. Of course it is Mr.4009/2011, a law that met an unprecedented parliamentary consensus on that data. It was the New Democracy that took the courage to vote for Diamantopoulou. We were in Opposition and then we supported this law. I then, as a mere MEP, played a small part in trying to convince our party to do this great excess. It was a law that made a lot of bold reforms, but unfortunately it then accommodated and degraded, with responsibility for all the factions. I don't exclude ours either. It would really be a good job, if not at least in the whole bill, even in some aspects of it - perhaps in some of the axes I have spoken about - we could recognise the need for a necessary consensus. I would really like to see the Chief of Staff Responsibility coming to this Step and instead of just criticising - criticism is welcome and obviously we have very different views on how we perceive education - to say 'yes, there are three, four, five points on which we can agree' and to form at least one framework on issues that I think are self-evident. I don't know if he will. I'll try to be here this afternoon. For some reason, Mr Tsipras insists on avoiding the discussions of the other political leaders present and speaking in other times than we are the rest of us, but in any case I will hear what he has to say and it would be a wishful task if some of these - in our view - naturally positively positive of this bill recognised them and thus modulated a mood to look forward, with unity, always taking into account what is good for the next generation, which will come to study, study at the public school and at the public university. I close with another reference from the past and read: "The school stands above every temporary party rival, above all against social classes. The school reflects the totality and the national total. Emphasizing this feeling and cultivating its multilateral bluntness, the school is convinced that, when its graduate comes out to society, it will not act against the wholeness of society in whatever social order it belongs." These are words of another enlightened reformer from the left, Alexander Delmuzos, to the students of Marasleios Teacherios in 1925. I would not change a single party or a perfect one, which is why I urge you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, has then been asked for the floor in Stepma. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by referring to the date of today, June 10, 1941. Nazis burn the Distomo, kill two hundred and eighteen residents. But until today we have been talking here - how many years - it has not been signed for damages by anyone, by any government, by SYRIZA or by New Democracy, by any of you. No Minister has promoted the confiscation of the building. He wants a signature of a Justice Minister for the Gate Institute building. Why? Tell me. If you tell me why, to discuss this seriously, but I am starting to understand that the veil and the fear of the German Occupation continues even today, with transport and literally and literally, and is demonstrated by developments. Unfortunately, we have been a German province constantly for decades. I'll say something personal to Mr. Gerapetti, whom I respect very much. I sincerely want all my fellow Members to avoid personal attacks. If we have to confront politically, we can do this, but it is wrong what is happening, that is to say it is wrong to have personal attacks on people, not on their political status or behaviour, but on something that has happened in earlier years or on something that is disturbing us from their own personal path. Personal attacks are dishonest to be done to each of us separately and must be avoided by all. Because when you fire oil, you'll get a fire that'll burn the whole political system and then we'll see it later. And I say it because personal attacks at least, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Gerapetritis, from "First Lies" every week, I also have a personal attack, in various things, not on our political presence here, but on anything but our political presence. As the "First Lie" I refer to the well-known newspaper belonging to your ideological party or if you want to be part of it. But personal attacks must be stopped. If we want to confront...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u150	Who are these? Tell us to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u151	The personal attacks? I said it the other day. We were here, but you were gone. It's not my fault, Minister. I was here the other day and I was saying it one by one. Every week read "First Lie", you will see every week and a personal attack. But it doesn't matter. I am very happy today, ladies and gentlemen, because all the political leaders have been here as a matter of urgency. It seemed very strange to me, because you know, I'm not a guest star in the House. Every day I'm here. It's nice to see party leaders coming. It is very nice and correct, because I feel lonely many times, Mr Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, since you are here every day. And the MPs, when their leaders come, everyone gathers here. They leave their leaders, they all disappear, they're beamed. Our job, ladies and gentlemen, is to be here from morning to night. That's why we get paid if I'm not mistaken. And the Prime Minister may have some other work on governance and cannot be here every day. The rest of the political leaders must be here every day, from morning to night, while there are bills. For we have entered the House as Greek Solution and we want to keep the letter of the Greek people's check, which pays us for a job, and that must not be forgotten by any of us! We've got to be here all of us. The empty benches are a sinful story of decades unfortunately. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like to now, since Mr Tasulas presides, and he listens to me, to make him one more complaint. I'm tired of complaining. At some point I don't know what to do? I'll call the police, call the justice, go to S.T.E.Huh? Enforce the Rules of Procedure. This is not the case, Mr President. I want you to tell me, whoever the chief says first, speaks first or according to how he suits the Bureau of Parliament, Mr. Tasoukas at the last minute? Tell me. I made a first statement. I don't have any problem, but keep up for everything. I'm asking for a favor. I will send a letter, Mr President, and I am personally waiting for an answer from you, as I expect an answer when we will be discussing it. You're still answering me. I, Mr President, am here every day. I'm not a guest star. Every day I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u152	May I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u153	You'll answer me later when I finish my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u154	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much. And I'm saying that because I know you're just. I don't know what's going on at times. So I want to understand this: if the president of a party says 'I want to speak first' and then Mr Koutsubas asks me to take the floor? If - I repeat - you can tell us that, not how it suits, we mixed the deck today. Mrs. Gennimatas spoke, Mr. Koutsubas, the Prime Minister, and then I spoke. I do not think it is right under the Rules of Procedure. If you are going to tell me what Rule of the Rules of Procedure says, which paragraph, in order to study it, because it does not apply from what I have seen. I won't talk about the rest. I'm over it. Let's actually go. Madam Minister, I will now speak for you. You're particularly sympathetic to me, because at communication level you're doing it very well. You're dialectic, you listen. But at the level of bills you do what you want. It's the stigma, if you want. That's good. Okay. Of course, I heard something strange from the Prime Minister, who, unfortunately, is not here. I heard him take it in because Mr. Rallys abolished the cleansing. That is why we are no longer speaking Greek, which is why we are no longer speaking Greek. It was a language crime that happened. I'm not saying talking to you and me. But turn back, fifty years back to the Greek Parliament, to see how they have a political reason, not only in the shack, but also in their jointness, politicians and see how we are talking today. You'll tell me, you old-fashioned, conservative. It does not concern me, for the language is not our object, it is an estate of centuries, millenniums, which we deliver to others. That's our view. It was wrong and the Prime Minister could not be taken over for this mistake. For me education, Minister, is the general culture of man. From your bill, I didn't see this coming out. I say this because education, education, culture and culture must come from education. It is a technocratic, ideological bill with, if you like, touches that are specifically positive that we will vote on, but with many negative ones to which we cannot agree. Even now the kids are working in a container class. What can we say? For the computers you're bringing? They need to, too. Take the kids out of the containers, get good cobbled, put good tables on and we'll talk about it for the next stage. When you're in cave age in the educational system, you don't talk about space. There's a huge gap and a distance. For me education is values, it is perceptions, it is the culture of an entire society, a society that affects the spiritual, if you like, the behavior of the individual. It is very important that you understand that you are talking about specialty, while you are not talking about the individual’s spiritual and moral behavior. And here I wonder on the Left. They're bothered by conduct. So, where is the moral behavior of the individual, where is the spiritual, if you like, not the sentence as a penalty, that I write that conduct is cosmopolitan or worldly, but the fact that he feels the child feels that every act and energy also has a result? We can't keep talking about impunity to the child. And when we say 'punishment', we will not beat it. But we have to tell him what he did, it's bad, you go on and your conduct is not good. What's simpler than that? In other words, the impunity that exists in the political system with the'ministerial Responsibility' law must exist in both our schools and wherever in justice? I don't understand the left-wing idea. I can't understand it. It is wrong to tell a child "be better because in your indictment it will write that your conduct is cosmopolitan". Because after he beats his classmates, he'll bully them, he'll do a lot of illegal acts. And when he gets out of there later, it can be the worst of us all. What's education? The obligation to humanize the child's psychic world. I haven't heard of that. I hear various technocratics and they bother me. In other words, we must prepare the ground to join society as a human being. There's no such thing as that! But that must be done through the time-consuming values, my Minister. There are no time-consuming values in our school. And I say it because we're all to blame. And you and the teachers and the teachers, all of us. Tell me at school what time value the child can today assimilate and get. Tell me. We take the pictures off the schools, we remove history, we talk about philosophism, "do not care about you, do not concern yourself", philosophism, that is, continuous. So the child doesn't have the treatment of the timeless values of morality he should have. It is essential that the differentiations of the Greek Solution in relation to what you say is education. It's hard work. And that's reality, because we wouldn't have hundreds of reforms. Every government that comes also brings a bill on education and one on taxation. It's always the case. And not one, five, six, depending. They're also bringing amendments. Whatever government you see from 1974 until now, it brings tax bills, economics, and education bills. And it has never been corrected either. And you know why, my Minister? Because pluralism leads to the lack of serious choices in education. And let me not talk about our universities, about what's going on there. We know most of us in here how graduates get, how some others get doctoral, how they become professors of relatives and friends, my Minister. We all know that. But they are the pathogens of decades. If the New Democracy really wants to create confidence in the Greek that it wants to make a breakthrough in education, we can discuss it seriously. But he wants serious areas. Don't be afraid of the five hundred outsiders, because the life of some parties here feeds on these outsides, how they go on the streets, rallys, marches, etc. If we really want to talk to them, let us tell them: Come here, gentlemen, make suggestions in writing you, the teachers, the teachers, how can we improve school and then we can all have a party together, the parties, and, if you like, the amalgamama, or, if you want, get something out of this thing. You never did. No one does that, because we need to ask the teacher and the teacher, who is the teacher, is not just the teacher, it is the teacher - for "living". Other: 'live', other 'live'. He once said a great form of history, which we all forgot, the Great Alexander. And let me say this: we need to understand that we really need to be able to create the confidence in the child that his second father is his teacher. His second father! He must inspire, though! And here's the false left. The fake left! I'm saying it straight away. I say it because it's ideological to form adversity. Because we are left-wing or fake left-wing, we say 'no' to any neutronism and that means maintenance. If they consider it conservative what I said about language, what is not maintenance when it says at 'yes' level constantly left, whatever left? Because if we do not do Surgeries in Greek education - I repeat - in ten, twenty years, our children will not speak Greek and they will not know that they are different from other people for the fact that they are Greeks, for example by reducing the hours of Religious and History, Minister. My Minister, we are seeing a report on channels asking them what happened in 1453, in 1821, in 1940 and laughing at each other because they don't know. We have to cry because our kids don't know. They don't know what happened. The next generations, basically, will lose connection to something that bound us as a nation. Some may be the word "national" bothering them. I am proud of the Greek nation - and I will be allowed by some in here - because we have created culture, arts, letters, architecture, medicine. They are creations of the ancient Greeks. That's not what I can disconnect from my mind. It can't be done. And this obsession of some who are governed by a bizarre ideological nepotism to find only the negatives from ancient Greece or Byzantium alone to build up the Greek nation and the Greek genus, is annoying me as a human. It's not like the others are lower than us. I say, however, that we have offered global culture, Greek-Roman culture by extension, everything. So why deprive my child of the opportunity to know, Minister, and the difference in being Orthodox Christians, but also that we are in the gender of Greeks who have offered global civilization? Why do you take hours? For what? Why do you take away prayer? Can I tell you something else? Because it's hard for people to afford, I'd rather wear aprons like some schools in America. Smile, Minister. But let me tell you why I'm saying it. Because the parent earns money that way. He doesn't have to make the child take clothes every day and make fun of one child because he has money. Because since we're talking about pods and big guys in here, I see left-handers wearing Luis Vuitton. There goes the little boy with the little boot the expensive one, he sees the poor kid at school, they make fun of it. But if their question were uniform, we would have no such problems. But the fake left or the left and some who play it and a little left from the New Democracy want to level it all. Yeah, why not? Single questioning. So, in America with a single question in college or Germany, is it bad? I don't get it. And I'm going to give you the counterproject because of the financial hardship. The flag, prayer, the cross at every school, in every class. These are things that the child experientially, Mrs. Minister, seeing the image of this thing, is bound to what the word "Greek" means. I'm not talking about chauvinism and militarism. I'm talking about Hellenism as a concept, as an ideology. I don't understand where the steak is. Non-registration of religion and citizenship in qualifications. Why, my Minister? Can I tell you why you did this? Because you have given citizenship to every Hassan and Ibrahim, and you are ashamed to say it now. You gave citizenship. It's illegal what you did. You don't become a Genus. Genus is a genus. The genus Georgiad of my mother, i.e. I come from Georgiadou, Pontia from Samsonda, forgiven, you don't take it away from me and you can't give it to anyone in here. The genus on the root of the Greekity you cannot deprive the Greeks of it and say to him: "I will not put your genus on you, there will be no citizenship". Why? You tell me why you didn't do that. Why are you afraid of this way? No, it's not that, but because you by law of the New Democracy - you gave the genus to every one who came here in a year. And that's your fault, the mistake the big one. Foreignlanguage curriculum. We asked for your commitment, one of which we said we wanted a commitment from you, to say 'yes' to foreign languages. You're all proposing English and you're avoiding to tell me if you're gonna put Turkish in. Why? To put it explicitly, it's English, it's extraterrestrial, it's swahili, it's to believe what you're saying to me is true, Minister. Because I'm afraid we're going somewhere else in a few months. We are going to take it to Turkish, I say, can also be in fake - not Macedonian - I say, it can also be in 'Arvanitika' - in in introductory form, because the Arvanites are Greek - but Albanian, I say, I say, may, perhaps. Why don't you just say what you mean, so we can understand? Because you will then leave, the SYRIZA gentlemen will come and say: "But the New Democracy law said about foreign languages, but it did not tell us which. We will also put them in place." And here's the alibi's route how it goes from here and there. That's not what I can do. It can't be done. Even the foreign student support unit, Article 93, why? Do Greek students, natives, do they have a support unit? Oh, no. Why are you doing this for them in particular? In other words, this dividing mood of equilibrium, equivalency, equilibrium or, if you like, of my equal behaviour is annoying me. It's some kind of card behavior. Whatever Greek you're blaming, whatever Greek you're encircling it. Why? Or - if you want - you degrade it, and that's what bothers me. Since we're all equals and all the same! I have a disagreement here because my father cannot, after fifty years of paying tax and having so much pain, hard work, go to Germany, to the coal mines, sent the money to Greece, have the same rights as one who comes today and gets - whoever Hassan - 500 euros every month and does not get pension and pay his drugs. That's not equivalent, it's not equivalency. You're making mistakes. Now we go to what the Prime Minister said a moment ago. I would be the last in here, ladies and gentlemen, some older people know me - and I would not be happy with the Greek EEZ. I would go up to the seats and applaud my Prime Minister, Mr Gerapetti, because I sincerely appreciate you as a teacher, as a teacher in any case. I want to be clear. I'm one of the first to talk about Greek Exclusive Economic Zone here in Parliament. Mr. Andrianos was here, we talked about it since then, I've been yelling about oil and natural gas and Mr. Kastanides has been here. We were here, and I was the handwriting. I don't mind. Today the Prime Minister came and said he was glad that the whole political system was in agreement. He's wrong. Clearly, I'm glad we're going to EOZ. I regret, however, that this proposal and this agreement are compromised, discounting, co-management and co-existence. We didn't define an EOZ, and I'll explain it to you soon. Because it's not possible to leave a house open, because the EEZ that established - if Greece had established, we didn't see the text, we didn't see it in general - leave the crossroads with islands and Strofades. So what the Prime Minister said about all the islands having an EEZ is not true, because there are asterisks and exceptions. Overseas islands and streps or one exception. The second exception: Exclusive Economic Zone means that the richness in the sea is mine. So when I have two hundred nautical miles of mine in the AOZ, the wealth of the marine, the fishes of God and the garides that exist in Zakynthos and Kefalonia are mine. I can't let the Italian come and take them away from me. So it does not belong to the Exclusive Economic Zone entirely in Greece and we did not do AEZ. I'm starting like this. The worst thing, and of all, is that we are pressing Turkey now to question on the basis of the intersectional islands and the Strofods, Kastelorizo. We can't afford to open a door, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to use it. I know EOZ better than you believe me, and I grieve to say that. I know her! I'm bleeding for AOZ. I've been broadcasting, speeches. When you leave island complexes like the Corridor Islands and the Strofades, you can leave a door open. I'm telling you about the Round Table. I wish I was wrong. Why didn't they put it in? Here's the question. And to prove to you what I'm telling you, the Minister of National Defence came here with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and we were told about the infamous agreement we made, the operation 'IRINI'. If you want me to answer that question. This morning, then, three freshmen of the Turkish navy, escorted commercially loaded weapons to Libya. A fry exists from the "IRINI", this notorious company "IRINI", Greek, "SPAIN". He helicoptered the Greek ship to see who the ship is. Turks were threatened by their warships to leave the Greek helicopter, because it is a Turkish choice and left the Greek helicopter. You got it. They went through the Aegean Sea and went to Libya. So don't tell me things that don't apply. And I'll tell you what mistakes New Democracy has made, because I want to be clear. When you do something in your life, you make mistakes. But this issue is of major importance, it is a national issue. The EEZ is closing doors to Soviet circles in Turkey, if we make it right at some point. Now we've left a ferry to tell you, unfortunately. The common EEZ with Italy does not abolish the Turkish pact, but is questioning it. That's positive, but it's questioning, it's not falling apart. Italy recognises the Greek continental boundaries that Ankara disputes, including islands. Now we're going to the point. Today in Italy they should be jumping. You know that? No reference to any Italian instrument for the EEZ agreement. Or the agreement has not really been reached, because it has to be passed through the Italian Parliament and the Greek Parliament. You must do that, Mr. Gerapitri. This has to go through here, otherwise the agreement doesn't apply. The agreement must be passed by the Greek Parliament and the Italian Parliament. That's well known. What's the deal? Listen a little. We accepted discounts. The Italian Foreign Minister's phrase, because I when I hear a Minister, I do not hear what Dendias says, I hear the man who signes with Dendia, "the historical rights of Italy in relation to the Ionian and Aegean." What are the historical rights of Italy in relation to the Aegean and the Ionian Sea that Mr. Treasury put in front of Mr. Treasury May? The government tell me, because I don't want to talk about the shrimp alone, because if my mind goes to historical rights, it goes to the Dodecanese, it goes to the Intergovernmental Conference. What will he say 'historical rights'? When you sign an international agreement, such as for the law of the sea, there are no historical rights. With the same reasoning, Greece has historical rights in Greece, in Taormina, in Tauromen, in Palermo, in Syracuses, we have historical rights. What reasonable Italian thought was the one testified and no one told us what it was? Also, I'm going to tell you: Tell me which man in here has a plot of two hundred square meters, another two hundred has his neighbor and because his neighbor doesn't grow, he's a lazy or he doesn't have good soil and he's cultivating next to you, you put tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers and various products, his neighbor comes next door, he grabs them and he's leaving. You'll tell me what this has to do with it. He's got the Ionian fish. Because Italy has not fished well, ladies and gentlemen, and since for decades it has been your fault that you have not made fishing zones. Neither New Democracy did SYRIZA nor PASOK. The fishermen, these Italian guys, they were stealing shrimp, stealing fish and leaving. Now you allow them to enter and steal from our field, from our area. That's what we agreed on. This means de jure cancellation of the EOZ, signed. We will become the first country in the world that the declaration of the Exclusive Economic Zone will not be exclusive. It's not exclusive. I want you to understand that. I wish I was wrong. We'll get to a point to say that the Ionian belongs to its fish. Unfortunately, we will say, as Pangalos said, that the Aegean is its fish. We'll say the Ionian belongs to its fish for the Italians. I don't want to believe it's like that, honestly. I don't want to believe that's this thing and that's what this is about. Now, listen, because some people didn't understand what the deal was about. If we give Italy a fishing right, it means co-management, co-existence. You want to understand that? Understand it. You don't want to? It's okay. I'll tell you in a quiet manner. Nor am I telling you traitors, nor are I speaking in favour of the Greek people, because that will be judged by the Greek people in the elections when they vote again and you will be government again. But these mistakes are mistakes. Because, the agreement talks about a reduced influence of islands. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr Katrugalos, who speaks a lot, but he thinks it to me. The agreement talks about a reduced influence on the islands. Look for the deal and read it. They said so yesterday. This means that the Overseas Islands and Strands have no EOZ. What does Turkey say? That the islands don't have an EOZ. What did we accept yesterday? That some islands don't have EOZ. So look at the logic of history, and I wish I was wrong, and I was the liar, the too imaginary, say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u156	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u157	I told you what the deal says. Please don't interrupt me too much. As I hear the Prime Minister with religious reverence, nor do I make nor do I argue with him, I want you to respect others. Thank you. Overseas islands. Listen, so you know what's wrong. I didn't say it was done by any means, because if it's a treason, it's a betrayal. It's negligent. The Strods were given only 35% influence! On the intersectional islands 70%! And for those who know a little what intersectional islands mean, two billion barrels of oil and five billion cubic if I'm not wrong, natural gas, says Professor Zellides. He's a neo-democrat, not ours. He's a geologist. I'm telling you to understand what mistakes you're making. And what you did is nothing but a copy of 1977 on the continental agreement. It's not AOZ, I told you. Professor Triantafylle this morning at SKAI - SKAI - said it was the compromise product agreement. Tell me when the EOZ's right is a compromise with someone else? Tell me when it's a compromise. A compromise means I'm giving something and I'm getting something. We've given something, we've given the Overseas Islands, Strands and catch. What did we get? You tell me. I'll tell you what, so you know, and I'll close here. The delimitation shall extend to the north beyond point one and south beyond point sixteen. What does that mean? A communiqué thanks to which dominance is granted to some regions, the cross-cutting islands, and our EEZ does not arrive until Libya, but it stops, ladies and gentlemen. Listen a little bit to stop half the truths in here. The EEZ you did yesterday stops before Libya does not touch Libya. You cut her off on Plot 16. Let me tell you why. Because the government you're supporting Sarage, which is pro-Turkish, wouldn't agree. You do, that is, a spoon that can't be critical of seriousness. It was created, that is, a three-international Greece - Italy - Libya without Libya. And stop supporting Sarah, get out of there, get out of Saraje. Go to Huffar, I tell you. The government made a formal proposal. I'm filing it in the Minutes. I have Haftar's personal letter in front of me. It's Arabic. It says to you: "Come on, let's do an EOZ." I know what you will say to me: 'We do not recognize your government'. But recognize the gentleman. They give us the right to make an EEZ with them to have a balance with others. What's the deal? The delimitation from the height of Chania - from the Prime Minister's familiars near - to western Crete and extends straight to a line without including a measure from northern Libya and the continental continent. If that's what you call EOZ, I call it pie cut as it suits us. It's not AOZ! No impact has this option on the Turklibi pact. The coordinates of the EOZ do not move to the southern part of the Greek EOZ that should meet many miles southwester to create a three-way, what I told you before. That's not what I'm saying. Teachers told me today because I studied this story very well and what we should do. We're not just people yelling. Tomorrow morning Greece extends its hayalitis zone to twelve nautical miles, tomorrow morning, to all its aspects! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because it's a different proclamation. Another lie of the New Democracy and, unfortunately, of your Minister. He says the proclamation is being made bilaterally. It's a lie! The delimitation is done in bilateral. The proclamation is a unilateral right. That's why I'm telling you beans. But I'll tell you something. It's not the New Democracy MPs to God. Your Minister makes mistakes. And at some point the Minister who made the mistakes to Evros and all the incoherences he said about extreme right and back to get them and to be corrected. Because my patience has many limits, and I've had enough patience. But I don't do personal attacks, I don't do personal references, I don't do any insults. I want us all to be careful. I give you the arguments. I'm not telling you what I thought. It is also forbidden for Italians to fish in Zakynthos and Kefalonia. It's ours, isn't it? If they fish, they will do Greek companies in Piraeus, Mr. Comrade, and Zakynthos, to pay tax normally on what they fish in Greece. Why would they take the fish mine, my wealth, take him to Italy to sell it? Tell me what right did you do this to me? What right did you do it in New Democracy, you tell me, so I can understand. Joint notification of the right to extend the gynaecitis zone in all Member States. You don't give time to the rest of the states. What did Greece do yesterday? He made a small deal with Italy. Now gives time to other states to react and how did they react? They sent the guns. He went to the Greek chopper "Spetis" to react and left badly. He was threatened by Turkish freshmen and left badly. In an international company, in the company "EIRENI", we put the tail in the legs, not the Greek company. So we'll work, so we'll make friends and friends, Greece strong, as the Prime Minister says? Also, the agreement, I repeat, does not make any sense to the government and does not pass it through the Greek Parliament. Take all the text out to the public to see what you signed. Take all the text out in public, and I'll be the last person to review you because the EOZ for me has been a life battle since 2007, when I got in here. It's a fight and a fight and a life to safeguard our country's right. And you come to me today and you talk to me about ragged deals and you tell me it's a success. It's not a success, I'm telling you. The Prime Minister himself said and I was very pleased, Mr Gerapetti, last year when he spoke of a defence fund. He was talking about a defense fund to put in. Where is he? It's been a year, Mr. Gerapetritis. You know, each of us should go get a shotgun, like a pussy, you guys who put her swab on. A fund for the equipment because we have a problem. Some people here know that we are in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, that we have a problem and I do not want to talk any more. To raise money because critical times are coming in September. Make alliances with Egypt. It'll take now, and I'm happy for it. But be careful again what a deal you're going to make. Egypt doesn't want Kastelorizo to enter. Do you know why? I said it here about a year ago. Because he's making gas out of the Zhor look. Where's Zhor? At a three-international point in Cyprus - Greece - Egypt. He doesn't want to do the Kastelorizo in the Greek EOZ. I'm telling you to understand. He needs attention. We're too late. One year is you, four and a half gentlemen here, another fifty years, the Greek political system is late. Still Metaxas, the great Metaxas for some fools, in 1936 had made ten nautical miles in six nautical miles. It was ten nautical miles in 1936 and made it six nautical miles. The "expatriots" who make tongues and voices. Defense Fund! I close here: Listen, this morning in the "CNN" publication. Do you all know Flynn? Not Floyd, but Flynn, Tub's advisor. He received 530,000 euros or dollars to serve Turkish interests. We don't have a foreign-language Think Tank as a country. You have an ELIAMP, you collect them in the Maximos Mansion all these strange guys - Dokus Mokus, Turks - and we don't even have an agency in English indeed and Turks have groups of think tank and lobbies in the United States their Trump advisers to pay them. I tell you, make a fund like this do something for our country, something to do for Greece. And stop, guys, I'm telling the left with all due respect to swearing Trump. He's President of the United States. And can I tell you something? You're not wrong about the murder of colored Floyd. You're absolutely right, it was murder. But it's not worth getting into the process of calling Trump because I can't hear anyone in here swearing Erdogan. He's been imprisoned by three hundred officers, he's killed thousands of people. Why don't you talk the same way about Erdogan, you tell me. No one says Erdogan Fascist and Nazi, because he's both fascist and Nazi. And authoritarian and brutal behavior has, militarily chauvinistic. Why isn't anyone talking about Erdogan? You're all messed with Trump. All right, everybody for Floyd. Everyone was talking about Floyd, guys, but about late Katsifa, you said he was crazy. Katsifas Crazy, Floyd, who was a bad guy, was a saint. Golden coffin the system. A poor man who was driven into violence, theft, the illegality, why could he not eat in a golden coffin to make our communication? The pseudo-democratics of the United States. And all the Greek channels and the entire political system swears Trump. What if he goes out again in October - November, what happens, colleagues? But you said Katsifa he was a lunatic. Floyd was a good man, saint, Simon Temple. Hey, let's get a little serious in here. It's a very serious political case for us to make a micropolicy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u158	After preparing for the Step, the former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, will now speak for two minutes, each of the ministers, Mr. Pakisotakis and Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u159	Is the list going to be opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u160	It'll open.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u161	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u162	It's open. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And the chiefs of ordinary MPs started. I wanted to say something to Mr Velopoulos about the question he asked how the priority was made. Priority is simple when there is no balance between requests for the same time. Proof that Mr Velopoulos, who actually speaks in most of the bills, asks to speak immediately after the six parties' rapporteurs, and takes the floor because at that time he has not asked for another party leader who happens to have greater parliamentary power. In this respect, today there was the issue of the priority dictated by parliamentary power. So there's no reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u163	Is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u164	Let me finish. It's true, there's no reason to call the police about the show. Now I would like to make something clear, because you said about the empty benches. The vacant seats have been placed in the last three months for health reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u165	Before?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u166	I am talking about the last three months and the next few months - I hope a few - where we will still have empty seats in this House, not out of embarrassment or out of fugitiveism, but to protect ourselves and set a good example. That's all about your complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u168	Of course, Mr Castagnides, and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank the former President of Parliament. I will be extremely brief. I am deeply concerned at the path that the debate on a national issue can take critically. For reasons of national responsibility, I will not go into anything about what they saw in the light of the publicity of the Greek-Italy agreement. I would ask you very much, Mr President, if possible immediately - and if you need to go away from the publicity - to convene the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and to have an in-depth debate on the agreement between Greece and Italy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. Just know that the President of the Commission, Mr Gülekas, has already asked for this. I think he's in consultation with the Services to find the space and the place. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as Mr Velopoles, I would like to begin by saying that, because the dead cannot speak for themselves and have them restored, I consider it my duty to say that Floyd, who was murdered - and who obviously did something that was mentioned as offences or anything else, should not be murdered, should not have done nothing against you. Some had said that he might have given a fake pennant to buy something from a small mango and had this behavior. So it is not right in the Greek Parliament on something, in which there is full knowledge from the police there, to have a snuck about what he did or did not do that man, who could have done something heavier and still not murdered. That is what I wanted to say and I am closing the parenthesis, but I think that should be reflected in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall deal specifically with two issues which I consider to be top of the bill under discussion, and which, in my opinion, concerns one thing of the deep preservatives it holds on the question of conduct in particular and, secondly, the denial of the substance of social mobility, namely a process of undermining the public and equal character of the school, on what Mr Gerapetti also referred to. Before that I can tell you that, in fact, this bill was ready before the pandemic. I should have - I say this quite rightly, obviously different views, so you have tabled this and now - that this is not the case, especially after the pandemic and the arguments that have emerged throughout the world, from the fact that the world has been upset just by the issues that have arisen and which are very specific, that is, the enormous disparities that are growing on the basis of the multiple crises that exist. One of them came to point them out, the health crisis, the epidemic. It is also the crisis, the climate crisis, the major economic crises, the large refugee - migration flows, crises of democracy, etc. Why? Because this situation as it is now being analysed by too many journalists worldwide and also by the political parties from around the world, the new situation that exists in the world today after the pandemic is being offered to reflect on what citizens need in this world, what priorities, of course, and the educational process, which we must give our children, must give the school system or education, so that they have the values in terms of claiming rights, democracy, a different relationship with climate, respect for diversity and a lot of what they refer to as titles in skills capital, etc. This issue arises. It is absolutely the view, on the basis of recent experience, that we are able to raise, as Noam Chomsky said recently, a country's GDP, capable of responding to an endless competition with continuous changes of professions during their lifetime, etc. The debate has now come from the point of view - and it will come next time - on the primary values of a resounding development with different priorities and, above all, with citizens who have a critical spirit and can resist all that has led these multiple crises to increase asymmetrically literally - this is the asymmetrical threat to the world - the inequalities at all levels, social inequalities, economic inequalities, human relationship with nature, democracy in quarantine. The Prime Minister said so as to say something that has been answered. It has not been answered and you know it. It's all about us. It's about you, too. Don't take it personally when we call democracy in quarantine. The spectrum for the supervised societies, after what happened in the world and from what might come, is real, the risk is real. Strategies will be confronted, concepts will be opposed which obviously also take on the question of education and, above all, the question of what citizens we want, what socially active people we want. You saw that the echo came both here and outside the mobilizations that have taken place in the last week of these spontaneous, in many, mass and peaceful rallys and movements that have occurred in all the metropolitan cities of the world, with few exceptions of violence or outrages that have existed, as well as conflicts with a slogan "Eirene only through justice". In order for today's world and people to approach these values and fight for these values, they cannot remain in the deepest conservative standards and in the inequality of a public system that you, in other words, swear. I come to two specific points. Firstly, on the question of conduct, we need to clarify some things. You know very well that there are clubs of parents and guardians, there are teachers, there are teachers, who are next to children, who see the problems presented in their relationships with the bullying - which has been much mentioned here - to other issues that arise in everyday life. And there are extremes sometimes behaviors, etc. I am not referring above all to the legislative framework on young children, which is - one would say - and particularly progressive in our country. I am thinking, in fact, of the school, which solves them, bringing them to a pedagogical dimension, to improve these behaviours or to confuse themselves in the face of others' eyes and, at the same time, to have the pedagogical process to overcome this stage or this problem. Because you know that there are too many others, and drugs and stories too much. We all have kids. We have all been once in one way or another in this context. Where's the colossal difference? That you have been reinstated for years as a behavioral evaluation of moral deception and punishment perception through conduct and recording of conduct, which will obviously accompany these children. That's really unbelievable. No one could - I am not saying now after the pandemic, but before - imagine that you would be fortified by such an alleged assessment of behaviour. Let me tell you that it reflects a conception of profound preservatives and a concept of school which ultimately leads to a minority for several young children, young children, who may not have the limits, the margins to some extent of their age, not always, or in time, have this or the other behaviour. They must not be out of school for citizens who are afraid, who must be compatible with a concept of integration and acceptance of their position and role. You have to admit and you have also reinstated the issue of social mobility. Let me tell you that this conception, this strategy has at its core precisely the question of the role and the position that society itself has given you and that, through the school system, you want to claim the different. This question, this critical spirit, this notion of the different, this racing attitude, which should exist to claim the best, the different, the higher, must be taught in school. It should be based on such perceptions as pedagogicals and incorporation into conception and learning function. You don't do that. Because if something has been missing from yesterday and today's debate on the arguments of the government is pedagogical perceptions. Personally, listening to all the debate, I saw that while they came here as arguments in the Seed, obsessed, strategies, scientific perceptions different, little mention of what it means to be pedagogical, what pedagogical perceptions modern must exist. And I come to the second point. In other words, it is clear that with the strategy for experimental and standard schools, and in particular for the model schools that have within them and the examinations as a prerequisite, this is - and it is your strategy - a public education of two speeds, two categories and it is a refusal of social mobility rather than an upgrade. This is getting worse by both the care centres and the exams in schools and instead of following the steps taken in recent years, reducing and decreasing the care centres and the pointless examinations within the school trunk, reversing the trend and leading to a situation that the social mobility mechanism does not upgrade him, not recognize him, but ignores him and undermines him directly. Mr. Gerapetritis, it is not our role to do this, to alternate here. I was a student of the Experimental School of the University of Athens for twelve years. I invite you and I challenge you in the good sense. Of these two experiments that were in place at the time - because I speak 50 years ago in my dealings, you are all younger - plus the standards that were already in existence and their titles - Joonide, Evangelical School, Varvakeio - have already been mentioned - from those ten, twelve schools, bring us what our teachers have concluded at that time - I will not refer to the way you - the conclusions. Because these schools were precisely to draw conclusions that would go horizontally, directly and automatically throughout the whole education process. That's why they're called experimental. In other words, the experience of teaching, the level of teaching, the way of examination, etc. It was just - so is their founding law - to come and integrate into a national education strategy. From these decades that have passed, bring this experience to the debate that had taken place in previous years with the experts mentioned, that there should be real coincidences - why not a national strategy - on education. Bring this experience to see it. You don't do that. You say that it was two, five, seventeen, the schools in which a process was carried out more advanced, not in the sense that you say of healthy excellence, but of another type of teaching. In other words, thirty people were finished, fifteen went to the theoretical and fifteen to the positive schools, without even having to be two sections. What else can I tell you? [[At this point the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] Bring the experiences from there, make a substantial conversation. You do the exact opposite. What do you think? It's these schools for Mr. Gerapetti or for me or for some others we've reached here, so they've been schools excellent. Instead of seven or nine who were nowadays, they became eighteen. Let's make it fifty now and slowly - we'll see until the thousands are here. This isn't about it. In other words, at the same time, you get juices of pedagogical, human staff, learning knowledge, organization of the knowledge of children who have a greater skill in their young years and who will be able, by their presence in the public school classes - what you call equilibrium wrong - to help the whole class move forward. You remove all these juices from the pedagogical process and encapsulate them - I say it - in fifty schools in this case half -. Halfway through, you're running tests. At least, the experimentals have now escaped the tests. You are entangled there, and the rest of the public education remains at a third and fourth speed in the biennial, waiting for proposals that will be made every September, on the basis of which criteria, to join the model and strong schools club as well. If this is not called class bias, denial of social mobility, separation of public education and undermining of their role, I beg your pardon, what is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. Look, I know my part. Allow me to make a one-minute breakthrough. Since there is a lot of discussion about standards and experimental schools, I will not talk about them. I personally went to the 1st Primary School of Haidari and the sixth High School of Haidari. And I remember Mr. Andrakakos and Mr. Pantis and Mrs. Stetta and Mr. Asproulakis very well, anyway, teachers with a lot of love for what they did. Why am I saying that now? I say this because there are teachers and teachers from Florina to Kastelorizo and the Warrens of Ikaria, which I think our first care and first care - let's say it - must be for them. The second thing I'm saying is some kids will go to these schools. The many children, the vast majority will go to what we normally say in schools - I do not know where Mr Lebanese or anyone else has gone - and we must send them a message that cooperation with teachers and teachers, the effort to learn, to learn, to learn and, if you like, to learn even better must lead them and open up all the opportunities that this society can open up in their lives. That was my intervention, and I think we should care why Mr Gerapetti, who went to Ionideos, if I'm not mistaken, spoke to Mr. Voutsis who went to the Experimental and someone else here who I think went to Varvachio, but there are too many schools that are neither college nor Varvachios nor the others. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u173	Most ministers today are in college.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u174	That's not a bad school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u175	Yes, well that is, of course, the case, as you know, in too many countries in the world. Mr Placiotakis has the floor for two minutes to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Following the horizontal regulation of the Act of Legislative content on 13-4-2020, which relates to contracts of private law of indefinite duration, it was considered necessary to specialise the original provision for the proper functioning of the Public Commercial Navy Schools. With this provision, therefore, we define precisely the period of the provision of the educational project, we safeguard the uninterrupted payment of PDOs for the whole period until the end of the training period, and we safely regulate the maintenance of the provision of training work by the end of the year. In this way, therefore, we ensure the continuous and uninterrupted functioning of the Public Schools of Merchant Navy and by extension of maritime education, since the number of temporary staff represents 77% of all the needs of the training staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Tourism has the floor, Mr Theocharis, to present his own amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. A spokesman of the Anabryan will speak. Indeed, the debate was of interest in terms of experimental and standards. I can't watch her. I have listened very carefully to the former President, Mr Voutsi, for the reasons why class mobility is not favoured through the model schools. Backwards is happening. It is known that education, when it does not have a tuition, when it helps everyone to develop their skills, is what brings all people, regardless of where they start, to be able to achieve what they can in life. I am now going to say a few words about this amendment. You know that we are going ahead with our country's plan to open up to tourism, our country's chance to welcome tourists. One key point of this plan, a key pillar is our ability to have isolation hotels so that we can safeguard the good reputation of hotels and destinations, without giving anyone who is positive for any reason at all in the virus at our hotels, who will operate and thus put them in isolation with the possibility of spending some days in our country but in a way that is safe for anyone who is safe. This amendment enables us to implement this process. Our Ministry is already in an invitation today to have an interest in consultation and, of course, to vote for this amendment, we will be given the opportunity to implement the standard technical procedures needed to make the choice of these hotels. The choice will be such that we meet the needs of the country at all destinations. We have already contacted doctors, with EKO, with the Ministry of Health so that we can meet the needs we have and, of course, this implementation will take place in the next few days and will cover our country at least by the end of October 2020 and, if necessary, extend the tourist season, we will gladly come to extend this programme. I therefore call for this amendment to be voted on because it will enable us to welcome safely, as we have said since the first day, tourists in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u179	The Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameos, has asked for the floor, I imagine either an amendment or a legislative one. Please, Minister, say if you accept both amendments, just to put them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. My intervention concerns the Ministerial Amendment Nos 354 and 27, which provides for the extension of the term of office of the Secretary-General of the Athens Academy, in order precisely because of the coronary nature of allowing greater participation, since many members of the Athens Academy belong to vulnerable groups. It is the relevant amendment, which has already been tabled. I am also tabling a purely formal legislative approach in order to include the various amendments to the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u181	I would ask that it be photocopied and distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u182	This afternoon, Mr President, I will be tabling the many amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u183	Are you accepting these two ministerial amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u184	Of course, ministerial amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u185	Aren't the members of the Athens Academy immortal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u186	As members of the Academy, they are immortal. As Presidents, as Secretaries, etc. have been finished... The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xinoyannakopoulou, has requested the floor. Here you go, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, we object! Aren't any Members going to speak? The list isn't started yet! If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u188	First of all, I haven't given you the floor. I'll give it to you. I know what you're saying. But when the parliamentary representative of a party is asking for the floor, he speaks exceptionally. I know that Mr Charakopoulos, who is the first to speak and will certainly speak after Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, if Mr Lebanon does not ask for the floor, by entering the list of speakers. I understand you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u189	Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u190	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, this situation is unacceptable, because in the end the Members do not count at all in this Chamber during the legislative procedure. The debate on today's draft law has started since 11:45, we have arrived at 16:00 in the afternoon and not a single MP has spoken. So you realise that you abuse the Rules of Procedure against Members. You should change this practice if you really want justice in this Chamber in the exchange of views and speeches, so that the parliamentary representatives and everyone can respond. Members must also be heard. You must respect it as the Bureau and keep it as the daughter of an eye. It can't be done every time. The Heads have also spoken about a roll-call vote tomorrow, let's see when Members will talk, whatever time it is, without asking whether we Members have our own obligations. So I ask you to give the same time so that every time they speak three, four speakers from the list, a parliamentary representative and anyone else who wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u192	Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u193	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, excuse me for intervening, but I will be very brief. Mr President, despite the fact that I was going to ask for the floor after Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, because I fully accept the complaint and the sensitivity of my fellow Members, I would like to say - and I would like to ask the other Members of Parliament for this - that I will hear some Members first and then ask for the floor, so that the list of speakers can be properly opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not far from Mr Confederal, but there is also the Rules of Procedure. I say: Mr Kastanides has given a solution, but we should all agree to raise this issue in our parliamentary groups, not to change the Rules of Procedure, but to respect the heads of the parties, the Presidents of Parliament. They spoke, in other words, three chairmen of Parliamentary groups, one after the other. Mr. Conglomerate, I understand you and I agree with you. But at the moment there is nothing else I can do. We simply need to be strict about the time of the parliamentary representatives. Here, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, my dear colleague, who is from the majority, I would like to say that what you have said is absolutely respectable. But, you know, the Rules of Procedure exist for various reasons of parliamentary function and ethics. When either the Prime Minister, who makes direct references and criticisms to the Chief of Police Representation, or the ministers in the various bills, are used - and this is also democratic - to allow parliamentary representatives - far more distant from the party leader for whom there were references - to take the floor. And I think this is a well-established necessity and procedure for our Rules of Procedure. As far as the position of Prime Minister Mitsotakis is concerned, I would like to make some points and then talk about the draft law that we have been discussing since yesterday and with many positions. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to agree - it is something that SYRIZA said yesterday - that the agreement between the EU and Italy is in a positive direction. Of course, I would agree with Mr Kastanidis - it is something that we requested from yesterday - that we should be aware of the precise text so that we can study and evaluate it. For this reason, I will agree, Mr Kastanidis - and as I understand Mr Tasoula himself, Mr Gülekas himself has moved in this direction - with the need for a special meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy to be held in order to provide the relevant information. It is clear that the New Democracy Government has taken the thread from the long and long-term attempts that had taken place, especially from the SYRIZA Government, which had worked very diplomatically in the direction of having an agreement with Italy, but also towards a similar agreement with Albania and Egypt. We therefore hope and urge the government to mobilise and act diplomatically in that direction. Also, as far as this agreement with Italy is concerned - something we regard as self-evident - the next step obviously needs to be the need to extend the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea. He said the Prime Minister - and indeed he criticised the Chief of Officership, Mr. Tsipras, like us as SYRIZA, as a party, we are criticising - that we do not make proposals and that we do not contribute to the national dialogue or to a national consensus. So I would like to point out three specific things here, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, for months now - I can tell you from this step already in January - Mr Tsipras, like the Members of SYRIZA, has asked for information on foreign policy. In fact, again, Mr Tsipras has asked that there should also be a Council of Political Heads, which has not been done so far. This request is based on the logic of having a new geopolitical situation, new data, we have Turkey's growing and escalating aggression, but also the new data resulting from the Turkish pact. So there is a clear need for a national line, but there is also a need for information and dialogue, which is within the scope of the Prime Minister's initiative. The second point I would like to raise, ladies and gentlemen, is the matter of pandemic. So in the matter of pandemic, both the Chief of Officerial Response, and SYRIZA collectively, we have been fully socially responsible and supported all health measures. We took a position from this Step and Mr. Tsipras then supported in the difficult days for the pandemic and urged all these measures to be complied with. Of course, we have had a different approach to both the functioning of the National Health System and to address the economic and social consequences of this unprecedented crisis. However, we supported it. So in this case it is not meant to raise a matter here, Mr Mitsotakis, that we have not put backs on it or that we have never made a consensual effort where it really is useful and that we are only to criticize. The third point I would like to raise is the different view we have on some other issues. For we of course do not agree on either a rational dismantling of labour relations on the occasion and on the basis of the pandemic crisis, nor on the basis of a logic of application to the economy and to the small and medium-sized enterprises of whom it is able to withstand, it will live and survive - that is to say, an application of the immunity of the herd and the economy, since these are the conditions of the period. Even there, however, we have made proposals. In the first few weeks of the pandemic we submitted proposals to stay upright and up-to-date proposals - they were here and Mr Theocharis - so that this critical summer quadrant can really stand our country, the Greek economy and the Greek society and be able to restart, as appropriate and not stay in the deep recession, which proved, on the basis of the official evidence, that we had already been hit by the door before a pandemic. Finally, Mr Mitsotakis mentioned the fact that here too - and so I come to the issue of the bill - we are not trying to dialogue. Obviously the Prime Minister is either not well informed or has another view of the debate, because there was not really a dialogue on this bill. Perhaps this did not allow the pandemic, because the Minister said that the bill was ready beforehand. However, objective dialogue has not taken place. And that's not just us. It is all the parties who have criticised both this and the substance of the bill, but also the majority of the social actors, and those who came to Parliament. Mr Mitsotakis also said that not only was there a dialogue, but that the Minister accepted during committee meetings and many of the proposals for opposition. Madam Minister, we would be very interested in you to tell us - because we might not have a full understanding of your positions - which of our proposals you accepted, because we did not see any of our positions adopted. The only difference we have seen, because of the outcry there has been, was the withdrawal of the PCA provision. And welcome to her, if that's what Mr. Mitsotakis means. Of course we expect to see what you're going to do when you bring the bill you told us. Yesterday we made a very detailed reference to a series of issues. I would like to say - because our rapporteur, Mr Philis, has analysed them, but then many honourable Members will speak - that from Mr Mitsotakis' speech I understand that he himself is not convinced of the subject of conduct, because he has opened a window when he said that there will be ministerial decisions and that it will not be exactly 'world', 'cosmetic'. We have also seen too many worthy colleagues in the New Democracy, Minister, officially from this Step - so it is not just SYRIZA or Opposition - to be completely opposed, considering the backwards and as a stigma and that it is not meant to be regressive at this time in public school. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, with one phrase. Because today we have shared all our educational experiences and because when we have to invest in education, we have to invest in the public education system, I would like to say that if we want to support the Greek university, not least - because we have said why we disagree with the provisions that you have brought - it must be stopped. I'm proud to have finished the law of Athens. Then there were no postgraduate degrees at the Greek University and that's why I did my postgraduate in Sorbonne. I must tell you that my fellow students here and in Sorbonne and later working in Community institutions in Brussels have never felt disadvantaged, having finished the Greek university. Stop deportation. We must support it both with words and with our actions and not with provisions such as those of colleges or now with the foreign languages which from the back door come to bypass Article 16 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy now has the floor and Mrs Fotou follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me and myself begin by mentioning the school I learned, the KOTSARI College, as we euphemistically called the Iteas-Cartatsis High School, and I remember, in fact, that the second class we took it, Mr President, into a brick building, which in its previous use was a barn. I say this in order to highlight the value of public education as a vehicle for social mobility, as was said by the Prime Minister earlier in Stepa, because it is public education that enables the farmer's child, the worker's child, to have opportunities for a better life. Ladies and gentlemen, since the relocation to date there have been several reforms in the field of education. Of course, there were ministers who wanted to be recorded as reformers, experimenting "the cow's head". Of course, Minister, I think that any changes to the education system have a strong ideological imprint, because there is a change in education aimed at creating active citizens, so that any changes to the education system reflect the vision of every part of society. We believe in an educational system that highlights the value of fair play, which promotes effort, effort, work and effort, which highlights excellence. On the contrary, SYRIZA in the name of equality imposes a levelling down. Since not everyone can be perfect, there is no room for excellence and it imposes moderate rule. Thus, the left promotes instead of noble talk the logic of minor effort. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I was sadly surprised by the stubbornness of SYRIZA's opposition to school standards in the government's attempt to restore school standards to our educational system. What we have not heard, that it is a fascist remnant of the standards of schools, I think, from the former Minister, Mrs Anagnostopoulou. Well, you'll tell me here in the last few weeks we've heard that the country's first governor John Kapodistrias was a dictator. We have reached the exodus of Mr Phile, the SYRIZA rapporteur, to the standard schools. Mr. Friend's school models were exaggerated as carcinomas in the body of public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u198	Read it all, not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u199	Didn't you say it was carcinomas?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u200	Read what I said. Read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u201	If you're gonna fix it, Mr. Philly, I'm very happy. I don't have all the minutes in front of me to read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u202	Well, then? Not propaganda in here, we want arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u203	You didn't say it was a cancer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Harakopoulos, please. Mr. Philly, you may ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Philly, I'm glad you want to repair and correct. I'm happy to accept it. Because, really, I was surprised, as I told you, by your excommitment. I wish it were. One would, however, expect the left in favour of the weak to support the standard schools. Because, school standards, what are they actually? Schools in which children of poor families have special gifts, especially talents, special appeals to knowledge, particular gradients, can study without tuition and have opportunities better in their lives. So, what are standard schools? A mechanism to alleviate social inequalities. I think the example of the Minister, Mr Gerapetti, was a catalyst in the Chamber. Mrs Larissa, may I ask you, because a list of school models does not include a whole region of the country, and the county of Larissa, a prefecture of 300 000 inhabitants with all the conditions to host a model school, I would like to believe that all these conditions will be in place from the next school year, in order to create a standard school in Larissa as well. The same incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, is the attitude of Officer Responsibility. With regard to your refusal to familiarize the children of kindergarten with English. What we did not hear of dark interests to the finger of imperialism behind this change. Positive, no doubt, Mr President, are the arrangements for increasing the courses in question, the basis of '10' for promoting a classroom, the reintroduction of the topic bank. Ladies and gentlemen, it took four decades since SYRIZA's transformation and five years of governance, so that the left can accept that it was genocide, all that we have heard so many years about free, uninterrupted admission to universities, without any examination, without any choice. We had marathon meetings in the previous parliamentary term of SYRIZA's governance, chaired by Mr. Gavroglou of the Morphic Affairs Committee. We have been confronted several times with Mr. Friends when he was Minister and I was the discipline chief of the New Democracy. We have had multi-page reports, multi-page findings from various committees, in addition to this Morphic Case, Mr. Friends referred to the committee under Mr Liaco and all that, why? To justify the cubulation of SYRIZA and to return four decades after a system of ties, essentially, which we all accept or almost all of them in this Chamber. Because there has been a lot of noise, Minister, about the restoration of Latin, as a pan-Hellenic lesson and the abolition of sociology and, indeed, an ideological colour to this differentiation which has existed, I would like you to see the proposal put forward by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Educational Sciences again again again. As in the second field, students who choose polytechnic schools can be examined in the fourth lesson in mathematics and those who choose medical schools, be examined in biology, and those who follow the philosophical schools archaeology could also be considered in Latin and those who follow the social sciences to examine in sociology. Universities ask themselves, as the Panhellenic Association of Educational Sciences writes in its letter. Since we all swear on the self-interest of universities, let us accept it. Although for Latin, I would tell you that I found the article of Professor Mavrogodatos very interesting, which says that, perhaps, we should see the teaching of the sayings of our language, because it is really inconceivable in our days that children who end the middle education are unable to read from the original Papadiamant and Roides and need to translate. There are positive arrangements for Greek-language education, and I would like to believe that after a ten-year use that Greek schools have been declining abroad, there will be a potential come back to Greek-language education abroad and, more generally, to Greek-language education with the support of Greek-based seats in universities abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to end by saying this, Mr President, that I should like to congratulate the regulation on the establishment of foreignlanguage undergraduate programmes at universities. Do you know that the great opportunity of the Revision of the Constitution, of Article 16, which would also give the country the opportunity to abolish the state monopoly in higher education, to have private universities so that our country could become a student attraction from around the world? I think now by this arrangement, Minister, you are opening a window of opportunity, so that students not only from the Balkans and Southeast Europe, but from all over the world, can come and study with tuition fees at public universities in the country that gave birth to most sciences, from mathematics to medicine and from philosophy to rhetoric. I think it's really the most central part of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning, public education is the vehicle of social mobility. And in that direction, we should all work. I think that this bill is moving in this direction, and that is why I am voting in favour of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u207	I would also like to speak for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u208	I will give you the floor for a minute, ladies and gentlemen, but we have not started well. Please avoid personal reports. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I am trying to respond with arguments and take advantage of the opinions of others, not by dictionaries and propaganda. Repeatedly speaking in the House and in the committees, and here in plenary, I have substantiated our opposition to the network of standards that now go to be created, not to the historical standards that we have maintained as government and which I happen to have finished one of them, but to the network of multipliers in this respect throughout Greece. It makes a difference. Another eight, another thirty - we will have twenty-five in September - another fifty or a hundred later, as the Minister says. What's the difference? The difference is that here we are in front of the creation of a hairy school network, standards, experimental that is another thing and the large number of neighborhood schools. According to the law we have before us - and I conclude - I read: "We are dealing with a network of schools for children of a minority educational and social elite that will operate in the school network, not today's historical standards, the fifty, a hundred, hundred, that say standards in Greece. It will work with separate specifications and privileged arrangements in relation to the other schools as a carcinoma in the in the in the hearts of public education, which will desperate and feed on the bleeding of the other schools, the schools of the many and the weak." It's called the bill. The best students of all schools will go to standards. The best teachers of all schools will go to standards. What's going to be left in the other schools? Full degradation of schools. That's the concept. Is it bothering? Is it possible to create a number of misunderstandings about the word 'carcinoma'? No objections, that's not the point. The point is, you're sucking off children by appealing to learning and good teachers from the other schools for a few schools. We have three and a half thousand gymnastics and elementary schools in Greece and you will make fifty, a maximum of one hundred standards. All the proposed innovations for model schools, such as groups, cooperation with universities, etc., are correct. They should be extended to all schools in public education. That's what we think. I stress, no slogans. If the meaning I mentioned is misunderstanding, there is no objection. The point is, let's look at the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u210	Good, I think you have given the explanation on your text. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u211	Just one word. I would like to ask my dear colleagues from the majority to consult the Minutes when they want to talk about what we have said. Mr. Harakopoulos, what you said, I didn't say it. For the standards, I'll come back. Now, as for the Capodist, I'm a serious historian. I'm not going to answer anything. For conspiracy, consult the minutes, Mr. Harakopoulos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much. I would also advise everyone to read - since we started it today - the book by Dimitris Glenos "According to Ungratefulness".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u214	What are you going to answer? You can answer, I'll give you the floor, but you haven't been touched.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, my intention, because I have been here for years, is not to twist anyone's words. From what I understand, Mr. Friend, does he think that the eight existing school models are working well today, but does he think that it will be a carcinoma if they become fifty? Because our intention is to make a model of this kind at the headquarters of each county. The aim is not to be limited, to give more opportunities to children throughout the country who have these gifts. I do not really understand what Mrs Anagnostopoulou disproved. Was it said or said to have something to do with fascist remnants of the school models?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u216	Look at the Minutes and you'll see, Mr. Haracopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u217	Mrs. Anagnostopoulos said you need to look into the Minutes to see, just so we don't have time. You'll look for them and see. We shall now proceed with Mrs Fotou from SYRIZA and then Mr Kontogiorgos from New Democracy. Mrs Fotou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u218	I want to ask something first. Do the Undersecretaries represent the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u219	Yes, the Undersecretaries represent the government. You say that now that Mrs Kerameo is not here, but she is Mrs Zacharaki. He's a State Secretary, he's a member of the Governing Council. Don't create a new subject now, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u220	It's clear. You were Deputy Minister, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u221	Please. Do not make this sort of interactive debate. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u222	I insist on why it matters. It is an important bill, and it must be the government here, as the House says. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, in our interim pandemic period, all international organizations, the OECD, the IMF and so on, point to the serious economic, health and social consequences of the countries with a weak social state, namely health, education, welfare. These countries that belong to the European south, namely Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece, will experience the asymmetrical expansion of the inequalities caused by endogenous, fiscal, or external - such as COVID - pandemics or climate change crises. These are repeated global crises, which are now becoming our new reality and which affect not only the region of society, namely the well-known, poor and vulnerable, but the centre of society, that is, the middle and the upper layers. In the popular world of emotion and gratitude for the heroic health and welfare workers, also added the crocodile tears of the rulers, who over the past three decades have deforestationed, deregulationd, reaped every concept of a public social state to deliver it to the market, to the private market. The social depression of education and health has turned some of the middle and upper classes towards private clinics, private schools, colleges, not for their best services, but for social added value, the social status they ensured. Of course, when the patient was in danger, he was transferred from the expensive private clinic room, running with the EKAB, to the public hospital to be saved. The social depreciation of public education in our country aimed at what all SYRIZA speakers have said many times in creating the market school that is cheap for the state, expensive for the citizens, profitable for the teachers. This is done in two ways. Firstly, by reducing state funding for universities and for the public school. Secondly, with continuous deregulation of public school and university, called modernisation, to create space for the private education market to flourish. This requires, first, that you take teaching contents of public school and give them to the private area. In other words, the Arvanitopoulos Act, the Samara Government, Minister Mitsotakis who abolished content from the public IEK, seeking the labour market, to hand it over to the private IEK. Secondly, it requires an equalisation of professional rights for private colleges with those of universities. Horn Law, Government Mitsotakis. It's the intelligent bypass of Article 16 of the Constitution. But most importantly, you need to provide customers with private education. "Customers" said Mr.Mitsotakis to students and not by mistake. How do you secure customers? You reduce the admissions to universities as follows: First, you suspend the operation of new departments established by SYRIZA. Secondly, you abolish free access to the low demand segments. Thirdly, you reset the base of "10" in the pan-Hellenic exams, when the whole world knows that the themes one year, in the same courses, may be very difficult and not take "10" or few over "10" and the next year be gorgeous and everyone takes over "10". That's what Mrs. Keramea does. Simple. As long as the Greek university is free and reliable, however, this market for private educational products will always be weak. So, you have to privatize the public university, or pay for some of its services. And that's what you're doing. You are opening this enlarged, anymore, Ferry, the great gateway with the foreign language departments. Of course, you say it's not for the Greeks now. Don't worry. That'll be here soon. We know that very well. Therefore, Greeks based on their parents' wallet and language will bypass higher education at the public university. So, finally, they get useful - to be in the pleasant climate - English at kindergarten. With this bill, Mrs Kerameos has made a decisive contribution to the establishment of learning in learning, always on the pretext of modernization, excellence, multi-faceted information. It dissolves curriculum, how to teach and examine, torpedoes the essential relationship between a teacher and a teacher when increasing the number of children in each class. It increases courses and fragments knowledge. That's the training of immortality. As French philosopher Jean-Claude Michela says, young people learn a thousand two and on the other hand are unable to combine any knowledge they have obtained because they are offered during an extremely long term service, apprenticeship. Imagine that in Greece it is twenty years with the two compulsory kindergartens. They collect information by surfing in the ocean details and fragmented knowledge. This is the one dimension of immortality, the structural, the one that eventually enrolled in the mental world of the student and the student. The other dimension, which is equally dramatic and active, is that the knowledge and learning provided, even from the higher levels of the educational mechanism, is depreciated at most within a decade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It takes five years in the former Commissioner of the European Union, Mrs Reding. As a result, the person lives in a state of continuing educational depreciation, within a permanent stress, seeking salvation for his professional survival in distance learning, training, continuing training and lifelong learning. At the stage of generalised unemployment and the veritable depreciation of the labour force, the ear and isolated person is also in use to ensure a place in the sun. Everything else is superfluous. This is the training of immortality, Mr Mitsotakis, which you are currently supporting. That's why you'll be accountable to young people and the country's educational history. But these dark educational parentheses are followed by periods of light, creative, hopeful. That's the educational story. That is why we are working together with all the educational, political, social and progressive space. This bill is doomed, like Diamantopoulou, to fail and not be implemented, to be forgotten. We are voting against it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Fotou. Mr. Kontogeoros from New Democracy will be given the floor and Mr. Biagis will be followed by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u224	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u225	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, in relation to Mrs Fotio's position I have a few comments. Firstly, we have said so in a thousand ways, in the bill, that foreign-language programmes are aimed only at foreigners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u227	Excuse me. I said the two Undersecretaries are here and we can go on. You will take the floor and in your speech you will answer to Mrs Fotou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u228	I would just like a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u229	Let me give it to you for a second. I want to make it easier for everyone. But if we start in every speech a State Secretary speaks, we are burned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u230	I don't think it's happening in every speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u231	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u232	So I repeat that foreign language programmes are aimed only at foreigners. A number of things have been heard here about allegedly unconstitutionalism, allegedly violating European law. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament has been completely disproved. You mentioned, Mrs. Fotio, that we are reducing the invaders to create customers in foreign languages. But the invaders were announced a few days ago and they are exactly the same as the invaders of the previous year. Finally, you cannot say that the abolition of divisions when all technological education has disappeared for your days, all sections have been passed without evaluations, without the consent of universities many times and many times with last-minute parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Digalakis. Here, Mr. Contogeorgio, you have the floor. Then, as I said, Mr. Biagis will speak. There will be some changes in the next four to make it easier for all of us, and that is to say the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, I am not going to answer Mr Digalakis, so that I do not have the time of my colleague. Mr. Dillakis didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, if one goes out of memory of the past and stops in 2015, when SYRIZA came to power and managed to overthrow all the bad texts in this society, as in the field of education, we should today talk about an educational system in this country that should run by a thousand, compete with the modern educational systems of all the countries of the world and the Greeks really be happy, because they would have a system of education that would ensure everything around them. They would take over all the posts and dominate international organizations everywhere and, anyway, there would be no need to change things. Also, she would not feel the need for Mrs Fotio, who came down on the Step, to tell us that we, who do not believe in SYRIZA, but in other political areas and that we are going to take out the public school, derail it, destroy it, which SYRIZA founded. Mrs. Fotiou, before you came to power, some people came, had a state built, to which you also learned letters. And if you want to be among those who are unlucky is your right. We others, however, have the right to maintain the privilege of saying that we were very good students and have learned at least what we had to learn, so that we can practice both occupation and social activity as well as societal ones. I'm telling you that I finished the only municipal school of Shellon Evrytania with a hundred and thirty students, the first public high school of Carpenesi, because there was no second and the first high school of Carpenesiu and then IAE, with no one hour of instruction in any lesson and o' the wonder that the government at the time of the New Democracy had ensured to me, a child of a rural family who had the largest income was the last in the country, I learned letters. With your criticism, I shouldn't have learned anything since it was classic the education that the Right gave over the years. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be serious in this Chamber. And if we want to speak in terms of the future of education, we should all put our hand in the heart and say what our mistakes are, all our mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last two weeks the draft law in the Greek Parliament has been debated with the title: 'School upgrade and other provisions', last week at the responsible Committee on Formats Affairs and the current in plenary. There is no doubt that it is the most important since it runs the whole education system from kindergarten to university and affects the lives of both the whole of our country's youth and the hundreds of thousands of their families. It would be a surplus to repeat the provisions of one by one of the bills, having been analysed sufficiently and fully, both by the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and by our rapporteur and all the previous ones and by the President of the New Democracy. However, you will allow me once again to point out that the philosophy of this bill and its orientation are the future. It aims at a modern school free and creative to meet the conditions of the future, which our youth will be invited to face in its later life. In a school that in its first two grades will be inspired by its innovation and its adaptation to the requirements of the times and will enable every young person to develop their skills and choose the profession he likes. It pilots skills workshops from kindergarten to high school, in four thematic circles: living, environment, social empathy and responsibility and creative thinking and initiative. At the same time, it develops sub-thematic sections in volunteering, ecological consciousness, road safety, until prevention of dependency, mutual respect for diversity, entrepreneurship, robotics, new technologies and sexual education. It pilotizes the attraction of English to kindergarten, redistributes teaching hours per teaching object, strengthening the teaching of foreign languages, computer, physical education and classic letters. It strengthens and broadens standards and experimental schools to become a talented educational workshop, institutionalises the dual assessment of internal and external, necessary at all levels of school life. It re-establishes the bank of classified issues in high school. It introduces incentives and arrangements to fill in educational gaps, such as the dual mobilisation of the educational service in difficult and mountainous areas. It introduces a multitude of administrative and educational measures to deal with school bullying phenomena, while the relevant educational policy institute forms new modern curricula and compiles new books for all levels of school. The third degree strengthens the extroversion of Greek universities through the establishment of foreignlanguage undergraduate programmes, without the intervention of the Ministry. Joint curricula between Greek and foreign universities is established. It facilitates the emergence of rectoral authorities and institutionalises the single ballot for the election of propellers and anti-rectifiers, establishing an electronic vote and a four-year management term. It streamlines and objectively conceives the system of transcripts, adding beyond the economic and social criteria, the academic criterion of introduction minus two thousand and fifty molecules. Ladies and gentlemen, it is common belief in all the wings of this House and in society as a whole that the issues of education must be approached by everyone with due care and aim at the best possible consensus of the political forces. It is understandable, too, that many political forces for reasons of existentiality and only disagree in everything and greed incomprehensibly with the outrages of a populist society. But all these days, unbelievable things have been heard in this Chamber, especially by major opposition. SYRIZA is inclined to surprise both the parliament and the educational community. Is the communication of a governmental programme for the education of the New Democracy a two-year period, approved by the citizens by a large majority on 7 July 2019? Is the continuous dialogue of the Ministry of Education's political leadership with the entire educational community, the public consultation that preceded the ideal conditions for society as a whole? The Civic Opposition is intensified as a protector of trade unions for the fact that they had not had sufficient time to develop their positions in the committee responsible, betting on an endless and unfounded dialogue after they had rejected the draft law of the Government in advance. The New Democracy and the Government respect the independence and functioning of trade unions, develop the necessary dialogue, but know in every direction that the legislative power is exercised by the Greek Parliament and only in accordance with the Constitution. SYRIZA is intensified for the changes at all levels of education proposed by the Ministry of Education's political leadership to liberate and refresh the public school creatively and obviously forgets the levelling and burial of any democratic creative initiative that it brought as a government with its anachronistic ideological claws. SYRIZA also denounces the government and with ridiculous references, such as the one on the introduction of English to kindergarten, that it serves American interests. One could laugh at this argument, but unfortunately it is to cry for the infamous party that has ruled the country for five years. I am making this comment on the most blatant case of the misconduct of former SYRIZA's top trade union agent. Do you remember the former President of OLEME 2013-2015, the notorious Mr. Kotsifakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Conkogeor, you've had a lot of time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u237	I'm closing, Mr. President. OLEME fainted him in March 2015, when there was no longer any problem in education, while in previous years she announced the gaps since June, the strikes and occupations since June last year, who certainly redeemed this cooperation with the political leadership of SYRIZA, after being appointed director of the office of the then State Secretary of Education Baxebanakis. Now put on the rebel cloak again and bail against the bill and the government. Ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult period for the world as a whole, we must all put aside the micro-political behaviour and turn our eyes to the future, to create with caution the necessary conditions and consensus. I therefore call on you to vote on this draft law and see together its implementation and any improvements that will be required. Finally, I congratulate the Ministry's political leadership, the Minister and the State Secretarys, Mrs Zacharakis and Mr Digalakis on their excellent work and I declare that I am voting for the bill as a whole and on an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Philly, they're forty speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Philie, excuse me, but there are forty speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u242	Yes, but it is a matter of substance and ethos to launch personal attacks on citizens who are not here in the Chamber without any evidence, for what I have heard personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u243	He's the president of OLEME.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u244	And? Six years ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u245	Let's keep the level.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u246	I'm really sorry about Mr. Conkogeor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u247	Yeah, that's right, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, he was President of OLEME.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u249	Listen, please. As you know, the level has to do with everyone that's expressed. That's another thing. Now Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement, and then Mr. Tsakalotos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u250	The show's changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u251	He's a little changed to the next one. There is a series of measures to help speakers, but also the Bureau. After Mr Tsakalotos he will be Mr Lambroulis to take over the Bureau. And I'm from 14:00 here, and I'm gonna sit up to 17:00 and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u252	Why did the show change? Stamenite writes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u253	I know you were in line, Mr. Stamenite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u254	How did you change it like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u255	The series is Biagi, Tsakalotos, Lambroulis, Stamenitis, Vernardakis, Skondra.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u257	Just a minute and two minutes, but right now I'm presiding. If anyone considers that he should chair during the next parliamentary term, he should run with his party and preside over. Now, if it is going to be a fuss for ten minutes or half an hour, I do not think it is appropriate. You have the floor on a point of order, I imagine, Mr Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u258	Obviously you are doing your job very well, but there is an ethical and procedural issue here. Who decided this procedure? When was it announced? There has been a responsibility from the Bureau as a whole since this morning, not to say that you say 9.00 and we start at 12.00, not to mention the question that there are certain time limits here or that they are confused and that they are three and four times twice as high. But there is also a change in the ranking of speakers for which this House is not aware, and the people who are in order to speak and are here since the morning. So I ask which initiative and why this change has been made from the list we have here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u259	And I am replying to you in consultation with the Members and with the fact that Mr Lambroulis in particular should speak at the time he chairs or otherwise go after too many hours of doing these things, that is to say, a consultation with Mr Tsakalotos and a consultation with Mr Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u260	It's just, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u261	Listen to me so you can learn a few things. The procedure and number of speakers are not defined by the services. It's not a presiding office. It is also based on certain agreements, and on some needs, and on the facilitation. I won't say a name, but someone tells me that instead of talking now he'll talk in sixteen minutes, and that's a serious problem, huh, I think that's not. A little mutual understanding between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u262	It is simply a good thing, Mr President, that you should let us know too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u263	I understand just yours. You are actually being informed through the procedure. I said there's going to be some changes with Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, if they so much as think they are affected, I will speak after 20 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Lambroulis, I'm the one who determines this. I understand you too, but I define it. Mr. Biagis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I started studying the Ministry of Education's bill, I waited after the generalized lockdown, after all that we lived as a country with the sudden forced invasion of technology into our daily lives that I would read a bill that would introduce new technologies, information technology and promote provisions that would greatly simplify the lives of the entire educational community. Indeed, by a new Minister, I would expect to see a bill completely different from the current one that our children would prepare for the fourth industrial revolution and to adapt them to new data with a new school that would accelerating them to all that comes and spreads rapidly after COVID -19 and would actually help them to shape new perceptions, new skills, new skills. Unfortunately, I have to admit that this bill does not show up. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary-General, tomorrow we will all be called upon to give answers to the many countless and inexplicable 'why' of today's students. Like, for example, why this country does not provide them with all the necessary equipment it should give them to enable them to work and society. And how will these people be able to come out of society with devotion, with love, enthusiasm, we say, with a commitment to the goals, with mood and with care. For all this, then, the modern school should have arranged and stopped this ruthless hunting of diplomas and certifications based on sterile knowledge and simple delivery of courses and work. Today our children need new structures based on new technologies in experiential commercial knowledge, in reaction. I would therefore expect you, Minister, in the ten months of your term to have opened up a dialogue with all the parties that we would have tried together on the fundamental principles to build the greatest possible consensus, an extroverted educational system aimed at a humanitarian education rather than a purely technological one we have today. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the dismissal of the dismissal does not solve the school bowling, there is no mutual respect among all those involved in the family of learning, knowledge and schoolchildren. All of this should be included in a wider educational curriculum. I'm on my way to excellence. Bring her back, and good for you. We, too, believe that the perfect one must be recognized both by himself and by his years of efforts. I feel, however, that the way you restore it is made by elite traits. For experimental and standards twenty-eight standards and thirty-two experiments in a total of about thirteen thousand school units across the territory. So, since we recognise standards experimentally as an innovative project, should you, gentlemen of the government, at least have provided for them to enjoy a greater number of pupils in the rest of Greece and not just in the big cities of our country? We are talking about areas and you have not promoted self-evident things, such as, for example, the reintroduction of the entire public school, a section has actually been accepted by society and by the entire teaching group. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary-General, I would also like to focus on a very important issue. I come from Corfu an island that is the philharmonic for us Corfus, music is education, it is the cultivation of the soul, it is the main point of reference of the social associations of young people. First I will dwell on the request concerning the Alumni Association of the Department of Music Studies of the Ionian University. Does the Minister know very well that the problem exists because of the state's delay in the accreditation process that these people are therefore unable to participate in the AACC? In fact, Mrs Keramemos was herself in the previous House, she proposed that the appointment of these people in the APRC should be considered. There's a state delay. Where available, provision may be made for a deferred payment of supporting documents. It is time, Mr Secretary-General, that we tabled the amendment as a Change Movement - if you would like your words to be consistent with the projects, to be accepted. I would also like to stress that until 2003 music was taught in schools three hours per week. This has been abolished and a teaching time has been set, but ignoring the positive effect that this may have on students in their cognitive, psychomotor, emotional and social levels. A lesson that was essential in ancient Greece along with gymnastics has been degraded. In infinitely few schools there is a music hall. In many schools musicians are forced to carry their organs together. There are no logistical infrastructures and no possibilities and modern means. I feel that what is lacking in schools is more general education and more general culture and the education of the soul where young people, knowing their skills, can unfold the creative aspects of their character. Music enables students to develop their converging and divergent thinking. It is unauthorized nowadays for music not to be taught in schools and in the pan-Hellenic exams to be a special lesson and in such a way as to strengthen transgression. The benefits of music only could be beneficial to our children, as in a time of crisis and stress it would help in this effort. Mr. Undersecretaries, with stones, with stones and logical "knots and rubble" you do not reform. The reform first requires consultation, as we said at the beginning of my position, with all the stakeholders involved, with the social partners in order to understand the problem from the basis. Then it takes courage to be able to collide to bring the new one and wants you to have vision, boldness and stubbornness. If you want to talk about real areas and changes in education, let us start and think only about how we will slip out of the obsolete concepts and logic that work up to now in the educational system, namely how we will get more doctors, lawyers, judges and judges and how we will ultimately all help our children to become tomorrow's creators with genuine motives and authentic goals that will emanate from their own want and their own will have the opportunity to cultivate and develop them within school. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Biaghy. Now Mr. Tsakalotos has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece follows. Mr. Chakatus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. It is a great controversy for education, political and social. My teachers taught me that when there are such big disagreements to go to the first authorities to see where the disagreements lie. The first question and the main question is why we have schools. Why don't we allow left-wing children to grow up with left-wings, left-wings, right-wing right-wing right-wing peoples, right-wing Muslims, only the Koran, to the Orthodox ones only? Why don’t we allow children of Ministers only to learn that World War II was just populism, and in favour of social provision, or some other parents to teach them that World War II had an anti-fascist time? Because education is a democratic, universal project. That's education. And that's why societies decided not to allow every parent, every society to teach children the way they want, with their own principles. It's a whole. Only that requires certain conditions for education to be democratic and universal. It takes schools to have a broad social mix, children from all classes, from working class, from the middle class, rich. It takes a second condition, that there should be a mix of different skills, different intelligence, that I would say, how much more when we know that age, from all research and from my own experience as a teacher, children at different ages are evolving. A child who does not show special abilities at 12 can show them at fourteen, sixteen, eighteen, and even at university. I am not very good at predicting how the children who enter or who are more successful are even in university, how much better to judge them from the ages of 12, 14 or 15, how much we know intelligence is not one thing. I wonder. Aren't you parents? Don't you realize that different children have different virtues, that others are good at mathematics, others in literature, that other children have emotional intelligence? The school must have all these things so that we can serve the democratic universal project. Many criticize that school is a state ideological mechanism, that produces and reproduces the dominant ideology, only when school has these conditions, the ideology of the state that wants to impose something, always conflicts with the living experiences of students and teachers, because it comes to a child - immigrant and understands and expresses that things are not as they say in schools and that history can be different. Another student may come and realize that the role of the economy and women is not exactly what the book says. In this context, the private mechanism of the state is being broken and a tendency towards democracy arises when these conditions exist. One of the greatest economists of all time - he has died now, would be my candidate for not taking the Nobel - is Albert O. Hirschman. He wrote a very important book that has great references and is used by all social science and made differentiation between exit and voice. The exit is the way out of the market. You don't like tomato from a shop? You're leaving, you're getting out, and you're buying out of another store. This also applies to cars and clothing and anything. The voice is that you're sitting there talking about something you don't like. The voice is that you have to get involved in a social relationship like school how it can get better. That's why it's not a question of competition, it's school or university. I've told you several times. As a university at universities in Athens - both I have served - I am proud if Yannana or Komotini are going very well. I don't want my school to go any better from the University of Ioannina. There's no question of competition. The question arises of improving all schools and all universities. When Nikos Philis told you this morning who you're talking to, what advice you take from, and in relation to the history of Greek education, Papanouchos, Glenos - I don't remember who else you said, Nikos - he wanted to say how you bring this knowledge, because he didn't just mention theorists. He also mentioned the people who are at the forefront of education whether they are teachers, teachers or university teachers. I have to tell you that this relationship does not appear anywhere in this bill. Because I have three kids who went to high school, high school, high school in Lower Kifisia in public schools, I have to tell you they had this whole mixture. They had a mixture of social from different social classes and different skills, and they had excellent teachers and teachers who loved school and fought too. Have you heard them? Do you think the issue is the standards, which only makes the standard? It's an exit, it's an exit, it gets out of the system the universal, the democratic, it's an exception. When you're excluded, you don't get nervous after improving what's left. You're not nervous to talk about the high school and high school and Kifissia elementary school that my children went to, and you leave the teachers and the kids alone, because it's classic your policy, and that's seen by your speeches, it's not just from the bill. You want to hide it, but you can't. If you ask me, the one thing that New Democracy has done, Madam Minister, which states its competence - I have to choose - was with the two-year programmes that children would take from the ESDP. This showed the trunk how you feel about education. It was like saying to the PES - to remember Dante - "Let anyone enter here throw away any hope from within". We don't care about the PSA children, and that's why we leave them from the one way out. I think that all we hear about is that we want equality downwards, because you do not really understand what the school is and what this democratic universal project we want is for the left and left to serve, not to make students and students on the left and on the left, but to become citizens who can judge both the left and the centre and the right, who can judge the issues that concern them, become citizens and not customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Then, Mr Kastanidis, you will allow me to give the floor to Mr Stamenitis. After Mr. Stamenitis and Mr. Kastanides are Mr. Vernardakis, Mrs. Skondra and then normally follow the list. You, Mr Lambroulis, are an excellent parliamentarian and you understand the procedures. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank my colleagues who gave me the order so that I would then go up to the Bureau to chair. As has been said by our rapporteur, by the Secretary-General and, of course, by the rest of the party speakers, the bill promotes with the commitment of concrete designs and directions, loyal to the strategic choices of the European Union, OECD and other organisations in the field of education following previous legislation, of course adding new materials to the anti-grass building of education and our country. It is precisely from such a draft law that the corresponding 'package', i.e. the heavy headline for the upgrading of the school, could not be missing. Truly, does the bill give answers to concerns, concerns for the best parent wants for his child, that is to say, seeing his child forming all over a healthy and safe school environment, seeing his child happy with the knowledge and socialization that he is given by the school or seeing his child conquer knowledge in a school that is not deprived of in education, infrastructure, cleanliness, workshops and others? Or is it responding and giving solutions to the time-consuming anxiety of their parents for the health of their children on the occasion, and the pandemic, since the issues of prevention and the health of pupils within the school space and the issues of school hygiene are a forgotten case for governments? Does it promote solutions to the problems of a lack of safe infrastructure, since major accidents in schools could be avoided and treated immediately, if there were full-time medical facilities in each school unit and not on the regular basis, after the problem arises, for parents, pupils and teachers to take reassurance measures? Is there any reference in the bill to a more comprehensive plan on the health and the proper development of pupils, namely, what, for example, are included in the first theme entitled 'Live Better - Evian', which actually concerns prevention in a number of areas of the health of our children, pupils? This is not linked to addressing and eliminating all those social and economic factors which affect the health of their own children and their own parents, poverty, unemployment, employment relations, lack of time, etc. or by ensuring healthy and safe conditions for their living, clean school environment, healthy nutrition, eradication of contagious and infectious diseases, physical activity and others; Will these be addressed through the development of skills? Is it an upgrade or not, for example, the introduction of state school health services to state health centres which will provide free primary health care services and are responsible for all schools in the region? Will they monitor the proper development of the child from preschool age to the end of their school life? Will they ensure through a series of free periodic examinations that both physical and mental, social, spiritual and prevention are ensured? Will they be run by doctors of various specialties, pediatricians, psychologists, dentists, athletics, ophthalmists and go by saying? Is it not, for example, the establishment of hospitals in all school establishments with medical, nursing personnel who will take care in cooperation with public health services not only to prevent but will it have an overall picture of each child's health individually? Will it offer health care services from first aid up to and including medical treatment? Will he update the student's health card? Will he make sure that teachers are trained? Will it intervene to comply with the basic health standards in the school unit? Will he exercise health control in the canisters and catering areas of the students? Will he take care of the free vaccination of all students under the responsibility of the state? Will they be linked to the entire state health system, secondary and tertiary? Will this or not be an upgrade of what I mentioned before? So the so-called modernization of education as you present it to us through the bill cannot even be a fig sheet to hide the nakedness of the educational areas from what students are entitled to, but also students, in order to be truly upgraded. Because the recesses you want to ratify with the bill, in which we of course have specific criticism, cannot stabilise a clay-based system. Of course, we understand and do not have intentions. On the contrary, your system is being tried where it has reached such a point that its intrinsic contradictions have reached their limits, so that it does not just want but cannot give, it is no longer able to provide anything to the peoples of the world, including our own people. With a sad occasion for the coronary in any form of its management the capitalist system has shown that it has been finished. It has shown that not only can it guarantee treatment, but that it cannot even prevent the spread of the disaster. And this system that grows and puts indifferent to the lives of millions of people, cannot be committed to upgrading Greek education. On the contrary, the superiority of the central planning that puts an end to the anarchy of the capitalist jungle is defending and we are proposing it unreservedly at all levels of social and economic life. Because only in this way can those vital needs of upgrading also be met in education. The equipment of the educational facilities through those which allow the quality of life of students in all the corners of a country from the capital to the urban centres and from there to the province proved to be decades ago in the socialist countries that it is not a luxury, let alone today. That is why we point out the mockery and remind the people how it lives in order not to comply with your upgrades - everyone! - but to walk on the path proposed by the JRC, which has proved to be the best way for the people to gain the upgrade of their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr. Stamenitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister of State, as early as 2018, in the presentation of the New Democracy programme for education it was made clear by the then leader of the Opposition and current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis that as a party we perceive and treat the educational system as a mechanism for social mobility that provides valuable knowledge and skills, creating equal opportunities for labour growth and personal development. In a world that constantly increases its demands, which personal and professional progress is associated with the coexistence of knowledge, digital training, communication skills, creative thinking and social sensitivity and consciousness, we cannot wait and insist on sterile teaching programs that focus only on acquiring knowledge. Unfortunately, for many years the debate in the country on education has taken place - we would say - in a password. We've heard of it today. The ideological voices opposing the development and qualitative upgrading of school and university kept our educational system established in a field that should be dominated by arguments, the submission of proposals and the creative conflicts aimed at adopting policies for quality, public education, some chose the screams against any modernistic proposal aimed at getting the Greek education system out of the staircase. That is how we have remained a mere spectator of the educational development of the other developed countries, which have long closed their issues such as asylum, private universities, foreign-language departments, the learning of foreign languages from several small ages. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] Fortunately, however, the New Democracy Party never ceased to fight for the implementation and implementation of its ideas in the field of education against antiquated perceptions and ideological strugglings has always chosen evolution, quality and effective education, open horizons, modern teaching methods, extroverted open to universities ideas, linking education to the labour market, as well as developing critical thinking and forming an integrated student. In this direction is the specific draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs to upgrade the school we are discussing today. In its 115 articles, the leadership of the Ministry of Education introduces innovations and improves regulations addressing our educational system as a single set. We therefore have in front of us a bill attempting to change the educational programme and the educational processes. Firstly, with the pilot implementation of skills workshops in the mandatory preschool, primary and high school program from the next school year. It is a substantial turn in modern school, where students will develop skills beyond knowledge with emphasis on subjects such as volunteering, road safety, entrepreneurship, robotics, mutual respect. Apparently these are classics against SYRIZA MPs. Second, with the pilot implementation of student involvement with English still from kindergarten through creative activities. And that's a class choice, obviously. Thirdly, by strengthening computing, classics, foreign languages and physical education. Fourthly, by facilitating the methods of evaluation and follow-up of the progress and evolution of pupils through the introduction of research work and an increase in the courses considered. Fifth, the reintroduction of the theme bank to the high school classes. Another class option obviously for SYRIZA Members! But finally, with the introduction of the so-called "dollar" course, this enables students to deepen into cognitive fields beyond what they have chosen as the principal. Global knowledge and general education are thus strengthened. I would like to continue to focus on the legalisation of the framework for evaluation of both the school unit and the educational project, a concept which has been possessed and worked out by those who are followers of regression and stagnation. We have a different philosophy. We see evaluation as a weapon to favorism, as an ally of merit and equality, and we know that when we talk about progress and development, about equal opportunities, about social mobility, evaluation cannot be absent, especially in education, which is primarily required to serve this. Furthermore, the strengthening and broadening of the institution of the pilot and experimental schools is also a legislative regulation which implements a basic political choice of the current government, which had promised in the run-up to the election. I'm closing my place with the regulations for tertiary education. He commented yesterday, and colleagues have pointed it out today, and the Minister said it for years now, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, saying that strengthening the extroversion of Greek universities is one of the steps to be taken to further the development of our universities. The establishment of foreignlanguage undergraduate courses introduces Greek universities into the international academic community while enabling them to exploit their scientific training and inspiring potential. The introduction of summer sections strengthens the position of Greek institutions and attracts foreign students with undeniable benefits that this development can have in a wide range of fields, such as the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law shows that the New Democracy Government is facing education as a whole and not a fragment. It doesn't just change things to change them, but it introduces substantial and innovative arrangements aimed at providing more supplies to students and students, integrated and global education, continuous development and improvement, in forming a whole personality through the development of critical and creative thinking. Before I close, I would like to congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs on the organized way it has acted during the health crisis and the first wave of the pandemic. As the father of two children, high school and primary school students, I can say that I have in practice seen a serious and organised effort and work done during this period. I think it was a test in which the Ministry and the educational community responded impeccably by filling all of us with optimism for the future of the country's education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u273	We will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Castanides. After Mr. Castanides, Mr. Vernardakis, Mrs. Skondra. We'll continue on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister assured that he had a large part of the debate before the parliamentary committee and yesterday in plenary. Despite his assurance, I am sure that the very opposite happened, because then he would not claim and would not ask whether there were any arguments on the part of the Antipolitics to the detriment of the bill proposed by the Minister of Education. I had the opportunity yesterday to raise a number of issues, from which school we want to serve the most educational system, from the issues of excellence and innovation, to the mistakes made with the proposed regulations on higher education. If he had been following the debate, he would obviously have listened to, I suppose, strong arguments. But the Prime Minister did something else. In order to strengthen the image of his government, as well as the arguments - patient I must say - the government representatives made reference to the French and Alexandros Delmuzos. There's a critical historical detail. All those mentioned were prosecuted by the conservative party and the conservative status quo of that time. The ideological and political forefathers of today's conservative party, for example, persecuted Alexander Delmuzo after his term of office at Volos Parentry. Other teachers who belonged to the movement of educational municipalism were persecuted. I would recommend to him that he look very carefully at an early municipalist and his history, his life, George Hard, who, during the successful inspiration of Alexandra Deligiorgis, lived together with death, to see what the persecutions he suffered from the conservative establishment of the time were. If he's a retarded self-criticist, he's an investigator, because self-criticism has consequences. You need to be corrected. It calls for excellence in model schools and innovation in experimental schools. But when you seek excellence, the first thing you have to do is choose the excellence masters that will supervise schools of excellence. Is it not a strange contradiction that the board of experimental and model schools consists of executives all selected by the Minister of Education alone? It is no coincidence that there is absolutely no mention of how the government understands the work of the assessor, the process of evaluating the educational work and the teacher. It's moving on well-known conservative tracks. Ladies and gentlemen, in the history of education, throughout the modern modern Greek state, we have never experienced reforms of education that were sealed by conservative groups. Never. If you might be able to speak, not about reform, but about a glimpse of the moment, the introduction of the primary language into our educational system is during the post-population process. But this did not constitute a comprehensive educational reform. All the reforms - and I could name many - belong to the progressive party, to the democratic party. An effort was made, starting with the Minister of State, to demonstrate the value of excellence and referred to schools and their recorders. I understand the emotional tone. Although I'm a genuine public education kid, I won't watch them. I will make a general remark. The teachers who enlightened our lives are everywhere. It's both experimental and standard schools. He's in the common school too. They are also in public education and private education institutions. He is in primary and secondary education, but also in tertiary education. For these teachers who enlightened our lives, it's worth doing their best in their memory. In the name of their work to make the best effort for a common acceptance educational system. I'm going to stay in two remarks. It won't allow me time to be more detailed. Firstly, as far as the translations are concerned. Previously, the demographic problem was solved by arrangements concerning education and the educational system. All of us today agree that the country is facing a serious demographic problem. Nevertheless, the predictions for relocation, the movement of children of tents and three-six families are very unrealistic. I invite you, Minister, to be generous. Obviously we are interested in all categories of families and children for which it is necessary either to relocate or move. But if we want the same method, through the educational system, to tackle the demographic problem, then we need to extract the three-tier and multiple families to a special category, regulate things differently for them or be far more brave in their molecules. I would like to make a second comment. I also told you in my protagonist that the way in which the Republican authorities were elected is turning us back many years. It is good that there is a diffusion of political preferences. That is why it is wrong that the dean's single ballot, which together with the candidates selected, is claiming the vote of the academic community. In my opinion, there should be a single vote, a different vote for the beatings and counteracting them. I would also repeat the idea that parts of the academic body that are today excluded should also be involved. I referred to both the EDPS and the EIB and the EDPS. In any case, I will not go back to matters relating to soft skills and English or the shortcomings in our education system. But I call on you, Minister, if in future, sooner or later, to discuss the essential issues of education, that these should be the subject of a wide-ranging political and social dialogue, of course with the participation of teachers at all levels, so that we can reach the most beneficial educational system for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u275	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Christoforos Vernardakis from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Mrs. Skondra, Mrs. Raptis, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, Mr. Bluchos will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I will take the thread from where the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement left it, who spoke earlier. There is one question if the Prime Minister has indeed followed the debate that has taken place. If he had followed her, she would not, in my opinion, avoid responding to something that might in some way involve him personally. I am referring to the demolition of the sociology course, which has become a big issue for the relevant bodies, the deterioration of the social sciences' courses, such as political education. There are letters and memos from all scientific bodies, and indeed, there is an impression that there is no reference to this issue, since his first degree from Harvard, from what is mentioned in the official curriculum, is a degree in social science. However, there is a lack of fish silence on this major issue. I will concentrate mainly on issues of higher education, because there has been a very extensive debate on both kindergarten and standards and conduct. It is true that the bill is found by many problematic provisions at all levels. But here, as far as higher education is concerned, the government has two objectives. The first objective is the practical circumvention of Article 16 and the surgical privatisation of the structures of the public university - it does not hide it - the business university. The second objective is something broader, involving the other grades. It is the creation of a system of school choice, which will, through parallel rejections, create a university at the end of the educational hierarchy for a few, limit or shrink social mobility through education, which has been a component of post-war social contracts. That is why around the university, around higher education, there are very serious changes in this bill. The first major change is that it goes back to the Greek university in the 1970s and 60s, leading the university before the enlightenment of the framework law, which was the famous 1982 law. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister has made a reference today, it seems that he has not understood exactly what happened with the 1982 framework law, as he has obviously not understood and what is being reversed with his current legislation. The emblematic provision in this law, for this matter, is the exclusion from the selection process of all academic institutions, EDPS, Special Scientific Staff, Technical Personnel and postdoctoral students, doctoral and postgraduate students. Let me remind you that the Greek university is now something very wide, not just the teachers, it's not just the teachers. It is a broad academic community and research community, which produces teaching work, produces research work. And, of course, I am not talking at all about undergraduate students or administrative staff, which should obviously also be a component of this, and it was under the 1982 law that student participation and administrative participation in the appropriate measures, of course, were relevant to them. Here, today, the election of all university institutions is attributed exclusively to the existing LPI members, not only for the rectorial elections, but also to the quasi-budgetary and the election of the head of department, but also to the director of the sector. Incidentally, this is where Mr Gerapetritis should finally answer whether this exclusion is at the limits of constitutionality. Will he respect his opinion in 2011 or is there no issue of constitutionality? But what's going on here? Watch out for the puzzle, which is created around tertiary education. The Government does not give any new positions to new scientific staff - these kinds of development, excellence and Brain drain obviously are included in the sphere of independent - and it has not approved any new position for universities - it certainly also applies to research centres, which have already left them under the responsibility of another Ministry - it does not allow for the replacement of at least those retired under the law, with the result that universities lose around five hundred and six hundred people every year throughout Greece, to shrink sections, schools and entire universities. These are given, and given that the remaining university potential is evolving into steps now and does not form a pyramid, that is to say, the first stage, the exclusion from the election of university institutions, is, in fact, a major counter-reformation. We have actually reinstated the reactionary regime of the '70s seat'. This provision is emblematic about how the university and research community are perceived. The university is not, in this sense, a knowledge cell and the production of knowledge is not a collective scientific process, it is not a dynamic process of interdisciplinary and cognitive relations. Indeed, Minister, I asked you in committee too: Why do you think that in scientific journals, which are evaluated, scientific articles are signed by one, two, from three, from ten, from thirteen scientists, many of whom are EDPS, they are an MIP, they are a postdoctoral? Let me remind you now what you've done at university. You have undermined the guaranteed funding by 80-20, you have limited self-sufficiency by entrusting the National Higher Education Authority with basic public policy competences, you have deprived from the universities the two-year vocational training programmes, you have recognized the diplomas of private colleges as professional, equal to university, you have extended the deforestation of scientific training. And today you're completing the puzzle with a complete frontal privatization attack. Foreign language departments. It is characteristic that since the first edition of the bill - which entered the consultation - the original forecast was deducted from the budget of the Ministry of Education. Really, how many of these programs do you intend to make? Aren't they all going to constitute a parallel structure to the university? And I would like to ask you: when you suspended the operation of the thirty-seven departments which the universities themselves had decided on, you said at the time that there were no sustainability studies, feasibility studies and so on. Today, these foreign-language studies where are they? Why, for example, do you believe - and where this belief is based - that foreign students will be rushing to Greece to pay for these programmes? If there is this whole study, shouldn't you testify to the House? Second attempt to privatize: Summer curriculum. The original bill also removed the original provision of funding from the Ministry of Education's budget and, of course, the well-known student charges were introduced. Third theme: The State Certificate of Language Learning. Article 90 has been removed on the financing of the special accounts of the PPE, the ERC and the EDF for the State Certificate of Language, namely a certification programme, and it is, of course, obvious that you are being approached by the privatisation process as well. One question after all: You say you will bring a framework law. I really don't understand what's coming to regulate. You have established everything here, you have deregulationd everything, unless we think seriously now - we need to start thinking - that the new framework law will reintroduce the seat - officially now - and will introduce student charges even indirectly and on an undergraduate level.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u277	And finish, Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u278	Just a minute and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u279	Not one, you already took half a minute, if you look at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u280	Your tolerance, Mr President. The world of education is boiling, you don't understand it, obviously. A vast majority of the scientific bodies were excluded in the hearing. I mention the Association of Greek Geologists and the Hellenic Geological Society, the Committee for the Teaching of Geological Sciences, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Legal and Political Sciences, the Association of Greek Sociologists, the Association of Informatics of Greece, the dean of the Agricultural University that we proposed to him as the responsible coordinator of the Greek universities for the programme of the European Universitys, the federations of the EDPS, the EIB, the SPD, dialogue with no scientific arguments. I have asked you five good questions in committee to understand exactly how you are thinking. No answer! The world of education - and I am ending with it - is almost all society, all social strata. When political leadership underestimated this reality, they were in front of tragic deadlocks. Education in Greece for historical reasons is the space for imprinting social alliances and social contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u281	Finish, Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u282	As many times as in the Cultivation ideological politicians - and there have been several - have gone to ignore social contracts and prevent the children of people's families from studying and seeking opportunities for better individual life - because this is the real objective, the instability of excellence not of excellence, but of excellence - in fact they have eaten their faces. The bill will not just be voted down by us, all its reactionary and anti-educational provisions - it has to be stated from now - will be abolished by the next democratic government, and this must be clear and clear to the Greek people, the educational community and, of course, to you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u283	Good. Next speaker, Mrs Skondra Silina, from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Education and the academic community, the educational community, the parents, the children for the immediate way they responded to the challenges of pandemic and education. Also, to congratulate the Ministry's leadership, because within this unprecedented and difficult situation it designed, consulted and presents today a modern and comprehensive bill right within the framework of our government program. The debate on this draft law, however, 'State School Upgrade and other provisions' is taking place in a very intensified climate, with the Qualified Opposition and trade union groups expressing their opposition when the bill is commonly professed to bring useful and significant changes to all levels of education. Requires the opposition to withdraw the bill. And in order to define a common basis in the public debate, I ask: do we all agree on what education and what should be its objective? I'm afraid not. If we look at colleagues' comments at the committee meetings, we will see clearly that there is no common basis or common understanding, only a common secret, ladies and gentlemen, that education in Greece, unfortunately, is suffering. With exceptional difficulty, the education, education and the cultivation of skills and virtues of our young people are achieved. Many obstacles and gaps in the transmission of knowledge and values to the new generation, which will enable its proper integration and activity within society. However, the essential question here is not who is to blame. We remain trapped instead of correcting the problem, constantly seeking blame. Sadly, some continue to create and rear the vicious cycle of degradation. Features: With regard to the introduction of activities in English in infants, only incoherences and irrationalities you had to tell us. Ms. Skoufas, on her main argument that English is caratotizing the personality of infants, adding your favorite theory, that of conspiracy, that there is an American finger in the form of a cheque of American schools and universities behind this initiative. Mr. Delis considers that children have several representations in English from TV and computer games, so there is no need for educational contact and familiarity with English. Other Members say that contact with English will be a barrier to learning Greeks. They ignore that preschool children are exposed in more than one language to multiple cognitive benefits. This shows international investigations, but that for SYRIZA is rather proof of yet another conspiracy. For skill workshops piloted by the preschool, primary and high schools programme, criticism was again made. You note that school other than education should provide students with comprehensive knowledge by providing supplies and education that will enable them to respond to life. The speed of social and economic changes in modern times requires vigilance, adaptation to technology and innovation, development of skills, but, with critical thought, morality and quality characters involved with values, visions and ideals. This is the target of skill labs. In a modern society we need modern education and our worthwhile kindergarteners, our teachers and our teachers will undertake to teach valuable skills and deliver to society excellent, responsible and active citizens. Reactions to standards and experimental schools, again with severe characterisations. Mr. Philis described the network of pilot and experimental schools as a carcinoma in the inner parts of public education, which will be excavated and fed by the bleeding of the other schools. Do you understand what these schools are, and what is the point? The standards aim at strengthening excellence in the sense of the constant self-assurance of pupils. They are bringing about a strengthening of social mobility. Children from all parts of Greece and from all social and economic strata will have equal opportunities in life and in the future. And here, Minister, I would like to say that because Western Thessaly, Karditsa and Trikala belong to the disadvantaged areas, we would like to see a model school set up there at some point. Experimental studies focus on the implementation of new practices and tools in a sample of the student population. They will act as national dimension workshops to design and implement differentiated and innovative educational policies. Requesting our Government is that all schools in the country operate with the same high characteristics, be creative, quality, open and extroverted. You are averting the functioning of these schools and the ability of pupils to improve their practices in education. Besides, for you excellence is a relic. This is the huge difference between us, ladies and gentlemen. You ask permanently for a general deterioration so that everyone can get comfortable without trying and denying it. A few days ago SYRIZA's youth didn't ask students to go through without any test criteria? Is that what you want? Everyone equals, but low. We want children's education and educational capital high, for all and constantly improving. You react to the foreign language departments of the Greek universities. The bilingualism and hypocrisy of some have no limits. You blame the universities for doing business to bring resources and students from abroad. You spoke of a parallel higher education system at the expense of the existing one, privatization and the deterioration of the public university. In other words, you tell us, gentlemen, that you want our universities to remain entrenched institutions, without international radiation, without a place on the global educational map. You do not, however, explain how the creation of new capabilities and their involvement with international practices degrades the university. You once again put obstacles to extroversion, research, innovation, because you remain locked in your ideological microcosm. I'm closing up with the evaluation. Our differences are proud. We, over time, believe that to improve a system, including the educational system, should always be assessed in conjunction with training actions for professional development. Our aim is excellence, modernisation, extroversion and evaluation, which therefore means worthy of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the good news of the bill is a lot. Time's too short. Very important, Minister, is the institution of the School Life Adviser and the effort for a safe school environment. Very important is the double moleculation of servants in difficult areas, such as the Argithea of Karditsa. Because all children have the right to school and, above all, the farmer's children, the worker's children, the breeder's children. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis and our Government are investing in the future. The best investment for the future is our children, who deserve the upgrade and the supplies provided by this reform bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u285	The next speaker is Mrs Zoe Rapti from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of Education and Religion, which clearly illustrates the basic orientation and the axes for improving the education provided in our country, for which we had made an election commitment. I would like to take this step in congratulating the Minister of Education and the Deputys because, in keeping with our election announcements, they have brought us planned arrangements and targeted interventions with a view to reforming the curriculum and strengthening our educational work at all levels. Known for these targeted arrangements was the New Democracy's specific philosophy of pursuing excellence, about the global education of our children, but also about the forging of a solid and virtuous character that will give wings to tomorrow's citizens to pursue their dreams without fainting in their first difficulty. Unfortunately, at least since post-population, and then each government tries to implement, sometimes successfully, others with a huge failure, its own policies in the field of education, usually abolishing important reforms of the former. That is what SYRIZA promised to do before us a little while ago when he comes back to the government, as Mr Bernardakis assured us. On the road to the degradation of the great educational institutions of the other governments has proved to be the government of SYRIZA during the period 2015-2019, and that is why I can also see the reactions that have taken place in these days by a portion of counterpopulation during the discussion of the bill. And that's understandable because the principles that run the bill are the assessment, it's the extroversion and the excellence, principles and values that SYRIZA opposed when he came to the government. We all remember the famous saying of your Minister that "excellence is retsini", which as a philosophy has in practice been reflected in your political decision to effectively abolish the concept of the model school, as well as the evaluation of teachers in them, as well as the introductory examinations in experimental schools. What, though, are the innovations of this bill? In this bill innovative interventions are being undertaken, starting from kindergarten to university. Today we need more than ever to move away from this sterile transmission of knowledge and signal a return to the new modern school of the first 20th century, the school that emphasizes the culture of special skills. It is very important to say that the skill workshops which are being set up introduce children in a mild way into all the issues that concern humanity, such as volunteering, ecology, addiction prevention, respect for diversity, precisely in order to cultivate their critical thinking. At the same time, however, they also bring them into contact with the modern world of robotics and entrepreneurship, issues that many adults will soon be asked to deal with as adults effectively. Now, creative work in English already in kindergarten is not understood because it causes anaphylaxis in opposition. It is a method that applies to more than fourteen European Union countries, and even to advanced educational systems such as that of Finland. This will familiarize our children earlier with the language of global understanding, English, without any cost to parents. The reason for your stubborn refusal to do so has still not been explained here. In relation to experimental schools and standards. This draft law strengthens this institution, an institution which has been dealt with by prejudice by the previous government, an institution which is coming to be enlarged with ours. These schools are jointly an educational workshop for national dimensions for the implementation of innovative educational policies. That is why it is very important that more children, especially children of low income families, should be given the opportunity to learn about them. I therefore welcome, too, the fact that twenty-eight standards and thirty-four experimental schools in the country will be in operation since September, and then the expansion of this institution is foreseen by issuing an open call for the conversion of schools into standards and experimental ones. In relation to what we have heard about the institution of evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, without indicators of quality and without results of the educational process, there is no way to detect weaknesses, nor, of course, to increase the educational system in time for the benefit of our students. That is why it is very important that we establish this coherent framework for the evaluation of the school unit, which has essentially been based on programming, self-assessment and external evaluation, as has been thoroughly analysed. Finally, in relation to the institution of the School Life Adviser. Years we have witnessed cases of intra-school violence, intimidation or racism. Every time I think of both the little wrongdoer Alex and Nikos from Argyroupoli, whose loss we experienced in the most tragic way as a society the failure of the educational system to diagnose as likely and face the evil that was coming. It is our duty to ensure that all the tragic effects of intra-school violence are eliminated, as cases are growing. Therefore, in this direction the institution of the school advisor, which is a bridge between pupils, parents and teachers, is a very important institution to resolve all these issues in the school environment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to focus in particular on strengthening higher education under the provisions of the bill. With the establishment of the foreign-language undergraduate courses from each university separately, as well as the organization of foreign-language postgraduate courses for students outside the European Union, for the first time we give Greece the opportunity to become an educational hub in the Eastern Mediterranean and to attract students from the Middle East and from Asia. We all understand this educational and the economic value of such an event for our country. We have confidence in the public university and we have to give the great institutions we have as a country to show their quality and adequacy by offering competitive curriculum. Finally, one reason for the translations, Madam Minister, of the students, which we have spoken about. As part of our commitment to multi-faceted support for multi-faceted families, I would like to ask, in turn, for you to see the question of supporting substantially the free relays for multi-texts, a programme that was in place under Law 860/1979. Otherwise, consider whether you can offer more additional molecules for the children of these families, by giving you in turn another incentive to increase births in our country, but also by reducing these families from their financial costs to have many children study at universities. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my speech, I cannot applaud the obscene efforts of the Prime Minister but also a pool of the political leadership of the Ministry of Education, who, in cooperation with the infectious scientists, have not only ensured the public health of our children and teachers, in good time, by making a lockdown, but have succeeded in continuing the training process during the quarantine using those new technologies that allow distance education. And most importantly, they safely brought the students back to the shredder. This has contributed our teachers to the fullest extent and I would like to thank them very much from this step and, in particular, the teachers of the Third High School, who support our children daily on the difficult road to the pan-Hellenics. I would also like to wish the children a success here again in their examinations, starting next Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education's bill is true that it is being introduced into this year, but it is primarily about the future of the next generation of our country. We must not let another opportunity for the progress of our education in this place to be lost. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u287	Mrs Anagnostopoulos Athanasia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard all these days a rhetoric about excellence, rhetoric about people, about the party that is interested in raising education and arrows, complaints, charges against anti-Population, particularly of the Anti-Population Officer, that it is in favour of a minor effort - the Minister told us infinitely - or of moderate democracy, as we heard from the Minister, Mr Gerapetritis. First of all, I am really impressed in this House by the courage of some people. You're accusing us of minor effort and modesty, when you abolished from the president of the Foundation of Greek Culture a Constantine Tsukala - you seemed a little bit - to put a gentleman who - I'm sorry, I don't remember his name - specializes in school excursions abroad... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...when you have appointed in positions of people who, until the day before yesterday, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Tourism admitted that he does not have a degree. Although I have many degrees, I never judge the value of people from degrees. You do it and you appear here who have come by order of the Prime Minister himself to be able to justify appointment to a commander of the NDP without a degree. They have a limit on lies and nerve. And I will insist on Constantine Tsukala. Does a Constantine Tsukalas have an abundance in this country? Does it look a little sized to replace him? Or is it because he's a sociologist? Or did you want a younger man of the same qualifications? There are too many young people. So you keep talking to us all the time, the Minister tells us that we are in favour of a minor effort. A stereotype is formulated in recent years systematically, consistently and with a mechanism behind you to support it, that the Left and the progressive world historically are in favour of minor effort. Why? Because changes and perceptions need to be legitimized which are now coming. That's why this stereotype is being created. Once there were other stereotypes for the left and the democratic world. Bring them back whenever it suits you. But in recent years this has been systematic. Standard schools and experimental schools. I won't get into the process if the school models are fascist. I said that in certain historical times this debate is going on. It's elite school models that way. It's elitism and it creates castes, and I'll explain why. Because excellence, excellent students, very good students should be in osmosis with all children, because children come from different social environments, from different spiritual environments, they have other mental abilities, other emotional abilities and children should be in osmosis, because we want schools that will ensure children entry in inclusion in society rather than entry into society through the exclusion of people. I'm not going to follow Mr. Gerapetritis and I to tell you my personal path. But in this House we should listen to our personal routes. But I'll just say one thing. I, Minister, am grateful to France for seeing foreign students not as foreigners as students. So he didn't see them as an economic size, saw them as students, and put them in osmosis with the French. He did not have a separate network within the universities, where there will be foreign students who will pay and you said almost mocking "do not want foreign students to pay". No, Minister. Osmosis within universities, extrovert into universities and you will allow me to say it - I know more - osmosis is the students from different origins, ethnic and other, to come into relation to each other, to come into a relationship between the teachers, to create such an environment. Unless you think the French universities were compensatory and downward. Sociology. Second stereotype: Any social science has a problem, it is problematic. I've heard you horror say that history must not have anything to do with social sciences, the very flagship of social sciences, which cannot answer any other science, must not have anything to do with it! What will this story have to do with? You say to us'sociology there are so many lessons'. There aren't any. Let's call the sociologists to explain. Stereo third. I'm passing fast because I don't have time. I could say a lot. Teachers. We even heard reporters say about the teachers saying 'they didn't want the cameras, because they are lazy, because they don't, because they don't.' Teachers, especially in the past twenty years, twenty-five years in Greece - and this House has to recognize it - have had to do with multiple-entry students, if you know what I mean. And this without an educational system that goes along with the teachers to be able to help them. They made it themselves. Multiple identities mean to include students from completely different environments within the student community and then within the Greek society. So we want to get the teachers out as lazy, those who refuse this assessment you want. Because teachers do not deny an evaluation that will give them the tools to be able to make their work a little more comfortable. I won't tell you anything because I come from an educational environment. Professor is rated from the first moment, every hour he hits his foot in the classroom. Have you been in a school environment, 15-year-olds, 16-year-olds, 17-year-olds, especially in the crisis? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have a great deal to say, but I will end with one thing. We want a public school that's excellent for everyone. We don't want a public school that nursing the exquisite to join another team and suck the public system. And yes, our rapporteur is right. You may not like the phrase or the wording, but you disguise the public system. We want public universities with real extroversion that have osmosis with foreign students, with foreigners and Greeks, without seeing foreigners as an economic size. Watch out for that! Many of us who studied abroad couldn't have done it. He's Mr. Vassilikos here, and he knows very well what I'm talking about. I am proud that we have placed IPA positions, which we have given academic and teaching experience to stop the Brain Drain, which we have created the ELIDEK, which we have done for the relocations of social criteria first of all, because we cannot in time of crisis say that I have set the academic criteria. I understand the difficulty very well, but you cannot leave the social criteria on the margin. I close with a word of a great English historian from one of the very good public universities in England, when tetchism hit education. He said: "Public higher education is very good because it is free and it is free because it is a very good thing". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u289	The next speaker is Mr Constantine Blouchos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, bad school is the easy school. It is bad education that does not have the necessary education, absolutely and unavoidably. You may have seen the news that a class of medical students protested after a pandemic with requests: Unacceptable conditions of reopening workshops and clinics. Recognition of the semester now. Conservation of the semester course without exams and supplements. Labs and clinics should be considered as taught. The irrationality of these demands lies in the entire uterus of educational zeroing, which the party of the Major Opposition has expressed manifestly through its recommendations to this bill for a number of months. Let's not forget to hug this thought school as well: medical degree with the post office at home. I'm saying it because of my capacity. Opposition designations to the bill: The foundations of a twist of education you called the bill. The attempted degradation of the bill and the reformist only brings with such foggy positions as yours, promoting synonymological impression, not only does it not negligence a sign of the proposed changes, but rather it extends your ideological suffocation and essentially, despite your anggression about the opposite, gradually become part of the process of accepting and consolidating the legislation as a fundamental necessity. You hypocritically say that children are being experimented against the logic of punishing evaluation, that there is educational elitism, nicknamed excellence. You say that all this threatens the schools of equality and freedom that you have created. This is where the perversion and educational zeroing lie, because if we do not see the long-lasting pathogens and the damage you have caused, our worst nightmares will come alive. We will see, as we can see, whether we are hypocrites or not, the tank of knowledge is licensed by the necessary, unarmed, urban stunts of science and technology. Prerequisite for equality and democracy is a culture of logic. The only weapon that our democracy needs at the level of education is to evaluate and judge. On the contrary, a delusional democracy, in which you confess, is disastrous. That is why it would be advisable for you to limit your opposition malignancies and redefine your agoaphobic leftlessness of the minor effort, equilibrium, team isopedism. Or state clearly that you're followers of moderate rule or misdemeanor. You are talking about changes that lead to the ghettoisation of schools, you enthusiasts of indifferent ghettoism, denouncing the necessity of diversification, the essential evaluation as the foundation stone of democracy. This isotope left-wing empathy betrays the poverty of your arguments and states your untreated political compulsion. You do not realize that by evoking all these resounding and splendid expressions, you are annulling or rather self - esteeming. You put forward a theoretical openness and an inappropriate pluralism in education. You present it as a fighter for equality and the democratic concept in education. But your argument is an empty meaning. For example, the toxicity you invoke and is necessarily done today, you are constantly using it by means of a forward transfer, a sliding, and making it the same in liquid and unnecessarily unnecessarily. The toxicity of SYRIZA is the swimming pool of Siloam. It is the dogmatic coating, which despite the shifts, continues to use its executives, despite their forced vocabulary enrichment from modern reasoning. Use terms such as: Investment and growth, now. So the toxicity spells have been of little use to your ever shrinked party audience. Major Opposition has overwhelmed the importance of words as a government, but has now continued and is catalysing in the name of a populism and extreme bourgeoisie, which have contributed to the dissolution of social cohesion and have been emphatically based on all levels of classicity. The Indian and synonymous form of the left-wing model of equality, the reflection of which is a misguided toxicity, because it is uncovered toxicity against effort, diversification and excellence. You question reality in the midst of your contradictions and paradoxes. You're undermining her with shots at dispersal. But this to succeed requires synchronization and compatibility with reality. But you, despite your desperate efforts, lost contact with modern reality. You lose it like sand from the palm of a little boy. I find it regrettable that the Elasson Anti-Policy attempts to run on two boats, and progressive salt SYRIZA and modernist salt Diamantopoulou. According to Elassona Opposition, the Minister drafted the most reactionary bill, made no dialogue, left no unspeakable step and the Minister is also bold in terms of excellence. What does excellence mean, so where does the Minister hide the boldness? But it speaks of people's thirst for reforms in education, but nowhere does it detect the big problem, nowhere does it make a self-critical endemic for our post-government years. And, of course, points of action by an excellent Minister, Mrs Diamantopoulou, are no more a swimming pool of Siloam, where decades of worthwhile levelling are washed out. Ladies and gentlemen, post-multiple school is rich in rights, but lacks obligations. The democratic school aims to form free citizens by means of compulsoryity. School should teach students letters and in the learning process evaluation has a primary role, otherwise everything is in the air. Therefore, all this is done, Minister, Madam and Mr Secretary-General, and let it be awkward. Attention, however, is needed because the application of the law in this respect is left to the teacher. If teachers do not want, all of this can be done in advance and put off in practice. It must be shown that our educational community has our confidence and our respect. The educational bill describes the intensification and realization of school studies. He wants to install the school of alertness and high requirements, and of course, time will show whether he will succeed. His vote is urgent, since it includes significant changes that will take effect from the coming school year. We're too late. Let us move on, voting for it. Madam Minister, Madam President-in-Office, I acknowledge and praise your excellent intentions, your reformist mood, and I look forward to an irresponsible spirit, because unfortunately the total self-evident in Greece is negotiable. Every society has the education it deserves. Let's prove that we deserve better. We must finally end with the hedonical self-help that the vicious cycle of zero education has condemned us. Beyond the voluntary vote, good follow-up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u291	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to inform you that the Minister, Mr Georgiades, has asked for two amendments. We will give him the floor immediately, and then we will continue from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u292	For communication!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u293	For communication very gladly. Let's have a lecture here, if you want. Since you tell me, Mr President, I cannot publicly express my delight at the bill by the Minister of State's Minister, which is absolutely excellent. Well, there are two amendments I have tabled and I come to explain them to answer any questions that I have raised. The first is very simple. What's he doing? It allows continued funding through the ESDP programmes for all the actions of the relevant educational structures, i.e. nursery and child-care stations, where we have the wonderful vouchers, paid through the NSRF and for which there was a suspension of operation during the COVID period. So that the programmes that had been suspended during the COVID could continue now, and that is why we are bringing it back into operation again. I do not think there will be any objections from any party here. It's completely technical in nature, which is about how the NRP works. The second amendment, which is of great interest to you and could cause some discussion, is the amendment whereby we provide the possibility of partial implementation for the demolition of the facilities and buildings located within the metropolitan park of the Greek. In other words, you remember the fuss we had here about the possibility that HELENIKO S.A. would be able to entrust the buyer or guarantor of this property - in this case, to the company "LAMDA" - to begin the preparatory work for demolition of the arbitrary buildings before the final transfer of the property from the Greek State to the investor. Why is that so? Because the process of completing the transfer was still a long way, since, as you know, there is a legal dispute between the two companies claiming the casino and justice needs to be ruled out to get the majority, to decide the Court of Auditors to complete the tender procedure for the casino and then to make the transfer. So that we do not waste time at the start of the project, since, anyway, the start of the project would start with the demolitions of the existing buildings, which are too much - what should be demolished are hundreds of buildings - we give the opportunity to the "ELLENIKI S.A.", following an act of accreditation issued by the Minister of Development, which involves a licence to demolition, start work, start the bulldozers, and start demolition of existing buildings, other than of course that have been classified as a preserver, on the basis of the terms and the permits issued by the Ministry of the Environment. On this basis, therefore, following the vote on this amendment and the adoption of my own ministerial decision, perhaps even by the end of this week, the company "ELLINIKI SA" will be able to make the first contract with the company "LAMDA" and start the famous bulldozers in Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u294	Good. Are there any questions? Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will be tempting to comment on the fact that we are already in the 11th month of the government and you have been disproved many times for the week that you would solve all the administrative issues of the Greek and also for the bulldozers who would enter by the end of the year. This is also known in Greek society that it was absolutely lies everything you said about the Greek issue and the reality at today's meeting is coming to confirm it. However, I would like to ask a few questions about the amendment. This amendment, if I am not mistaken, comes to amend your recent law on water routes. So the first question is: do you admit, with this amendment, that it was wrong with the legislation you brought about in relation to the waterways and now you are going to amend it? Because this Parliament must know, if it were, in fact, wrong with the previous regulation, which you defended and we pointed out to you that there is a serious issue. The second, which is even more important, Mr President, and I would like to ask, is this: who will bear the cost of demolition? Because at the moment it was known that the owner of the project after the transfer of shares would cover the cost of demolition and now a question arises whether "ELELENIKI SA" will bear the cost if the Greek State has any cost, how to transfer the costs and credits from anyone, how to distribute this project. The last question, which may not be so formal, but is politics, is this: How many amendments will you finally be forced to submit to demolition some buildings? Less or more of the buildings that will eventually be demolished and how many buildings will be demolished? That is a question that concerns us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u296	Good. There are no other questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u298	You will answer, Minister, just ask whether there are other Members who want to ask you questions in order to answer a whole question. There's no one else. You have the floor for two minutes to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u299	Yes, sir. I'm gonna get in the easiest, and then I'm gonna go to politics a little bit. Mr. Colleague, your question is a peculiar one. Obviously, you did not have the time to read the amendment. Paragraph 3b, I read the judgment: ‘After submission of the documents referred to below under 3c and carried out by and at the expense of the buyer or guarantor, as defined in the contract for the sale of shares, etc. The costs of demolition are therefore borne by the buyer or guarantor, i.e. the ‘LAMDA’ company. It is not done by the company ‘ELLENIC S.A.’. Don't waste time. We talked about it last time. All demolition costs shall be borne by the company ‘LAMDA’. It is the beginning of the Greek project. In any case, in order to start this work, the buildings that do not need to be dismantled should first be demolished. There was no other way to do the work. Whatever bureaucratic way we can find, the first part of the work is the demolition of the arbitrary buildings. The play begins, however sad it is. But because you've caused me a little bit, I'll tell you that, as you know, there's a search engine wise. It's called Google. I did a simple research and I read: Spirtzis for Greek: "In 2018 it will have been granted to the investor". This appropriation is Mr. Spirtzis was the responsible Minister of Government Tsipras, your colleague to the same government, who pledged to the Greek Parliament that the transfer will take place in 2018 to the investor and the project will have begun. I'm saying that because you had the intelligence to tell me about a week, which I've never said. All I said was that it would be by the end of the year or at the latest, beginning of 2020. Indeed, we did not achieve the 'March 2020', i.e. January, and the June project will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u300	Demolitions are not the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u301	I guess you know that in between...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u302	Demolitions are not the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u303	Please don't record anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u304	You know that in the meantime, we had a court dispute between two major companies, and I don't suppose you'd come to the House to let any Papagelopoulos intervene in justice, because we wouldn't do that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u305	Is it Spirji's fault you didn't put the bulldozers on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u306	So, firstly, you know that the judicial dispute between the two companies was impossible to predict by the Greek Government. So this delayed the work. I imagine you'll have taken your ears for a COVID -19 and what happened between February and the next few months. If you've heard of it! So, to leave it easy and especially from you, I am sorry, Mr President, that I am very pleased to see you, because I have to do this to you, I cannot ask you the question. You know, Mr. Comrade, you were a Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u307	No, you will not, Minister, answer questions and do not ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u308	...for defending for the cement industries the alternative fuel, the RDF. And we all came and told you, 'bravo' then, 'you take such a brave position' and as a Member, you ask a question against what you have done as Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u309	All right, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u310	Well, Mr. Comrade, when you're Famellos and you've become so internationally ridiculous, be careful how you speak to Georgiadis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u311	Well, we're on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u313	What personal, Mr. Felmel? What did he bring you to? Did any of the things you said distort?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u314	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u315	Now listen. Did any of the things you said distort? Answer me. Did something go wrong? To what is the staff? Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u316	So Mr. Georgiadis used a disgraceful expression for my face in his answer, because he was unable to answer my question. And he went to another topic. Indeed, he mentioned the word'rezili', if I'm not mistaken and it's in the Minutes. If, therefore, it does not withdraw it, because this is the issue of staff, Mr President, I should like to make it quite clear what the matter is and whether it can be answered, because then there will be another predicament in this Chamber. And because we have to be quite specific, because this word is in the Minutes, Mr President, I will say: 'Mr Georgiadis, we have had the level, but also the knowledge and the political adequacy of making an agreement as the Ministry of the Environment with the Cement Union on another issue, which is not about the debate. Your Government, however, also in the case of TITANA in Thessaloniki does not apply this agreement and brings about an amendment to environmental conditions within the pandemic, without informing about the results of the factory's operation until now, as the voluntary agreement, which you are intercepting, says. We have also asked a written question in writing, Mr President, because we are not easily humiliated, as Mr Georgiadis is used to, and to the cameras. But I asked you something, Mr. Georgiadis. Do you admit that it was a mistake to write about the demolitions of the Greek river law and now you're modifying it? So, do you vote and vote? The Greek Parliament must know that, because the New Democracy is doing so against Coron.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u318	Please make this last speech, Mr Famele and Mr Minister. Warm request, do not make designations. And I think that the one you mentioned earlier should, I think, be deleted from the Minutes. And I think you should ask yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u319	The Greek people who are watching the debate may well understand whether I am right or wrong in that a Minister comes to the House, explains about an alternative fuel from a cement industry in Volos, is absolutely environmentally friendly and does not have any risk to public health, and gives a relevant ministerial decision to that effect, because a few months later as a Member signs a question, for the same alternative fuel, that he is harming the health of citizens in Thessaloniki. Unless the people's lungs are in Volos and other citizens' lungs in Thessaloniki!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u320	All right, we are not talking now, Minister, about the RDF, nor does the amendment contain anything about the RDF, its burning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u321	Well, yes, Mr President, I, because it has the nerve to tell me if the law on water was right, when you are Minister for a six-month period you have made such a spectacular turn for a few noodles in Thessaloniki, yes, Mr Famele, you are commonly remorse!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u323	Let's go to second. The law was excellent, and the law was excellent now, why? Because the circumstances have changed. I'll tell you now in Latin, which is also timely because of our bill. Pacta sunt servanda, rebus sic stantibus. I won't translate it. Go and learn Latin! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u324	The next speaker is Mr Boubas Konstantinos from the Greek Solution. Then Mr Kotsos from New Democracy follows and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u326	You don't have the floor, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u327	The Minister is so familiar that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Famelle, you don't record any of what you said. I've given the floor to our colleague, Mr. Famele. So, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am hearing about demolition materials by Mr Famello and Mr Georgiadis, and I hope that education does not have demolition material, because education does not want to demolition it! And as Mr. Georgiadis said about Latin, I will go to ancient Greek "every science separated from justice and the other virtue of panoramic, not wisdom seems". I think Plato is enclosing everything. Other education and education. It has nothing to do with the term education. I avoid the texts, because if I have texts, I cannot speak. I have this flaw. But we have to go to some articles: First of all, education is a term, which is why we have many uneducated people today, regardless of age, who are not taught in any book, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it. The education is groomed through the environment that we live to be better, so that our children can say "summs are not many carbs" to build a better future. The education taught by ancient Greece is from the caretaker. You know we should bear weight, because it should normally be called the Ministry of Education, it cannot be called the Ministry of Education. You know, as we live these days and talk about the virus and as I see doctors here, it's Mr. Bluchos, it's Mr. Varzopoulou, the virus has a capsule inside the eight elements of nucleic acid, which is its genetic material, surrounded by a lipid. Now, at this time the lipid is weak, so the virus is not transmitted. That's the way education is. If he has no lipid, he can't stand his feet. He must have reserves of energy, power and wisdom. Wisdom, however, is a distillery, is well known from virtue and discipline if wisdom is not of anthropocentric character, it is a panic, which is why we have untrained today who cannot translate what we call treatment. And above all, I would like to say, on the left, that we are not concerned about lawsuits and conduct. It is only there that we should, Mr Voutsi - because you say so - see on which criteria we will complicate characters. We cannot use Latin titles now, level them all. However, because you invoke what Evangelos Papanoutsos brought in 1931- I said before in the canteens - when he met a Minister of the then government of Constantine Karamanlis and increased in philosophical tuition, Sarados Kargakos, the well-known writer, in 1957 after the reforms of Papanoutsos, where also the late George Rallis took the municipality then and put it in municipality on the basis of the Papanoutsu reforms. Kargakos told a minister at the time: "To curse..." he said, "...the time I was born poor, because the tuition increased." And the Minister's answer you know what it was? "Don't worry about it when you weren't born rich."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u330	Where does that bear witness?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u331	You can understand that we do not want a two-and-three-speed education. I said it yesterday. Experimental school is strangled, shy. The effort share experimented and the attempted stress can bring real results. Listen, to talk to examples, I could go to the articles. When you talk, Minister, about skills, tell your children about ecological sensitivity, that our generation has destroyed the environment in the altar of profits - see Scouria and all desertification. When you talk to them about road behaviour, you will say that because of the fact that the services of the state - I expect from the New Democracy - we are giving diplomas without examinations to the elderly to carry their grandchildren. Or cars can't be replaced at the moment, it's polluting, because we don't give the guarantees because of the many taxes. When we talk to them about volunteering, we will unfortunately tell them that in this society that we are experiencing, volunteering is not rewarded. When we talk to them about entrepreneurship, we will tell them that this state with the law of passing has given so much and cleared up," he does not talk about a fair tax system. So we should tell the children the bad text. And when we talk about sexual discipline, which we as Greek Solution disagree on age, we will also talk to them about the commercialisation of the human body in our day or organ trade and generally sexual exploitation. There are a lot of things we need to discuss in education, ladies and gentlemen, but the government in question cannot plan for education. There must be a synthesis of views, a group spirit, a synergy, and a wisdom really emerges over time. As far as what the mistress of the Greeks can be, the mistress of the Greeks is one and it is the language, because it is the language that held us as a nation that kept us as a Greek, the "false", the "orgy", the "false", the "false" that we learned from the grandmother. So the Parthenon didn't keep us, but the tongue kept us. That is why we say that we invest in the Greek language, we invest in the ancient Greek language, because it is not a unknown language. A few years we are separated from our ancestors to finally find our pacemaker, to find our route as a people. As far as English is concerned, we can discuss it, but with a special education. As far as the evaluation is concerned, we cannot have an evaluation “Yiannis drinks, Yiannis buys”. You cannot start about changes in education, in "responsible" - I leave the term "childhood", they are completely different concepts - without changing the tools, i.e. the books, without making them more understandable, more real, more legible. You cannot today speak of the term "teacher" and not to upgrade philosophical, mathematical and especially the cornerstone of teaching schools. The teacher must be convinced, he must be contagious, he must be well aware of his body and body language, and he must know how to understand the children. So you upgrade livello - to put a Latin term as Mr Georgiadis spoke before about Latin - you raise the level. So you cannot talk today about the institution of the alternates and punish them for not accepting their position, they will go to islands where the rent is 500 euros and they will be forced to leave and punish them instead of giving them the guarantees to stay in a remote or tourist area that is extremely expensive. So you can't talk about training unless you give these right foundations to the teacher, the teacher and the child to love school. So we're talking about language. Give a weight to the mistress of the Greeks that is the language. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go on a little bit on university issues. You want to make foreign-language departments - I could talk a lot of time, I end, Mr President - and we have not created all these years of statistics to see how many foreigners come to Greece, from which countries are coming, what schools of their choice so that we can make a plan. So, are we talking about foreign language departments, while no government over time has made statistics? I was asking Mr. Loverdo for a conversation. There's no evidence. Do you understand that? We want to invest in foreign-language departments, but we do not know which countries foreigners will come from and what we are investing in. To close, I'll say there's no medicine in education. Drug only exists in the microbes, in the parasites, but not in the viruses. Education is often a virus, but there are also good viruses. Of the five thousand viruses, 10% are dangerous. So we're investing in a good virus, not a retrovirus, but we're protecting its genetic material. But know that as in viruses there is only a vaccine, we ask for the vaccine to create antigen-antibodies, so that we do not have a simple cell-host - to use the terminology of the time - to have an education. Open the universities. It's weird that universities don't work, while all the other stadiums are working. If we go to a teleconferencing test, the system's diagnosed. Either there's a feeder next door or if the student doesn't know the issues, he'll say the system fell. Open the universities now. The Greek violator hurts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u333	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would particularly like to stress a legislative improvement. We provide for the regulation that we have adopted in relation to school canteens and the possibility of extending rental contracts. We also provide for rules on candles within the premises of higher education institutions. I would like to believe that this regulation will benefit from total support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u335	Mr George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are discussing today a draft law which is extremely important for our educational system, which concerns the school, which concerns the space that forms personality, forged characters and, above all, the conditions of the next generation, the new generation, the future of our country. It would be a good job if we could have a consensus on the educational system that we want in our country, on the education that we want in our country. However, different political assessments, different approaches find appropriate ground to create different perceptions. But under no circumstances should this whole process be subject to micro-political and micro-participatory procedures. The dominant question is whether we are satisfied with the educational system we have in our country, if it is able to improve and what improvements we need to bring to our educational system to be sufficient, to be decent and, above all, to offer the best possible guarantees to the next generation. Here, indeed, this draft law comes to give a new breath by building tomorrow's school, the future school for Greece, a school that will escape individualism, because it is true that our educational system is based on individual performance, individual effort, individual study, and primarily individual performance. There are few procedures being cultivated and forged in collective effort, collective process and collective work. We want a school, an educational process that highlights and promotes grouping, cooperation and synergy, a school that will provide not sterile knowledge, but skills and supplies for the life of the next generation, a school that will become characterized by responsible and useful citizens, which will provide our citizens with supplies tomorrow and, in particular, supplies that are linked to a series of actions and manifestations of our lives such as volunteering, such as prevention from dependencies that are a scourge for the new generation, such as tolerance and acceptance of diversity, road safety, as in our country we have a series of accidents and accidents due mainly to the lack of road behaviour and road education, issues that have to do with the fourth industrial revolution that is before the pillars and on the substance of our society through robotic entrepreneurship issues, but have to do with our environmental protection, as well as with issues that have to do with our new use of this kind of protection. The school should protect the student from those who often work at his expense. We have a lot of bowling issues that concern modern school, we have the intra-school violence, which really do for some students unbearable environment in school and that is why it is really necessary that we make the school a hot nest for all, for all the children, for all the students. Most importantly, however, school should prepare citizens with confidence, with responsibility, with cooperation. I would like to refer to two concepts which have been abused and which have been demonised in favour of appropriateness, and I am referring to evaluation and excellence. From the time I traded in ELMEA, I was hearing that evaluation is required for everyone. The teachers wanted it, too, and the students wanted it, but by pretextual dilemmas we always avoided it. And it is true that a sufficient teacher, an adequate teacher, an adequate education space has no problem with evaluation whether this is internal or external. Because self-assessment is a question, but usually this self-assessment is limited to the self-criticism of each and every one. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So we need to have this three-dimensional evaluation that starts from programming, which is to be submitted and to see whether it is implemented and maintained over the path of the education process, the self-assessment of how each and every one of the actors in the education process self-assessssssssssss and self-improves. It is necessary, however, that external evaluation should also be carried out where, on objective criteria, the criteria that will really be relevant to the performance, with the effort, with the effort, with the capacity of the teacher and all the actors in the educational process, really promote this whole process. I would like to address two - three issues that I consider to be very important, Minister. One thing has to do with the deputys. And, indeed, the advantage of additional molecules is rightly introduced for those who go to the difficult areas, as is the penalty for those who do not go. Because - we lived it - in mountainous and inaccessible areas school in the summer period started after three months, after four months. Because teachers with pre-standard excuses did not go to school at which they had been selected and on the substance of the matter they had no sanction. What was the result? The children of mountainous, disadvantaged and poor regions have been deprived of the educational process for a long time. An additional element is the question of the transport of pupils to mountainous and inaccessible areas - I am referring again - where there is no public transport or often there is no public transport such as taxi. That is where I think we should also give citizens the opportunity, since there is no public transport, since there is no public public transport, so that children can take lessons not lost. The foreignlanguage departments of universities certainly move in the right direction. It is not possible for the country of culture, the country of education, the country of the great forms of the spirit of Plato, Aristotle, to be unable to transmit its lights all over the world today. And so we will allow students from around the globe and not just from the Mediterranean - I would say - to come and enjoy the Greek culture, the adequacy of the Greek universities and contribute to the extroversion of the universities, but also, above all, to contribute to the economy of our country. If I could describe your bill as something, Minister, it is governed by an absolute consequence of election speeches, pre-election statements and post-election political practice. And that honors you and indeed honors the Government of the Lord Mitsotakis. To conclude, I too would like to wish the children who soon start the full-hearted examinations, telling them that it is a test, but it is not everything in life. Be well, thank you very much. Good luck to children, and to parents, good patience! I invite all of you to vote in favour of the bill, because it really aims at a school of the future, a school of creativity, a school that will make useful and useful citizens for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u337	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, will now come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Since I'm invited to speak with a step freshly antiseptic, to say that a moment ago, before I came to the room, I was informed by my colleagues that we had a worrying case at a primary school in Xanthi. A teacher, rather an English teacher, who teaches in four different schools in the region, reportedly found himself positive on the coronary after a test he performed in a private lab in Xanthi on Tuesday afternoon. They close for ten days five primary schools and enter quarantine eighty teachers. I don't say that with any intention of pulling the finger or wailing it and saying that we were talking about it. This is where we are dealing together, indeed, with a case that is unprecedented and difficult. And I share many of the views that have been put forward - and I will say them in my speech - regarding the importance and value of living in education and the socialisation of children and combating inequalities in the learning process. However, Minister, since you are in the Chamber, I cannot repeat our sense - we have tabled it in good time - that, in particular for the primary schools, which have actually opened for ten days of learning, this has been and remains an inappropriate risk. This haste to return to a polite regularity - it is not normality what we are living with, it is a new reality with which we all have to live together - I hope you have realised that it has led you to an improper risk, especially with regard to primary schools, where you cannot say that the ten-day courses would deal with the real problem of changing the way of teaching from March to today. Let me, too, and all of us, of course, hope that this is an isolated incident and that we do not have any continuity in other cases. I now come to my main position and you will allow me before I speak of the bill to say something. I heard the Prime Minister today. It is not that I smuggle parliamentary procedures. I'm the last guy to do that. I usually pursue these processes and the private controversy with Mr. Mitsotakis. I will have the opportunity to do this tomorrow in the timely question I have tabled. I had a planned misdemeanor, and that's why I wasn't here. But Mr Mitsotakis also started his speech - and I would like to say a few words - on the agreement to delimit the exclusive economic zone with Italy, which was signed yesterday. There is no doubt at all that this agreement is based on compromises - like any agreement - both in relation to the rate of influence of our islands and in relation to the granting of fishing rights to Italy. However, if we had a second thought for these compromises, and we did not make these compromises two years ago, today I believe that these compromises can be accepted and this agreement is a positive agreement, but provided that it becomes part of a more comprehensive national strategy. And why two years ago did we not dare these compromises by being in the government and today accept them by being in the opposition? Not only because we, two years ago, had a opposition that had nothing to do with what today and usually - I would say - had the progressive party deposited to the public. A opposition to criticism, but also to a contribution to the formation of a national line. That wasn't the main reason. I wish that one tenth of the positive attitude we have in national matters today was to have you, at that time, who, in the Prespecies Agreement, had come to the tiles! Today you've made her a flag. But when we opened channels for communication with Turkey, you were on the tiles! Unfortunately, today there is no channel of communication. But also in the talks we held with Albania on the exclusive economic zone. I remember then that Mr Koumoutsakos was on the tiles, although he was more reasonable than others. That's not why. The main reason we did not attempt at that was that today we are in the need as a country to have a national strategy towards a proclaimed strategy on Turkey's part. I am thinking in particular of the Turkish pact, in this illegal agreement between Turkey and Libya, a part, in any case, of Libya because it is in conflict. This illegal agreement forces us to have a strategy. I therefore consider it a positive step yesterday and offer simple support without misery, but provided that it becomes part of a single national strategy. Firstly, this agreement should be combined with the intensification of efforts for an exclusive economic zone agreement with Egypt in order to break this illegal Turkish- Libyan memorandum. Secondly, it should be combined with the extension of the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, in order to clearly give the message that Greece is starting to exercise its sovereign right to the Ionian Sea today that we have this agreement on the exclusive economic zone with Italy and tomorrow and Crete. It's our inalienable right. I do not want to mention today's sad events and the IRISI project open to Libya, where the European Union once again showed its weakness. The question is what the Greek Government's attitude is, apart from having statements of sympathy at the summits. I don't want to expand anymore. The Prime Minister is not here to exchange thoughts on these issues. I believe and repeat that it is a national deficit that there is no dialogue, either publicly or at the Council level of the Political Heads of State or privately, with all the leaders, Heads of the Anti-Population Parties, and much more - and with us who have handled critical issues for four and a half years. All I have to testify is that this dialogue and information are necessary and that SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance will be here firmly as a patriotic responsibility force to demand that Greece return to a serious strategy for the country. So we'll go especially on in the days they come. They've been critical days. We're all worried. And the average citizen has it. I'm coming to the bill now. It is a pretext, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that there are serious differences in education between us. Most of all, however, there is a substantial difference between us in the way we see, in the way we debate and put these issues in the public debate. This difference is above and beyond the views of a citizen placed on the left, on the right or on the centre. Especially in the field of education, if we do not put this dispute at the heart of the debate, I believe that the citizens will be watching a confrontation that will fantasize them completely barren. I would like to explain that you have been trying diligently all this time to cultivate a platinum picture of modernisation, that you have a project that is supposedly modernising education. That you are supposedly trying beyond and outside your ideological perspective to proceed to changes defined by what experts, technocrats and international experience suggest. Those who disagree vertically with these changes are at best anachronists, at worst absurd. Apart from the fact that the return to the conduct of the world at the "experimental center" school and the multiplier teaching rooms only is not, there is a great contradiction in your account and your argument that you have been following the instructions of some specialists and technocrats. What is the expert's opinion? You have tabled a bill in the middle of a pandemic, obviously to prevent reactions, but the vast majority of education providers disagree with this bill. Not all of them are SYRIZA. You have gathered nearly fifteen thousand comments in public consultation by teachers, parents and even students. Did you take them into consideration? You obviously ignored them. The formal associations of teachers and parents raised very serious objections. Did you take them into consideration? You obviously ignored them. The Scientific Service of the Parliament has expressed serious concerns about a series of arrangements. Did you take it into consideration? You ignored her. Who were the only ones who agreed to this bill? Private school owners and care owners. Does that mean anything to you? He tells us a lot. So experts, whose opinion is of major importance, are in any case only those whose view is directly linked to the increase of their own profits, in your view. I come to your second favorite argument. You are constantly telling us that you do not have ideological strife - and that you are proposing things which are, to some extent, self-evident. I would like here today to say to you a few specific things that would be found in agreement with the average citizen who is following us. Is it self-evident that kindergartens and primary schools should operate with the lowest possible number of pupils, both for educational and health reasons, especially in the day of the pandemic? It is. What are you guys doing? Increase the limit from twenty - two to twenty - five students per class. Is it self-evident that in 2020 the conduct of a student should not have any place in his or her office? We think it is. What are you guys doing? You suggest the reinstatement of the conduct in the dismissal. Is it self-evident that adolescents should not be "nursing" under pressure from ongoing tests that have an impact on stress and depressive emotions? Especially in a country where, according to the latest data from the University of Psychiatric Health Research Institute, this applies to one in three adolescents up to 15 years old. So is that self-evident? We say it is. What are you guys doing? You're raising the class courses in high school from four to seven. Is it self-evident that the educational system should prevent a student leak? It is. What are you guys doing? Restore the unsuccessful topic bank, which blew the failure in the high school exams from 4% to 23%, and led to a large increase in the student leak. So, what are the self-evidents? With the training community experts, you're not. With the parents, you're not. With the students, you're not. With basic common sense, you're not. So, on what basis are we talking today? Behind this picture of so-called modernization and supposedly mature and self-evident reforms, we believe that there is an anachronistic conception of education, deeply conservative, that revolves around the concept of starvation. A similar anachronistic concept is also hidden for the administration of education, which is based on inspection and, of course, a failed more than - especially after the pandemic - outdated ideology for privatising public education, based on neoliberalism. I would venture to say that your plan for education is a mixture of outdated elitism and conservatism. Legislate about education with your mind in the schools pockets and in the bolt of old gymnastics. But when we legislate here, there is always a group, a social category of our fellow citizens that will be directly affected. And here, I believe you cannot ignore those who directly affect this bill and I am referring to the young people and young people of our country, a country whose demographic problem remains acute, a country that has seen thousands of young people and young people leaving abroad in recent years. So, what is your message to the new generation? What is the message for young people and young people? The message is "Start in elementary school on each other and what you understand, do you understand?" The message is "similarize teleteaching as an educational process"? "Take more exams in high school to shape, become better"? The message is "Look at beinghaved, quiet and worldly, why would it be written in the dismissal"? What's the message to young people? A few weeks ago, we were amazed at our TV screens police, mates, being beaten up by young children in the squares of Athens and Thessaloniki, people's districts, while your own executives in other squares, more central, were inaugurated. What was the message? And a few months ago we saw the Ministry of Citizen Protection send the police to cinemas, some young people who went to see the movie "Joker", which was suitable for over eighteen years. You know these are for laughter, but at the same time they are also for crying, because these in our view are not accidents, but they reflect no modernistic, but deeply neo-conservative and outdated conception of your struggles and the needs of the new generation of this place. A concept that goes through your bill, because neither creative thinking nor questioning nor the ambition of young people in a closed elite shape you have made in your mind. For you, the process of knowledge must be, as in all your worldviews, a constant state of competition, in which there are always winners and losers, always successful and failed. But instead of saying it raw, cynical, just as you think about it, you try to dress it up with words and concepts that their real substance has completely different meaning, such as the famous now excellence. You will allow me to tell you that the concept of excellence as soon as you have come out of the government has humiliated it, as you have been appointed by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, the head of the National Intelligence Service, a man without a degree. And when you discovered, and we pointed out that this is not the law, the worse for the law, you change the law! By the way, I'm still waiting for him to come visit me and let me know. You transfer to Mr. Mitsotakis that I have no issue with people who have no degree, I will be kind to him, he performs a crucial role. Just the same thing as the State Secretary for the Dispersion, Mr Diadiaris. And he without a degree and a double the force, as he tried to hide it. He had at least the emotiveness to resign. And yesterday, third case in the series, the Secretary-General of Tourism came out on his own and admitted that he had no diploma in order to prevent the application for documents submitted by the parliament of SYRIZA. So this is your attachment to a fake excellence. And I do wonder - Mr Mitsotakis is not here, but I am sure he is listening and watching - whether he will keep Mr Luli in his place. If he keeps him, it's good that he doesn't come back here to move us to excellence. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For four years you have bombed us with lies, with disinformation campaigns, with stereotypes, to convince public opinion that we are supposedly the ones who fight excellence and seek, as you say, the equation down. But at the same time that you - and you - defended excellence, we with a specific plan, which took away the examination burdens and strengthened real knowledge were working for the essence of excellence and knowledge in education. In the four years 2015-2019, therefore, the excellent students of the country’s high school and high school increased by forty thousand and reached eighty - two thousand. One out of four students was absolved, according to the evidence of the Ministry of Education. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you think this happened at random? Or are these supposedly excellent, and are the real masters only those who will be able to survive the struggle for survival, which you vision of for the future school you seek? To say otherwise, more simply, our difference is not that we don't want good schools while you want to. Our difference is that we envision an educational system, where all schools will provide a high level of knowledge. All schools. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Will you tell me that's possible? We say it's possible if we try. With underfunding, with empty organic positions, with thousands of substitutes, more than Europe, and with day-to-day teachers, no, it's not. But by making public education a priority, giving teachers support and trust, by reducing the number of students per class, by investing in an education that is essentially deepening knowledge and not providing skills, by investing in a school, not an exam centre and a trainee of schools, but in a pillar of knowledge, we believe that it is possible. We have also taken very important steps, even though we have been in difficult financial surveillance conditions. I would remind you of just one thing: when schools opened up to Mr Samaras' governments, with how many gaps until December, when they went to schools and how a class came in, it became a job and we were at least able to do things. I'll remind you more along the way. It is therefore possible to say. It is possible to bring out excellent students from both Grava and Treepotamos and Lassithi Plateau and the villages of Evros. We want to have real opportunities for all young people and young people in this country, regardless of social location and postal code, regardless of where they live. But perhaps these for you are fine letters. All right, it's fine letters, but because I've watched Mr. Mitsotakis, it's too much to pretend that you care about the children of popular classes - my own - who, when they don't become coolers from Peristeri, might even go to some standard school with tests. You want to remember what you guys did with professional high school, and what did we do? Yesterday it was only five years since the day that it was published in FEK - with the signature of the then Deputy Minister of State, Tasos Kourakis - the reintroduction to education of the two thousand seven hundred teachers of the PESA who were found available for dismissal in 2013 with the Minister at the time, Mr Arvanitopoulos and Mr Mitsotakis Minister for Administrative Reform to the Government of Samaras. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Instead, with you, we upgraded the PSAs, giving again access to technical training for thousands of students, including those of older people who are in the midst. You have not just changed your mind, but you have now brought a provision so that those who are above seventeen may not be allowed to attend. You removed it, of course, fortunately, under the outcry created. But you know what? And just when you thought of this and thought of a country where, according to the 2014 statistics - if I am not mistaken - one out of four citizens, unfortunately, from twenty to forty years has not finished high school, and only you thought of bringing an amendment prohibiting those who are more than seventeen to go to professional high school, it shows your logic and how truly dangerous and extremely unlikely this is the logic of the real needs of public education in our country. We have therefore upgraded the PSAs and launched the resolution of the professional rights of graduates of the previous TEIs and founded the National Training Centre for Educational Education, which you are abolishing. And you tell us that it hurts you very much the question of the evaluation of teachers and you are already accusing the educational community that it does not want the evaluation. I, Minister, met last week and with the board of directors of the ILO and with the Board of Directors of OLEME and, as you know, they are not all SYRIZA there, there are some who belong to the New Democracy Party, to all parties. They are, their opinions are made by people. But I want to tell you this, and I'm telling you this because I'm glad I found out. What I found - we had a detailed debate - what I understood is that no one refuses the evaluation. What they do not want is the punishing assessment established by Mr Mitsotakis as Minister for Administrative Reform at the time, which he said on cameras - in any case, there is television footage - that they are in favour of the redundancies of teachers because we had to be fair to redundancies and all teachers were fired. That's what he said then. They do not want those who are made redundant, they do not want the inspector to return, but what I understand is that they do not deny evaluation with a view to the development of the level of knowledge provided and, indeed, they have specific proposals. Many teachers, in fact, embraced the Regional Educational Planning Centres that we set up, their interdisciplinary establishment, the self-assessment of the educational unit, and the evaluation of about twenty-thousand executives on the basis of rules and pedagogical and administrative criteria. I come to two - three issues, and I will try to be as brief as possible. You have made these days a flag and you and some media have put forward the concerns that have been put forward by representatives of our parliamentary group, the same that, I am sure, the scientific and pedagogical community is sharing on the teaching of English in kindergartens. And here I want to clarify a few issues so that this specula can not be done. First of all, I would like to remind you who established the teaching of English from the first grade of primary school. The government of SYRIZA in the 1st grade, main late defenders of language learning. So do not twist our positions. We do not disagree with language learning in small ages. However, we respect the scientific community that has another perception of the role of kindergartens and their needs in learning process. And it is the majority of the scientific community and the educational community contrary to the schooling of preschool education, as according to the specialists - to refer to experts who so much to the pandemic, but, at best, are talking about specialists - it is another role in the cognitive and social education of kindergartens and kindergartens and the role of primary school. Otherwise, we'd have eight grades in elementary school, and we wouldn't have separate preschool education. So let's not twist. To engage in dialogue, to exchange views, but not to distort. And since we are talking about foreign languages, among many regulations, which decouple in your bill, Minister, day-to-day life in universities, you are introducing - you say - foreign-language curricula which will lead to university degrees equal to the other degrees. Sadly, the second ones come into that, too, sweaty. We were the ones who established them and the first one will work as of September at the Athens School of Philosophy. By establishing these programmes, however, why did I hear Mr Mitsotakis say "will you disagree with foreign students coming to our country and paying tuition fees?" Obviously, we won't argue. We did, but by listening to the lawyers too, we tried to secure ourselves from danger. We have taken every measure to ensure that these programmes do not undermine either the public and free nature of higher education or create a multi-speed university. Because lawyers say that if we approve of citizens of the European Union, these foreign students, very easily - because Union law provides for it - Greek students, Greek citizens, who, as we know, are citizens of the European Union, would have the same rights as everyone else and could apply for registration. And, therefore, there would be Greek citizens, Greek students who would pay tuition fees and get diplomas from foreign languages and other Greek citizens, Greek students, who would not have the financial capacity to pay tuition fees, would not have received the diplomas. This - don't do that you don't understand - is a violation of Article 16 of the Constitution. And if you do not understand it, it's the same Scientific Service of the House to remind you of it. And you still insist and shake the finger, "Who will refuse foreign students to study in Greece?" But that's what we're talking about? You also repeat - and I come to another subject - the huge innovation of telematics - for reasons of time I will not deal with, let me speak - with the little arrogant attitude you have had on cameras. But you got it back. I'm not going to open this. I would, however, like to make an absolute contribution to presenting an opinion on telematics. It is a very important parameter, there is no doubt about the strengthening of teaching work. However, it cannot replace the teacher's role as a whole, especially the role of the school as an environment for the socialisation of the child. I say this because I as a parent experience it, as tens of thousands of our fellow citizens these days. It is not a positive experience to celebrate, despite the truly commendable effort of teachers. It is an emergency experience, an emergency procedure, but not a process that must be copied and permanent. It's huge, especially for younger students. There are very great difficulties that these days face many families, especially those who both work, so that they can respond to this process. I read a survey from the University of Ioannina that nine out of ten teachers believe that tele-education is being reproduced and social inequalities are being strengthened. Why? Because they discovered these days that a large part of their students' families could not respond, either because they had no computer - be careful - or because they did not have access to a fast internet, because they did not have the right equipment, or because they did not have the necessary skills. And it is, I assure you, a great deal of concern for the educational community and parents that this process of rotation one day at school and the other at a distance can be implemented and indeed on a permanent basis from September. So let us not triumph for things that are complex and difficult in the daily lives of our fellow citizens. I think you are generally characterized as a government by a rush to capitalise on what is on your way, without giving the necessary basis to the parameters. But that's going to turn you sometime, boomerang. To close with an issue that is very important to us, because it is a matter of principle. We were the only government to recruit permanent staff in the critical areas and in education and health. One of our main priorities was to strengthen special treatment with permanent recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers. You have received these already under way recruitments, you have delayed them almost a year, as you are delaying our Government's decision on permanent appointments of ten thousand five hundred teachers in primary and secondary education. It's not enough that you were late, you tried to do it a communication game by announcing the tables while the bill in the House is being discussed, you went one step further. Not only did you try to fruit this special education support action, but you said, Minister, in this Chamber that we voted against it already. We have voted against recruitment that we and we have launched. I believe there is no cheaper opposition to opposition. And I invite you to show basic seriousness. You never showed her as an opposition. At least as a government show some seriousness. As long as you're in the government headquarters, not as cheap a policy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sincerely hope that we have a basis for discussion today. Because, unlike others, I believe that the issues of education are also national issues. It is of great national importance. I fear, however, that this bill is a conservative and undisciplined shift that takes us back and not forward. Instead of innovating, as it spreads, the New Democracy Government simply legislates by delegating what progressive legislative work is in the past and by reintroducing the basic principles of its failed previous term under Mr Samaras. For the New Democracy education is a arena of private interests and insurmountable competition, a depository of atomicism and a process of exhaustive physical and mental pressure in every news and news. For us, for SYRIZA, for the Progressive Alliance, for the progressive forces of the country, education is the vehicle of our collective development. It is the biggest investment in society in its own future. They are the foundations that can give every new and new state an interest in collective progress and prosperity. It is a public asset, to close with it, common to every citizen, regardless of origin, social status and place of residence, for every citizen born and living in Greece of the 21st century. This good always in this place was claimed and protected with struggles. Other governments, who felt themselves much stronger than you in the delusion today, were surprised by the social struggles caused by the new generation and by the educational community. We will, therefore, strengthen these struggles to protect this good in every way, to protect it from a conservative government that is supposed to be looking towards the future, but in the end, its ideas and perceptions are very afraid that we are being referred at high speed to long times in the far-sighted 1950s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u339	Mrs Kerameou, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall reply thoroughly to what the President has said. First of all, regarding the primary school case in Xanthi. I would remind you that the representatives of Officerial Response called 'necessary risk' the opening of schools, 'health bomb', 'planned normality'. In spite of the unanimous opinion - and I stress unanimously - the experts' suggestion. I stress this because these are the experts who have led us in an excellent way so far to deal with a very difficult crisis. The experts, then, unanimously said open the schools. And not just that. If schools did not open up, primary children, for example, would stay out of structure for six months, with what this means in development, in learning development, in spiritual development, in social and emotional development for children. We followed the experts' instructions. They are also worth congratulating the teachers, the training staff who have exemplarily implemented the protection and prevention measures. Society embraced this initiative. The attendance in elementary school was over 80%. After a month of reopening - because tomorrow we are closing down a month of school reopening - over fourteen thousand school units, yes, there was a case. In fourteen thousand school units there was a case! What were we supposed to do? Shouldn't we open the schools? To deprive our children of their natural space that is no longer from school? Point two. Mr. Tsipras said we brought bills in the middle of a pandemic. I think he was unwitting, however, to agree on how extensive the consultation was. He said for fifteen thousand comments in electronic consultation. It is practical evidence that extensive consultation has taken place. Third point. Mr. Tsipras said, I noted, that we are increasing the limit from twenty-two to twenty-five children per class. Wrong! In government SYRIZA the number of students per class was in the second grade twenty-five, in the third grade, twenty-five, in the fourth grade, twenty-fifth grade, in the fifth grade, twenty-fifth grade, in the sixth grade, twenty-fifth grade. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u341	The first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u342	So what is foreseen? The same number is provided for in all classes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u343	In the first class, how many were there? You're telling the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u344	Point 4. Mr. Tsipras said the conduct...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u345	In the first class, it was twenty-two and you raise it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Philly, I have not interrupted you. I respect you and respect you whenever you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u347	You don't respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u348	He didn't refer to the first one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u349	The President said that the conduct should not have any place in the discharge. I think the Prime Minister was clear today. For us a school mission is not just the sterile transmission of knowledge. The school's mission is to teach children how to behave in a particular social environment, how they have rights, have obligations. Do you know that in neighbouring Italy if no one has '6' in '10' in the conduct does not pass to the next class? We are therefore saying that it is a regulation which, along with many other regulations, such as the new themes of respect for diversity, respect for mutual respect, the rules on the fight against school bullying, all contribute to a healthier school environment and to learning, as required by Article 16.2 of the Constitution, how to form free and responsible citizens. Because that's in Article 16.2 of the Constitution. Fifth point. Mr. Tsipras said we made the school an examination centre. Let me remind you that the SYRIZA government has abolished its school examinations, the average conditions have decreased, the free access to universities has been institutionalized. Everybody equals. But equals how? Down. The beginning of a minor effort, which goes through every initiative of Officerial Response! Bank of themes. Mr. Tsipras said that the failure of the students in high school - when the theme bank had been implemented - was 24%. Here, Mr Philly, you should say that the statement was not complete. Why wasn't he full? Because it was not specifically mentioned that it was the first year in which new promotional and dismissal conditions were applied. For the first time, "10" was applied to each lesson and "8" to each lesson. That was why it led to an increase in the failure of some students. English in kindergarten. I think that the matter has been exhausted. The trend is international for familiarization with the second language from the three years. In fact, the trend is growing. At first there were only three countries. There are now fourteen European countries in which there has been a second language familiarity since the age of three and over. He said Mr Tsipras - he suddenly showed an interest - in vocational education and training. I'll talk to evidence. Is such a statement, this late interest, when public IEK instructors were unpaid to a SYRIZA government for a whole year, when public IEK graduates had the responsibility of depriving SYRIZA of their right to participate in the EOPI certification examinations, when it was planned for IEKs to operate only with certified instructors from 1 September, without having arranged for the certification, thus making it difficult for them to function - who? - of public IEK! Recruitment. I mentioned it the other day. Twenty thousand recruits were said, Mr. Friend. Mr. Vernardakis - he was here earlier - said January 2017 "The next week a competition for teachers is opened". None of this happened. The evidence speaks for itself. No appointments to education. Mr. Tsipras asked what the message to the new generation is. We have a clear message as a government. This message is for a school that is more substantial, more qualitative, more creative, more open, higher expectations and demands. A school that meets the need for a more comprehensive education, for more creative management and use of knowledge. A school of vigilance. We assemble that as a government. Tenth point. Mr Tsipras spoke of foreign-language undergraduate programmes and said, 'Second you come to this and sweaty'. I would remind you that SYRIZA's government has entered a cut. The International University has been required to cooperate on each foreign language programme. In other words, each university cannot autonomously establish a foreign-language undergraduate. Point 2: The programme referred to by Mr Tsipras was rejected by the government. Once the NRP came in, it asked for the project to be set up. Oh, no. Why? The expensive tuition fees. For who? For strangers. In other words, the SYRIZA government came and said: “Slow the tuition to pay less revenue - who? - the foreigners in public universities. We say that every institution can set up foreign-language programmes, without the Minister's approval. Because we're not stuck either in chairs or in power. We give freedom and autonomy to universities, just as we promised. I'm closing up with this. I would like to ask frankly: does SYRIZA disagree with the introduction of sexual education to schools? Does he disagree with the subject of mutual respect and diversity? Does it disagree with the widening of valuation methods at school, with more research work, for example? Does she disagree with the arrangements to combat school bullying? Does he disagree with the quicker use of pre-services and qualifications for teachers? Does he disagree with the reward of our children who are divulging in international student Olympians? I want to think I don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u350	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u351	Wait a minute, Mr. Levane. Mr. Villard has asked for the floor. Because your Chief has spoken, you are entitled to speak, but in half an hour. Are you all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, I will not speak. Just an answer to the Chief of Antipopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u353	And to clarify something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u354	Wait a minute. Madam Minister, I wanted to ask you something before Mr Lebanese took the floor for a few minutes. It won't be a speech. Mr. Villardo, would you mind waiting for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u355	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u356	Thank you. Madam Minister, are you ready to tell us from the Members' amendments tabled, which are accepted or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u357	If it's easy, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u358	I'd love to. Mr. Levane, you have the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I say that - we have said so many times in this Chamber - we do not agree with the press. But we honour the signing of Greece, we honour the signature of the previous government, and we continue in this way to do so. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With regard to the part of the EEZ, it was indeed a good thing that Mr Tsipras and his interview with Kathimerini on Sunday, if I am not mistaken. And we respect that, we welcome it. This is how we need to function in our national issues, with harmony and with seriousness. It called for a broader strategy on the part of the government and for this agreement to be incorporated yesterday's EEZ with Italy into this national strategy. But there's this national strategy. It is the strategy of multilateral foreign policy that looks throughout the Mediterranean. That is exactly what this EEZ agreement is about. Requested accelerating the agreement with Egypt. Accept this request. But you know - and I imagine he also knows - that Mr Deedias has already announced that he will be there next week, precisely for that reason. He also asked for an extension to twelve miles. I understand the rhetoric of this argument. You know that it is our national right and you know - you have also been through the headquarters of the government - that we are conducting politics in the light of our national interest and we are doing what we must at all times. We welcome Mr Tsipras to the patriotic line that we are celebrating. I use the 'patriots' because he said so too. I think that in this multi-dimensional foreign policy we all defend our national interests and respect international law. I want to make a brief comparison for the two speeches. Let me say that Mr. Tsipras' position was lifeless, wooden, unwitting, without vision. It was a speech that mainly read it. He tried to hide for everything that could not be done - I'm not saying there was no good faith - during your governance in education, under the pretext of the crisis. Contrary to Mr Tsipras' reference to education, which was an overall approach of yesterday, I think - and I think we have all heard, I also wish a large part of the Greek people - that the Prime Minister's position was totally in the opposite direction. It was a speech coming from tomorrow, coming from the future. You also noticed that his entire speech was from boobs, which means that he shows not just knowledge, but very sensitive to the issues of education, as of course the head of the Ministry of Education. But it also shows a Prime Minister, unlike Mr Tsipras, who is not just close to the issues of education, but knows them better than the ordinary Member. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This difference is that not only appears in this bill, which, as he has said, Mrs Keramea has said, is a step forward in our overall strategy. This difference, this commitment by Mr Mitsotakis to the issues of education is the one that fills with hope and with the young people of our country. As far as the bill is concerned, I will not say anything because it covered everything with great adequacy and absolute detail, Mrs. Keramea. However, I was also impressed - and I cannot say it - by the start of Mr Tsipras' speech that stood on this case in Xanthi as if he were happy about it. I can't believe it. But, as the Minister said, fourteen thousand schools worked for these children. Aren't you glad they found their normality, their rhythm? They're back in the cobbleds. I think it was an unfortunate placement. It has also asked a question and I am closing with it, and I thank you, Mr President, for the plan that the New Democracy has, which the government has for education. He described it as a product of obsolete preservatives and elitism and asked us what is the message to the new Greeks and the new Greeks. The message, therefore, has taken two days and many days before the committee and about two years now when we are discussing education since the announcement of our programme. It is the extroversion of the Greek school, the opening to foreign languages, the dignity, the rewarding of the effort, the end of the equation downwards, the upgrading of the public school, the evaluation everywhere, the strengthening of progress, excellence with investment in the standards and experimental public schools, the influx of foreign students and knowledge, and not the outflow of Greek students abroad, the Brain gain and not the Brain Drain. This is our message coming from the future and we very much regret that you cannot follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u360	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, Mr Tsipras described SYRIZA as a patriotic power of responsibility. Interesting. I'd rather not comment on it. The facts of his administration speak for themselves. That's the message for us. The fact that Greece now has a problem of education is obvious, not just from the bill, which we referred to yesterday. As an economist, of course, I see things from another perspective, more practically, such as the fact that young people learn, are taught better than words. What, then, can they learn from a party that launched in Greece the corrupt party client state, while leading their homeland, without asking anyone, to the establishment of the IMF? What should they learn from the other one that excommunicated it with its incredible waste and convicted it to the PSI, handing over its national sovereignty and subjugating everything? What should they learn from the third, who has not kept any of his promises, has closed the banks and reversed the referendum, not respecting the Constitution to a minimum? Finally, what can they learn from all three of the together that signed the third memorandum, the transfer of everything to the superstition with the FEK of August 2015 and all the others? Rhetorically questions, of course, while we do not need to mention any names. We all know. We will now continue with certain issues of topicality, but from the outset, stressing that the most important to our education is: firstly, the creation of vocational schools after high school. Secondly, diplomatic in high school, the fourth class, as well as the abolition of introductory examinations, as in other countries, in order to close the wound of schools. And thirdly, linking education to the real economy, so that the young Greeks can find jobs in their country commensurate with their studies and do not migrate massively abroad to survive, as has been the case in recent years with the deep recession that we have experienced and which has already returned. We recall here that, while the government had promised growth of 4%, the rate had already fallen to 1% in the last quarter of 2019 from 2.3% previously, as well as to 0.09% in the first quarter of 2020, without of course being due to the locking down of our economy, after it was only launched in mid-March. In Denmark in particular, it has launched an investigation into the proportionality of the measures taken for the pandemic, on the other hand, because its Prime Minister has decided to do so on its own, taking the Parliament's approval back. In Greece, of course, where even the MAGPs are unilaterally decided and implemented by the government, and they are retrospectively coming to the House for their preliminary debate and vote, there has been no need for any investigation, despite the fact that any disproportionate measures seem to cause enormous damage to our economy. We therefore believe that the conduct of a similar investigation with Denmark is necessary to at least find out which criteria were decided on both the locking and the other measures and whether legal proportionality has been respected. However, to use communications or otherwise scientists to avoid political responsibilities, as it sounds about the economy, with economists living in London or New York, advising our country by mail, is not the best especially in the painful conditions that the governments of the memorandums have caused in Greece at the direction of the Germans. In any case, it is insulting to the Greeks that they are not asking for absolutely anything, like a foolish mob, such as the country's entry into the Eurozone, its condemnation to the IMF, the signature of the criminal PSI - I stress, criminal - of the third destructive memorandum or the surrender of Macedonia's name, despite the flooding of Athens and Thessaloniki, as well as many other cities, expressing their opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u362	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u363	I have a lot to say, but I shall conclude, Mr President, as you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u364	Be well. Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. We are going back to the list of speakers. I calculate the remaining speakers twenty-eight the number, plus the parliamentary representatives who have not even spoken to the ministers, that we will go about 12 o'clock at night. If there is consensus from this House, eight minutes from the speaker, seven with a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u365	To be eight while it is. By 2 o'clock in the morning, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u366	Good. So we stay at eight. The House does not consent for seven with one tolerance to go to eight. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u367	All right, let's go like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u368	All right, all right. We'll put seven minutes and go to eight. Now Mrs Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u369	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to protest on a point of order because it is not possible for the time to be 8 o'clock at night and to have spoken only 15 Members. Next time I think you might have to make a better adjustment. It's not possible. We've been here since 9:00 a.m. There were timely questions and we were told that the debate would begin after the timely questions were closed. The debate is beginning at 12 noon, 8 o'clock, and only fifteen have spoken. I think that doesn't honor us. Before I enter the debate on the draft law, I would like to make a reference to the two hundred eighteen dead we honor today, the dead in Distomo. Nazi atrocity is not allowed to erase from our memory, not for reasons of history, but because the demand for innocents' justice is not just about the past but about the present. It's time now at last, after so much waiting, to enter the debate on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing a bill in plenary since yesterday, which has the title of a school upgrade rather than a name 'A school for a few'. "A school for a few" would normally have to bear as a title if the government decided to be honest by confessing its true intentions. Indeed, it is revealing that during quarantine, during a pandemic period, the Ministry of Education rather than drawing up a draft law that would help the educational community meet the new conditions, brings us a bill that serves completely other priorities. It's a bill that seeks to fly out of school procedure as many students become. The Minister admitted in her speech yesterday that school is an excellence mechanism for social mobility. What he did not say is that it is precisely for this reason that he is trying to force appropriate school conditions so that social mobility can be nullified so that children from the unfavourable economic and cultural strata can have the least chance of being educated in the public school. Just to limit any balancing role that education could play, the New Democracy creates two speed schools. On the one hand, we have the school models for students and students who support their family, so that they can start schooling from the sixth grade and continue them for the next six years. Or is the Minister ignoring that this is the truth? On the one hand, we have standard schools with intensified, uneducative and educational requirements, with careless infrastructures, with educators of increased qualifications and increased subordination, after introducing individual, punishing, opaque evaluation to monitor their discipline in the new normality. On the other hand, we have second-stage schools left to their fate, underfunded, without logistics, with vacancies of teachers and teachers that will be covered whenever the Ministry is able to travel around Greece by substituting teachers. Of course, for the public school to be even more repellent, the government is putting tests everywhere. In addition to the 12-year-old examinations for their introduction to standards, New Democracy increases the number of courses considered at the end of the year in high school and high school, without providing for any mechanism to strengthen pupils and especially the weaker ones. Basically, the policy of the Ministry is concentrating on the following: I am putting you under examination barriers, proliferation of the material being examined, a bank of issues. Go to the delusion to respond. "Your school success or failure is your individual responsibility." It's a phrase that has a lot to go through. What about collective responsibility? He knows the Ministry that the last time the theme bank was attempted, the re-tested percentage was launched at 24% in the first grade. She doesn't care. He's renounced all responsibility for the Opening Heart. The argument about eight, and about ten, we really don't understand it. "There is September" he answers. Let it go one summer to the misery of those who can. And there is no mention of children with disabilities, no mention of children with learning and educational difficulties, children who will find it harder to find out more about the new conditions, not because they do not have the ability to learn, but because the highly competitive new educational environment will leave them on the margin once again. And for the government to be sure the school won't be able to respond to its exam, it increases the number of students per class in the middle of a pandemic. A minimum level of students is established per department to disperse students and students in distant schools. It does not take a single measure for special supportive treatment, and of course it sends the recruitment of general education teachers once again to the bells. The government, ladies and gentlemen, is not interested in improving school performance. He doesn't even care about excellence. He's not interested in enriching the educational capital of our children and adolescents. The government is interested in multiplying school failure, disappointing pupils and parents in order to increase the school leak by sending customers to private training centres. And for the training she creates for this situation, she tries to blame the others. The responsibility for increased school failure lies with either the students who do not read, are inexperienced, and we will put them on a world conduct, or the teachers who are insufficient, and we will evaluate them through a mechanism that we will control both partyly and suffocatively and that we have not yet brought him, we are preparing him, we are setting him up. For now, let school units post their self-assessment on the Internet and create the framework for the introduction of the camera into the classroom so that we can sometime exercise full control and easy targeting of teachers. We put Latin as a universally tested lesson, because sociology scares the government, is a lesson that asks students to think about the reality they live in, and such thoughts are dangerous. Let us stay in the parrot of the 'dum spiro spiro', which will also be so useful in tomorrow's life. Ladies and gentlemen, children, adolescents in our schools need educational stimuli, which cannot be confined to and undermined by the stressful preparation of parallel examinations. If the school course is a series of exercises, with the footnote that they will or will not enter at the end of the year and will not achieve their goal, then we have achieved the complete cancellation of any educational process. We have abolished any relationship between teachers and students by turning it into examiners. We have drowned every critical thought, every debate, every question, every word of opinion, every concern. We have removed the time and place where the culture of the soul can take place within the Greek school. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, by turning our schools into permanent examination centres of stacked students who are helpless in the face of class cultural barriers, you are committing another great injustice this time at the expense of Greek society. Obviously that is not of interest to the neoliberal inspirations of this draft law. We know that and we also know that from other government bills. As the masks and smiles of excellence fall slowly, however, and these smiles are frozen, the fruits of your policy will be peeled off and sooner or later it will show what taste they taste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u371	Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the substance of the bill, I should like to point out that the Minister, the State Secretary and the State Secretary for Education, with responsibility, efficiency and sensitivity, have done everything they need to ensure that the public health of teachers, who have actually produced a titanic task and an effort to educate their children and families, such as, of course, the general population and, on the one hand, that the educational process, on the other hand, continues in the most appropriate way, by making use of all the opportunities available to modern technology. As to the substance of the draft legislation that is being passed today, it raises a dilemma: do we want a school that operates as a brake on the innate trend towards continuous improvement and progress and noble speech or a school that will inspire and enhance lasting self-improvement, while cultivating effective education and multi-faceted education, with a view to and integration into the labour market? We answer that we want the second one. So, does the bill serve this goal? Yes, he serves him, and I say it, because I support my judgment in personal and experiential experiences from the field of students and youth. This is because I have been in the common of my students since I was appointed Youth Counsellor of the Municipality of Thessaloniki for a number of years, President of the "Young Europeans Organized Capacities" organization and, of course, two children's mother. At the same time, as far as my parliamentary action is concerned, I am taking more excitement, because I happen to be the smallest Member of my group in the First and Second Thessaloniki, but also because I have made various contributions in the area of youth employment, young people and the fight against unemployment - and as a combat worker, who, as I said at the beginning - is also intended to integrate into the labour market. As far as individual provisions are concerned, it therefore establishes skills workshops. We distance ourselves from the sterile transmission of knowledge and signal the turn to a modern school, to a school that emphasises the culture of skills, mild skills and as the Prime Minister said here today, skills such as volunteering, ecological sensitivity, sexual education, skills in new technologies and robotics. Here I am going to raise the issue of English teaching in kindergartens. The Prime Minister was right to say today: 'Trust the parents as well'. I sign up to the Prime Minister's position as the mother of a child who I chose in kindergarten and did not have that opportunity to attend English class. However, because my entire environment is educational, it advised me to bring it closer to the English language, and that was what I did from three years until today. Do you know what results I saw now that she's in elementary school? Truly, it is amazing how he has been in contact with the English language. So what we do is really something that was elite or could be considered elitist for the few, which few could do at a private school. We come and bring it to the public school, and that is, in fact, an innovation. On the subject table, I think it is important because, firstly, it ensures that all the materials of all schools in the country are covered and, secondly, it allows for the evaluation of the progress of pupils through the export of data on an objective basis. I also consider it very important that the introduction of the "curriculum" should not be understood as a success for the philosopher, or a legal person, who does not have basic knowledge of mathematics, as vice versa does not mean a successful physicist, or a mathematician, who does not know basic things from Greek history. I think it is in this very right direction, because the previous logic was one-dimensional and one-dimensional. Also, although I am not a member of the committee, I have nevertheless read all the minutes of the committee and I am pleased to hear the Minister's question by Mrs Kefalidou, saying that there will be a whole bill on vocational training. It is very important and, indeed, it is in this very positive direction that the Ministry thinks. As regards the school advisor, for years I have been President of the organisation "New Europeans Organized," and I am proud to present to you that school bullying and cyber bullying are not present. It's been a long time. We did research when cyber bullying was in a very first-class situation in the school. In fact, the Police Electronic Crime Department, when Mr. Sfakianakis was chief, used the evidence of our own investigations to haunt how we should move. I therefore think it has taken too much, much more than we imagine, and we think, on the basis of the data and the investigations we have done for years, and it is necessary not only as a disguise but also in order to understand situations, because these are not easily understood. As far as standards and experimental schools are concerned, I will not say much. I only think that the Ministry could consider establishing a special category of draws both in the total grades and in the supplements for children of luxurious and third families. With regard to the translations, it is important to introduce the academic criterion, because it corrects three things: injustice, the fact that there were students of two speeds and the number of ponds and eternal students. However, because we also have a major demographic problem, and we must all fail to do so, I believe that at some point the Ministry will be able to examine whether to create a special category for children of polytexts and tritecs or to extend the social criteria to include much more than these categories. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as foreign-language curriculum is concerned, we want our country to show itself on the international academic map, as it deserves, to come foreign students, to develop healthy competition and, of course, to leave their money in our country, because the world is constantly modernising and there is also the concept of interdisciplinaryity, linked to the labour market. To set an example, a degree in chemistry and biology: He prepares students for careers in pharmaceutical, biotechnological, biochemical sciences and this is something that is very important and demanded. I would also like to say that, in fact, SYRIZA shares the programme that it needs to be done in other terms. But when he was able to implement it, no foreign language programme was implemented in his government. Finally, to sum up, Mr Tsipras said that this bill is a mixture of outdated elitism and conservativeism, and I wonder what modernist provisions he will do. Will he vote against them? Like, sex education in schools, respect for diversity, arrangements to combat school intimidation, the reward of our children who run the international student Olympics will vote against this? So I'm closing up, and I'm testifying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u372	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u373	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm sorry. I say that this bill sets out a programme for education from the bottom up and lays the solid foundations for its students today, its young people today will become tomorrow's citizens who aim to have morals and values, general and integrated education, multi-faceted education and an advantage in the absorption of the labour market. That's worth our kids, and that's the message of the bill that's going through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u374	The former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, asked for the floor. Mr President, would you like to speak now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u375	Now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u376	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I took office of the Minister for Education, I wanted to consult the most prominent in theory and deeds of our own educational system, including the historic teacher Alexis Diaras. He said to me: 'Just go to the fifth floor of the Ministry of Education' - then Metropolitan - 'and look at the plaques with the names of those ministers of education, but especially the duration of their terms'. The conclusion: Education ministers have a very short lifespan. I do not wish you to have this as an experience, Mrs Kerameus, but I am making a statement. I do not question the intentions of any minister who has passed through this ministry, we all consider it crucial for the culture, democracy and the well-being of the country. Unfortunately, any change, not only government but also the Minister of State, changes policies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are temporary, even more in the Ministry of Education. And discontinuity undermines serious, long-term planning in an area where the seed that is falling today wants constant care to yield fruit after twenty, thirty years. How are you dealing with this problem? Not enough is the good intentions, not the good ideas, nor your constant rhetoric for determination. Why are you confusing the image - I stress the image - of power, the so-called determination with efficiency. It takes time, research, consultation and wider consensus. The result of your own legislature will be quick but superficial changes with no prospect, which will easily be overthrown by the next Minister. Only if there are broad consensus so that everything is not changed according to the Minister can we have serious reform. I have heard a proposal for a intergroup committee, I have founded it myself many years ago, and then I have called on all parties to participate, as I did when I was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is where the Foreign Policy Council has worked, and despite any differences we are trying to reach agreement. I see it today in the Council of Europe, where Greece now has the Presidency and the Deputy Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis, and the head of our parliamentary delegation, Mrs Bakoyannis, make a good effort to consult, to establish a single line on our international and national issues. It is important that the agreement with Italy and, of course, contrary to the practice of Turkey which has chosen to ignore international law, impose an illegal agreement, exploiting the weakness of a civil state, while we show respect for international law, equal bargaining and compromises, and, of course, show good neighbourliness. I wish that this would be a prerequisite for us to resolve issues and other issues with Egypt, Albania and, of course, with Turkey itself. But I won't be tempted to talk about the outsides anymore, we'll have a special conversation from what I understand next week. At that time, however, the New Democracy had refused to participate. It seems to me that it does not have the political will today, not a formal but in-depth consultation. I shall mention an example of the country's problem and education. After repeated consultation and exhaustive dialogue, the law on universities with unprecedented consent is passed at PASOK government in 2009-2011. The New Democracy had voted for him. And to answer Mr Mitsotakis, then we made compromises, Mr Mitsotakis, for this consensus to be reached. However, as soon as the New Democracy came to the government, it was the first law that changed under the burden of customer commitments and to the satisfaction of interests and establishments. So the problem is not consistent with democratic and participatory logic. Of course, many have said that there are also serious ideological differences in education. I agree, education is not neutral. If we cannot agree to the detailed objectives of education, we can at least define what the problem is. So before we get to therapy, can we define the disease? Because we have very low indicators in various evaluations such as PISA. It has been evaluated repeatedly by external evaluators away from our parties. In 1995, I asked for the evaluation of our educational system by the OECD. It points out, of course, the need to finance education - and here I am referring here, with the reconstructing programme, it is necessary to have a serious investment in education and because of the programme that the European Union will theoretically decide and give us - but the OECD says that despite the existing money, these are not properly used and features are written: 'The school programme continues to come from the centre and teachers have no room for creative interpretation and development, but are still attached to readings from school books'. In 2011, the next OECD report says: "Greece remains one of the most comprehensively designed educational systems in Europe, depriving it of all flexibility, while sometimes they have progressed dynamically in decentralising their educational systems". The recent OECD report in 2017 on SYRIZA points out: ‘The educational system is highly centralised, with the central state exercising close control over each aspect’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u378	The clock just warns. You have as much time as you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. The consequences, ladies and gentlemen, of this centralization are not to breathe, to have oxygen, to drown learning, to train in the stormy pressures of a central bureaucracy. Our bill does not cure this alienation, strengthens administrativeism or english the so-called micromanagement. Today, the Minister of Education decides, together with the central bureaucracy, what will be the detailed programme at each school, at each level, decide on each book and each text to be read. At the TEIs which had a key role in contributing to regional development, the central administration decided on the detailed programme and thus had no bearing on the economic reality of the region. The central administration decides every condition for admission to higher education, decides how many students will learn, how many teachers will be, how many departments will go into each section, how many relocations will be. That is, the State decides the number of each profession every year. Think at a time when the data change rapidly every day, the professions are radically restructured, new ones are created: Biology and Informatics, Nursing and Engineering, Political Engineering and Finance. Or else, the large volume of legal material will be edited by computers with artificial intelligence faster and more effective than the lawyer. But we are fighting about where they will or will not become legal schools, instead of letting universities develop their own rapid initiatives for new modern items and for legal science. This system, ladies and gentlemen, only existed in the Soviet Union. And there, at least, they made some more serious design. But was this centralism also their condemnation? We're fighting about sociology class. The real dilemma is not Latin or sociology and I am a sociologist and a book in Sociology is taught with the following chapters: democracy, citizens and rights, European Union, immigration, globalisation, social media, identity, poverty and unemployment. Obviously, these objects are considered not serious. However, we do not think that in the digital age the question - a problem is less this particular lesson. The question is whether Sociology, Latin, Ancient Greek, is another burden of immobilization and examination for young people or if they cultivate the spark of curiosity, love for research and learning, critical thinking. Leaving young people from Greek high school due to dictatorship, I met abroad schoolmates who knew much more about our ancient tradition. Why? What were we afraid of? If we did teach the ancients, their philosophy, the theatrical works of Euripidis, Aristophanes, the "Athens State" of Aristotle, the dialogue of Athenians with the Miles of Thucydides, we would teach ideas of radical, subversive, that would make citizens critically thinking. Is that what we're afraid of, a truly democratic education? But history's lesson is unmarked and fearful. And this memorisation instead of critical thinking, as if we were to hide facts from young people, dilemmas, civils, bankruptcies, conflicts, successes and failures of our country, as so many remarkable modern historians say. What are we afraid of? What's more beautiful than the young man can read many books about our country's history? Self-awareness is a prerequisite for going forward as a nation and for the young person to be able to assess the multitude of information in the digital age. Again, what are we afraid of and what are we pursuing? We are talking about an educational system of confidence, but we ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, show no confidence in the educational community in the way we legislate. Why, ladies and gentlemen, have we encouraged the educational community from the creative initiative? This disease, of course, is not just our educational system. It is simply a heavier disease in this area. We are talking about 2020. Two hundred years of freedom. So let us remove the Ottoman concept of the operation of the Greek state, a concept that says: "The state is me and I am a citizen. When I serve you, in my eyes as a state I always see you as a suspect, and so I will control everything." In the field of education, this concept translates into over-regulation, as well as into syndicated and routine arrangements. For example, the provision you are bringing, by which you cancel the two terms of office of the electorate, as SYRIZA has unfortunately done. Why? Is that a matter of principle? No, Minister. You make this a matter of transaction, thanks to someone or others, like the party single ballot. Is this your reform example to the new generation, where young people raise the issue of dignity as central when deciding to emigrate? Power and arbitraryness. What does it have to change? The change that is needed is a profound change of attitude, freedom of initiative and flexibility in public school and university, not overregulation centrally or deregulation, but increasingly self-regulation of the educational system. The digital school that we set up, the school network, the "e-me", the "photo tree", the digitalisation of all books was intended to reach even the point where teachers and students themselves, to produce teaching material. Again, the Education Institute, the IPE, as it is said, would have been the only job to testify to these new contents. The role of teachers is, of course, different. Instead of tradition and memorization, we want him a mentor, a life guide, a counselor for a young man who now draws his own special path. The full - time school also wanted these goals to serve. Three targets: First, the bag at school and not at home. Second, help the working parents. Thirdly, a flexible programme of support for pupils and the broadening of horizontals with the use of local cultural wealth. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation has meaning to say, because we give freedom and assess the result. Do we want the camera as just a means of controlling our central instructions, or do we want a technology as a tool for innovation, initiative, better transmission of knowledge and support for teachers and students with new practices across Greece? With the national sanitation centre, we wanted to free schools from universities and universities from centralism. The national dismissal would be the guarantee, the certification that the student ends with a necessary complete body of knowledge, even if he acquired them by various methods, decentralized and free to choose new objects. As for the university, radical decentralisation is refren. You said, Minister, that you are dismantling power with this bill. You don't. I take, for example, the foreign language programmes. If it had been left as was the law of 2011, today we would have thousands of foreign students together with new resources and jobs. Reiterate this provision - it goes without saying - but with contradictions mentioned in the report by the Legal Service of Parliament. You exclude Greeks from entering foreign-language programmes, but you leave citizens of the European Union. The result is either that the citizens of the European Union will be excluded or you will be forced to accept Greeks, but by circumventing the provision for free education, since there will be also tuition fees. But what are you going to do with the Greeks of the diaspora, a Greek of America, South Africa, Australia? Will you rule out Hellenism? I propose that they be open for Greek students, but without circumventing our constitutional obligation and tradition of free education. There are proposals. I won't go into details, but if there was systematic consultation, I think there would be solutions. But if we accept this principle of university autonomy for foreign languages, why not all of them? With the original proposal for the national sanitation centre we wanted to give the HEIs freedom to define the specific courses they request for admission. We intended to introduce a student into a school or university, not to a section - for example an introduction to the Polytechnic - and then choose whether he would become an engineer, an architect or a computer, that is to say, it would not be necessary for the young person to decide at the age of 14 or at the age of 15 to be able to add, change or combine cognitive objects and diplomas and the central state to certify that the degree given to him is, in fact, in line with the level indicated. Decentralisation, transfer of power and management to the educational community and the region and together evaluation and certification. Decentralisation, the dismantling of power, which does not mean also the dismantling of responsibility. Responsibility for proper funding, responsibility for serious evaluation, responsibility for proper infrastructure, responsibility for accessing all to technology, responsibility for systematic training of teachers and teachers, responsibility for maintaining adequacy of procedures everywhere, responsibility for hitting inequality, for example by vocational quality education, with support for areas such as Thrace, mountain and island regions, strengthening strata that have particular social and economic problems, from the poorest, the unemployed, the migrant, the Roma, to the disabled. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that there are differences and they are serious. Paulo Freire, with whom I worked, is a teacher who fought for the liberation of the peoples of Africa, but also so many people point out that the school system can promote blind immorality, fear of initiative, punishing free thinking and questioning, wanting discipline from above and instead of autonomous personality to want dependence and fearful obedience to power, an industrial model of education that rewards the most adaptive to the entrepreneurials of a established perception. Does your insistence on stating the conduct express? On the other hand, school can cultivate continuing critical thinking, the scientific method of questioning, the creative initiative, the synthetic and collective concept, the interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary approach of courses, as Finland is doing today. With self-discipline and love for each of us to acquire knowledge throughout our lives, not only professionally but also as critically thinking and participating citizen. "It is a successful teacher who did so maturely in his work that he will no longer need him." Evangelos Papanoutsos. This concept will guarantee a society that is resistant to major challenges, such as pandemics, technological revolution or climate change. You choose once more to stay on the conservative side. We are always with a progressive perception of the major changes in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. The State Secretary for Education, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. I really heard the speech of the former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou. In fact, what I found are shocks. Mr Papandreou has set an example of law, where law by artificial intelligence methods is much more effective, faster than traditional methods. In fact, in today's era of the fourth industrial revolution or exponential revolution as I like to characterize it - and now we are all more familiar with the term of exponential growth, and so it is called because legislative changes are taking place very quickly - we have very many complex problems that are needed to deal with complex approaches, and these complex approaches are characterised by 'interdisciplinaryity'. And, indeed, with this bill on foreign-language curriculum, we give the departments the opportunity to establish 'Joined' and 'Double Degres' programmes, double and double-skilled programmes, which is nothing but this interdisciplinaryity, which you mentioned, Mr Papandreou, and these programmes we intend to extend them to Greek-language programmes, so double-skilled projects, double-level projects, with the framework law that will come later on for universities. A second point you mentioned was, as you described it, decentralisation. But the condition of self-defence - as we call it - is clearly within this bill. Foreignlanguage programmes are established simply by decision of the university itself without any intervention by the Ministry of Education. The universities, therefore, make a decision in the Senate by suggesting the parties involved. This decision shall be adopted by the Senate and shall proceed by themselves to establish these programmes, without any association with the international university, which was the arrangement brought by SYRIZA, or without the need for a ministerial decision, as provided for in the regulation of SYRIZA. But I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, it has been heard by you and also by the Chief of Staff of the House of Commons that the Scientific Service of Parliament has raised issues in relation to the non-importation of Greeks into these foreign-language programmes. If you read the report from the Scientific Agency, there is no comment on the fact that these programmes are aimed only at foreigners, foreigners and not Greeks. And there is no such observation, because for the Greeks there is the good of public and free education in traditional programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u382	He didn't mention that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u383	I am referring to the Chief of Staff Response, who said there is a comment in the report on the issue of non-importation of Greeks into foreign-language programmes. So there is no question of the scientific service or of discrimination against Europeans, as it also provides for them to be able to enter traditional programmes or unconstitutionalism as Article 16 is not violated, because these programmes are directed at foreigners and there are no tuition fees for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u384	Mr Dimitris Vartzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, Minister, former ministers, this bill comes in a proper way, in a proper way, to meet certain very pressing needs. What are these needs? It results from the findings of the PISA programme, the international student assessment programme - it is in 2018, recently - which says that the proportion of Greek students who have one of the two greatest performances in secretarial level 5 and 6, that is to say one of the three cognitive objects that is to understand text, mathematics and natural sciences and skills of the world's citizens, is only 6.2%, while the OECD average is 15.7%. On the contrary, the proportion of Greek students who have the lowest performance of 1a and 1b in all three cognitive objects is unfortunately 19.9% against just 13.4% of the OECD average. As you can see, these differences are very important statistically and therefore extremely dramatic about the situation of our country's education system. You are therefore aware, ladies and gentlemen, that it is absolutely essential to make a substantial restructuring, a definitive modernisation of compulsory education, and that is why it is absolutely essential that these skill workshops be introduced, even piloted, to develop life skills, technology skills, science, critical thinking, and possibly become tools for the discovery of talents and gradients. Hence, it is absolutely necessary to examine in high school and the Ancient Greek and Greek secretariats and biology and English that go through kindergarten and of course to upgrade information technology, to be able to pass courses, presenting coherent work with the beginning, middle and end. Hence the need to increase the number of standards so that we have standards of excellence and incentives for participation in them, as well as the number of experimental fields, which should be devoted to the evaluation of educational and educational programmes internally and externally, which are of course only reliable when they are based on structured figures and results, namely those of the PISA programme. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the question cannot be prevented: why should we return to Parliament with a year, with a parliamentary term, in a parliamentary term in order to resolve the same questions? Why do we have to return, for example, to changes in the way in which higher education is introduced? They would allow me to say that in such cases for us doctors the answer is rather simple. We say that the treatments are rather symptomatic and not justified, that is to say, they are facing the symptoms of the disease rather than the reason for it. And who's that? Positive sciences know that this is seen in two ways, measurement and comparison. So if we measure and compare basic sizes of the Greek educational system with those of Europe, we will find some deafening differences. In our home country there is the largest pan-European number of students, i.e. students in higher education, while on the contrary those who receive a degree are more than average. This means that many enter and end quite fewer. In Greece, the proportion of schoolchildren in relation to these professional high schoolchildren is seventy and thirty. If you see the percentage of students in vocational schools - that is, the two-tier education system, apprenticeship - it is minimal in relation to European data. This, ladies and gentlemen, means the following. Firstly, these proportions are completely opposite to those of Europe. This means that we are lacking medium-sized technical staff. This means that the country's production base has a major problem. Secondly, there is a great crowd in higher education, even for schools to which free access is granted to the largest universities in Europe. This means, of course, that children are working in the university for a long time and with a singleness which - let me say it as a psychiatrist - is crucial for the completion of their personality these years. This means that the institution of care is developing in our country. It is probably a pan-European phenomenon, which devours a significant part of the average available family income. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a solution and this solution lies in this bill. It is the essential upgrade of compulsory education. Watch out. Skill workshops may be essential tools, not just evaluation, but also to assist children, teachers and their parents to choose correctly between general and technical education. If this is combined with incentives, for example, direct access from secondary technical education to higher education, as was done many decades ago with great success, and if this is coupled with what is being done throughout Europe, that is, vocational schools will be fully integrated into the labour market, that is to say, they will depend entirely on the functioning of the professional chambers of the country, then know that we have a recipe for success. Ladies and gentlemen, this will only dismantle higher education. Only in this way will it be able to follow its evolution to be like the historical patterns of the West. The substantial development of technical education in the historical European tradition of many centuries is absolutely essential. It is a precondition for consortia for the final settlement of the country's professional and general education system. This definitive arrangement, the final modernisation of the country's educational system, can be done, Mr Kastanidis, at this juncture only by the conservative party, because it has only the ideological tools to bring it into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos is called in Stepma by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u387	I am trying to remember how many reforms that concern school have been made by the conservative party so far in the country and I must say that they are only reforms. Minister, you say that you are still doing a reform, so the word has lost all meaning. I would like to ask what exactly your bill reforms, beyond some functional improvements. The first and most important thing for every reform is its link with the institutional context, with its urgent needs with regard to the institution and how it is linked to developments in the area. Not only in the space, but in the country. Because in school there is the heart and pulse of the country. What would be the content of a modern reform? In some abstraction of your word, in the criticism that you are being made that you continue the previous government's policy with micro-improvements, your answer is that there is continuity in the state. Continuing to deregulation of the educational system, like you complained? I remind you that the latest reform in education was done in 2011 by a law that you voted on. Since then - and here we have a responsibility - the sweater, instead of being educated, has started to fall apart with SYRIZA's policy. If, then, there was a continuity in the state, you had to start over there. Since 2011. Keep the values and directions of that law guided and adapt to the modern needs that have either been caused by the greedy technological revolution or stem from the catalytic presence of a pandemic that changes things irreversibly. I am trying to find out what adjustments you have made on the basis of that framework and I am disappointed. Indeed, there is uncontinuation in the state and you are part of this discontinuity. In this context that was envisaged by that reform, you should build up the upgrading of education in the only way that is legitimate, acceptable and sure, putting the whole education community together with a creative, open dialogue with the whole of society and its institutions. Education is not the case of a minister nor even of a government. Unfortunately, however, education is also sacrificed in the name of communication. Instead of reconstituting the National Education Council and bringing this original proposal into line with society as a whole. One of the twenty-six bills to be voted on in forty days on the altar at all times of the ready-made and technocratic government and the effective Prime Minister. One more gonatogram. Except this time he touches the most sensitive part of the country's needs. Really how did our technocratic Prime Minister and Maximus' governance system accept that there is no word about technological, technical and vocational education in a law titled to upgrade school? Are we talking about productive reconstruction? Are we talking about innovation and a digital state? We are talking about human resources taking the lead in the second industrial revolution. And that's nothing to do with the substance? Because in words something is written by the upgrade of school. Really, how did the modern and modern Prime Minister deal with the issue of declaring the conduct in the dismissals? I am frightened by the fact that at the wheel of political education there is a deeply conservative Minister. Just that he supports the indication of the conduct on the certificate of knowledge that the student goes out to society, I'm afraid. It's not just the glimpse of the case. It is indicative of a mindset that looks obsessively backwards. A culture that only anti-reforms thinks and acts. Really, how did the realistic Prime Minister find the deposit of a bill that does not touch any of the functional problems arising out of the pandemic a few weeks before the reopening of the courses in September? How will the schools open up, under what conditions, with which relations with tele­vision and living, with which logistics infrastructure easily adaptable to emergency conditions? We are setting headlines, in fact, impressive, for example, “distance of modern education” or “life-transmission of the class lesson”. Not allowing children from Crete, for example, to give examinations on the ground in the specific courses, in the musical instruments, in the design and in others - as Mr Kegeroglu and other colleagues are here - is in complete contrast with what the headings say. By not guaranteeing such content, terms, conditions of sound and acceptable to operating teachers, we do not show seriousness and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps the only juncture after decades that social and political forces are creating a common consciousness of the problems and the changes required by the circumstances. Not a common view or a proposal but a common poem that can lead to compositions. If there is one area where structural changes are urgent and for them to be lastingly agreed, it is education, together with health, labour and public administration. You didn't dare. I'm thinking outright names, real headlines with real content. The National Council of Education, the full-day school, the National Dismissal, the aptitude system for the selection of teachers, the digital school, distance learning, cognitive teaching and functional decentralisation. They are conquests that have been set up as headlines and which should, literally, be reformed in today's era and constitute a chariot of our education forward. Because education does not even need a return to normality. That is the definition of conservative perception and practice. We need to move to a new school, a new school of change and reform, a new school of age. And since we've been talking all these days about the national strategy, this school should be her penis for the next few decades. Finally, I would like to refer to one, for all of us politicians, a hot matter. The institutions of the educational community reacted overall to the specific provisions of the bill. There are two sides of the problem opposingly. The first relates to claiming. It contains the sperm of exaggerated claims that is easily transferred to a synagogue. This, however, also comes as a balance both in the lack of dialogue and in the sense of equal treatment which in the name of rightfulness is questioned and debated by any mobilisation. It's an easy and convenient accusation of being justified. But the coup d'état and arbitrary functioning of the government builds the fronts. Dialogue forms shared consensus and consciences and it is completely foreign to your practice. The fact that today the general political climate is easily devoid of any mobilisation and claim, that democracy is at risk of being a major blow to democracy, because it evicts its power and, in particular, its conservative practice into arbitrary practices, which not only suppress but also marginalise the representative institutions. In the name of the right it is attempted to waive all rights. However, every citizen, and in particular every teacher, has the right to dignity. The educational community, as many times as it has been called in dialogue, in the constant reforms that have taken place over the last forty years, has been present, has been positive and has made a decisive contribution to moving things forward. One final word: I am, we are stable, for reasons of principle and ideology, in favour of the real evaluation of education and all levels of education, always in conjunction with self-assessment and training processes. I remember a great politician who at the same time was a radical and innovative university teacher. I'm not talking about Glen or Papanucho, I'm talking about Andreas Papandreou. At a historic moment when the first reform that we have attempted and discussed the abolition of the building's almightyness and the democratic university, at a meeting in Castri, was amazed at the revolutionary scientific teaching, the famous SAR for us older people, and within our area not to accept evaluation. His reaction was catalytic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u388	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u389	But is it possible, he says, that we should be socialists in the most sensitive area of knowledge, a knowledge that is doubled every year on the planet, that the teacher is not judged and is not constantly retrained? The very same principle we feel today is forty years later. Unfortunately, you missed another chance. You didn't just lose her, all of us lost her, especially home.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, until the Step is cleared, can I have the floor for a minute? You'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Kegeroglu, would I like him to speak about a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I ask for your understanding and you will understand why I ask to speak. There is an extraordinary problem, but it has not been solved for a long time. A problem created by the natural disasters that occurred specifically in Kissamos Chania, however, concerns other areas and because of the coronary, the rooms could not be restored so that children would be all right within their school. It is possible with an amendment that I have tabled that the municipality should be supported, so that the authorisation of prefabricated rooms, as we would like to say, can also be granted by another body, due to a lack of technical service from the municipality. And I would like to ask the Ministry to see this amendment along with what Mr Scandalides said. The four hundred candidate students from Crete do not go to Athens for special examinations, for special courses, but become centers on the island due to exceptional circumstances. We can't squeeze them on a boat to bring them to Athens. Of course, there is a need for other large islands too, but because my dear colleague, Mr Scandalidis, covered it, I referred to Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u393	The Minister has reserved to tell a little which of the amendments has been accepted. We continue with Mr Athanasio Ljupi from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a joint statement that our education is a very vulnerable area. Of course, it would be reasonable for educational policy to be formulated with the consent of the political forces and to have a horizon of at least 10 years of implementation, so that it could deliver the expected results. Instead, frequent changes in educational process data create confusion and insecurity for both pupils and teachers. However, since the two-day debate on the current bill in plenary, it is concluded that it is not the ideological differences that create a gap between the parliamentary parties. It is the sterile refusal that produces no dialogue. The provisions of today's draft law aim to upgrade public education. Skill labs in primary and secondary education come to broaden the narrow role of school, as we all know it. They raise the school in a multifaceted and experiential experience. Children cultivate skills through four thematic sections: living, environment, social empathy and responsibility, creative thinking and initiative. Of course, skill workshops cannot be compared with the limited time and materially thematic week that has been implemented so far. The familiarity of children with English sounds in kindergarten, because this is not about learning English, it can only be positive experience. English is the world language. No matter what different scientific opinions have been made on this issue, it is a given fact that children in infantry learn quickly and easily through the game. Standards and experimental schools have given food for a lot of discussion in this bill. The truth is that we need these two forms of schools to test in practice educational methods, which will then be applied throughout the educational community. In the standards of schools, pupils are introduced through an examination procedure and their core function is excellence. Excellency is a word that has been debated a lot in the last few days. In model schools excellence concerns the best possible educational material and environment, so that students who want and can discover their skills and develop them to the maximum extent. On the other hand, experimental schools implement experimental educational practices and students come by lottery. The school advisor comes to complement the already existing structures of a public school, helping students and parents on various issues of everyday school life, such as dealing with extreme behavior, learning difficulties or even raising and helping students with special talents. A very important part of today's bill concerns the evaluation of school units and educational work with a view to continuous improvement. School is a living organization with multiple needs. The evaluation as planned at three levels, programming, self-assessment and external evaluation will highlight all good practices and help correct wrong manipulations. The evaluation word should not scare either teachers or those carrying out administrative tasks at school. It is a self-evident and absolutely necessary process, and in no case is this a punishment for teachers, as was heard by the Anti-Population. A point I would like to make in relation to the system of relocations to which an additional academic criterion is rightly introduced. I would like to refer to the constant request, as has been mentioned by colleagues, Mr President-in-Office, to reintroduce the status of free registrars for children of polytecture, as has been the case for decades. Government policy focuses on addressing the serious demographic problem. In this context, the practical support for the multiple families is, in my opinion, necessary. Finally, a major qualitative upgrade is sought in higher education. This bill focuses on strengthening the extroversion of Greek universities. The Greek universities acquire greater autonomy in this context, after organizing autonomously foreign-language undergraduate programs, summer programs and double study programs. In this way the Greek universities are emerged and new prospects are being opened from partnerships with foreign universities. Those who do support the public nature of higher education must agree that we must ensure that the Greek universities are modernised so that they become competitive with foreign universities. Overall, today's bill gives new impetus to education, tackles the educational process as a course worth planning from kindergarten to university, and that is why it makes key corrective moves at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u395	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Demetrios Haritou has the floor now from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mr President. I listen with caution to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and I wonder what perspectives may have changes in areas such as education, if it is not the result of exhaustive dialogue, of the consent of the educational community and does not guarantee the minimum tolerance of the political forces. What of these conditions have you ensured? None! You're alone and politically isolated. You have had monologues, Minister, in the media without apologies, in the middle of a pandemic, in hiding from society, precisely so that your fears and uncertainties do not appear. With the bill you started for ten months, you are continuing to demolish what positive arrangements the previous government had taken to strengthen public education, because your goal is to weaken it in the interests of private interests. May I remind you, gentlemen, of the two-year institutes in the universities that you have abolished? May I remind you of the thirty-seven new departments that you also abolished? The theme week in schools? The 'green' schools regulations as a first step towards the transition to free access to higher education? What, gentlemen, are the new ideas, the new one that you bring with the regulations that you enter in the bill we are discussing today? Instead of continuing, as we have started, the planning for the reform of the curriculum, in order to make school more attractive and more efficient, what are you doing? You are turning it into a permanent examination centre. Is that the new one you've introduced? Is it new that you increase the number of courses considered and extend the examinations by the end of the year? Or that you're upgrading the graduation limits? Is it new, Minister, to increase the number of first grade students, who in a provocative way just before you tried to hide? How young can it be to bring back from the past of the topic bank, which smashed the student leak to 23%, pushing children into early training for cheap apprenticeship? And all this, of course, without taking any measures to support and prepare the weakest pupils to cope with. So I ask you which of these so-called new measures have not been tested, they have not been judged and have failed in the past. You're glorifying, gentlemen, the schools - why do you think their associations are smiling and praised? - while you force parents to put a deeper hand in the pocket. You are not interested, gentlemen, in upgrading public education, so that all children have equal access opportunities at all levels. There is no more characteristic sample of this choice than the provisions entered for the standards and experimental schools. Why, gentlemen, should the cultivation of excellence be the only goal of the model schools and obviously not be by shaping all the conditions, the aim and the mission of all the school units in the country? To whom is it believed, when you say that the upgraded model school that brings together the excellent students, probably the best teachers, can be diffused, spread to the other schools, where the level of pupils due to social and educational inequalities does not fit, is lower than that of the model school? So who are you kidding? Tell them, gentlemen, to the parents of the students of the Rodopi Schools, to the Sapes, to Ismo, to the mountainous tumor! You are interested in making schools of many categories, different speeds, other schools for elite children and others for the children of the weakest economic strata. You're not listening to anyone. You're not listening to us. Listen to at least the teachers! Listen to the experts' views! You are told by the presidents of all educational departments that the introduction of English into the kindergarten is unscientific, that it ignores the particular educational needs of infants and you do not give anyone - but none! - important, it doesn't sweat your ear. With the same ease, Minister, you ignored the IPP and abolished the pilot program of the twelve kindergartens in Thrace. I understand the extremists in the minority very well, and not just, who do not want the minority children to join our educational system. In addition, I would say that they were disturbed because the pilot project explicitly set the criteria for selecting the assistant partner in kindergarten the knowledge of the mother tongue. As an example, in kindergartens of the mountain range, the selection criterion was knowledge of the pomaceutical language or other kindergartens of the Turkish language. But will you explain to us why you have abolished them, ladies of the majority? You put a night bomb on the foundations of the public university by establishing foreign-language undergraduate courses with tuition. It is a perforated provision, which the Scientific Service of this House itself openly disputes, a provision on which it will be a matter of time for the European Union to intervene and demand equal treatment of all its citizens, as it has done with colleges and, of course, you have not ruined them. I wish you, Minister, had the same ingenuity and interest in public universities! The Senate of the Democritus University for a year has tabled the proposal for the establishment and operation of new departments at our aesthetic university, three of them in the town of Komotini, which matured from the former head of the Ministry but did not have time to complete its vote. You, Minister, although with the n. 4653 have entrusted the National Higher Education Authority with the competence to assess the new departments for seven months, you have not yet adopted the relevant Ministerial Decisions on evaluation procedures. I have asked you by question, to proceed with the establishment of the new departments at the Democritus University. Although you are not used to it, Minister, to answer, I hope that this time you will do us the honor, not for me, but for the local society that expects with interest your responses to this particular issue. Mr President, the bill does not meet the needs and expectations of both our youth and our society. That is why I am voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u397	Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the last time we have been working on this bill, both during the consultation and during the debate in the committee responsible, much has been written and heard. The Civic Opposition with irreversible expressions in many cases attacked the whole of the provisions. The political leadership of the Ministry of Education has, of course, responded to all the objections, as often as it may have been necessary, exhausting all margins. And yet, SYRIZA continues his shackle. Because the rhetoric it uses does not only highlight the huge ideological gap that we have with SYRIZA in the issues of education, it reveals an attempt to crush every element that characterises the national identity of this country. I say this because it is not possible to reject all the provisions of a legislative framework and not to discern a single positive point, especially in a bill such as this, which relaunchs practically basic pathogens of the national education system. How does he do that? It does so by modernising the system, providing more effective education for our children. He does it through excellence, rewarding their effort, effort and achievements. It does so with transparency that higher education institutions will stop acting as a party party group and provide their scientific work with unreservedly. It does so with extroversion, linking education to both the needs of Greek society and the international environment. I know you disagree, but in this environment our children will live, whether you like it or not, and they should be qualified to make the best use of it. In this respect, I could not think of a more innovative act than the introduction of English into the kindergarten. By playing, in other words, to allow toddlers, by soft nails, to experientially assimilate the correct English joint and not, of course, to take it distorted by television or playstation, which - if possible - sounded in here. However, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you do not accept that either. Instead, you are insisting that you are supposedly concerned with which other countries are applying it. It was fully explained and detailed information was provided in the countries applying it but in vain. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to remember that we are a European country. With our European identity, we are now going to the future. In the same direction, on the basis of the formation of a public education system that rewards the good student and motivates him to progress, the standards and experimental schools are remodeled. After the sad period of the Greek education of Gabroglou, where every effort has been made to strike out excellence and prevent the development of the best possible, the new provisions will, on the one hand, restore the healthy framework of competition and, on the other, innovation in education. Sixty-two schools and two categories will work throughout the country since the new school year. At the same time, there is a public invitation to candidates for other school units to qualify as standard or experimental, thus strengthening the institution. Of course, we all know that these changes are of direct interest to the citizens. That's what the consultation has shown, Minister. That's what day-to-day contact with them. However, in my region, in Patras, the enthusiasm for the restoration of the institution was accompanied by objections from parents and teachers about the school structures that would be characterized as experimental and standards in our region. The Ministry has therefore taken into account these comments of consultation. He listened to us local Members and made improvements to the relevant provision. Madam Minister, thank you for that and for this step. Many problems, however, left to us by SYRIZA's educational policy, are still afflicting our local society. To mention, for example, the irrational integration of the multi-technical departments of the TEI of Patras at the University of Peloponnese in Tripoli, and thus the administration of these departments is two hundred kilometres from their headquarters. No logic whatsoever, ladies and gentlemen. Before I close, let me have another brief mention of higher education. It is imperative that universities should be given freedom and motivation to improve their strategic planning. In other words, as autonomous units, they must set targets, design programmes and seek the maximum degree of interconnectivity both with the other academic environment and with the labour market. The success of their design will be evident from the results produced. The aim, therefore, of the Ministry with the provisions on HEIs is to ensure the proper functioning of university departments and to provide them with the facilities to produce innovative projects. In this context, foreign-language programmes and cooperation with foreign universities are a tangible example of sound academic action and operation, with benefits both for the academic system and for local communities. Let me conclude by pointing out that the power point for education in the New Democracy programme to which Mr Philis referred days ago may have been a pluralist but it contained in our basic positions for it, the very same positions that this bill now establishes, with the sole aim of upgrading the national education which you have achieved. Be sure that the results of the process of teaching that we are building will benefit everyone not only from the'slavemen', the'slavemen', as you are claiming left-wing colleagues. So stay for a while with your prejudices and join the fertile dialogue. I believe that a modern education system can act as a catalyst in our country's upward course. We are working in this direction, and we must all work. Before I close, let me wish from this Step good success to all the children who will give tests in a few days, good power to their parents, stand by them as they always do. And what we are saying is not an expression of clichés, but it is the first battle and many will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u399	My colleague, Liana Kanelle, is called at Step by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you were very sure that you had the whole society, as you have presented it, then you would not be borrowed from a Left that you have never heard from the Frenchman or from Delmuzo. Loan you took it and we're talking about places many decades ago. Because they didn't just say that, but it's nice to invoke the Left when you need it to give color. So I'll answer you with something that doesn't even exist in your bill and comes from a man who at least never stated in the life of the Left. I'll tell you at the end who it is, who it is, who it is, who it is. "The letters are one of the most polite exercises and the highest desires of man. Education is the ruler of life, and because these principles are true, we must not forget that there is a good education, that which liberates and helps people to complete according to themselves, and bad discipline, that which distorts and escapes. And it is an industry that produces the pseudo-formed and the newly-engineered, who have the same gracious kindness as the new riches of money. We say and see every day that we live in a chaos of morality. But when one of the two arms is over-fooding, the other one flies. We say and see every day that we live in a chaos of morality. What I would say at a time when the distribution of the elements of our material existence has never been carried out by such a system, so military - I would say - order, so inconsistently controlled. If language was just a means of communication, there would be no problem. But it also happens to be a tool of magic and moral values. A certain ethos and morality are inviting the language to the length of the centuries, without forgetting that in the length of twenty-five centuries, not one has passed since the Greek poetry was not written. Here's what's the great delivery burden that this instrument is picking up. It's not enough to dream about the lyrics. It's a little bit. It's not enough to politicize, it's too much. Deep down, the material world is just a bunch of materials. It will depend on whether we are good or bad architects the final result, heaven and hell we will build. If poetry provides assurance and, in particular, in the small times - I translate the German word - it is precisely that, our destiny is nonetheless in our hands." Odysseus Elytis, on the day he was announced to take Nobel to the press conference that he gave to the hotel "Great Britain". A man who doesn't have the opinion of nowhere and you took the language and made it a recipe for cooking. In the country of this man, this Nobel, you are talking to me about European standards, about American standards. You invented the moral weight behind the word "world" or "cosmite". And I'm asking you. We really ask you, we throw pedals at this bill you brought, because it's not just linked to the market, it's raw and cynical. The school models you go to make, as you want to make and multiply them, are actually a pool, a tank to easily find outlets for the Greek people and public - the next CEO. Nothing more than that. Why if you go to the skills and have a child in the twelve or thirteen, dealing with new technologies, and a mind in hacking, where his mathematics and computer knowledge far exceed the average of people who have gone and the first year of the university, what are you going to do with it? Will you give him a world conduct? Do you have such a system that you understand, from a seemingly invasive behavior, a child's mental ability at skill level? To do this, there must be knowledge. Rightness comes next. It comes as a multiplier of knowledge power, and this is not a school that provides knowledge inexperienced and equal and homogeneously throughout the population, at the level of public school, it provides it with categorized, deep classic and reaches all levels. I lived through the experience of a first grade student who studied with coronary speech telephony. You don't want to live it. It is far from the education, not like the retsindo fantasy, which the Greek people say is far from the point of view. Then I heard a doctor, who his brother is giving an English top university test in the third year of medicine and now - because he suits the chapter at this stage with the coronary crisis - all the lessons are made with téléconférence. And the kid was taking tests to get a serious lesson in the third year. You know what he said to me? "Let me go, go home, help my brother, because he doesn't look at Téléconférence." He would ask the university, and his brother, who's already a doctor, would answer, and he knows something more. It's a few examples that in America, you occasionally downloaded it down, parents who bought degrees. So, at this level, do you bring in a bill, which is really open and really progressive? What's the good school? Good school is what the child is looking forward to going to. He looks forward to going to primary school and kindergarten, because he will play through the game, based on the root of the word, will be taught. It must be a school, which is not a shelter, it's not a parking lot. It's a school that opens minds, doesn't close them. To open up the minds, the state's minds must be open to the education it wants. It cannot be a school, which sees it as a louke, to ensure a living, believing that - my, supposedly - learns to recognize the nice one from which euphoria arises. The nice thing means being mature, that's to say, being on time. You've put the cart in front of the horse. You're imitated. But you do not imitate deeds of great importance and perfection. You share other educational systems. You are disqualified from the Greek reality of school, which has people, who are substitutes for fifteen and twenty years and can take it and go and teach. And you don't simulate them, who have the courage, but they're still pending, not knowing whether they'll work or not. They didn't leave the students, they didn't leave their students in any way and at personal cost. You were talking about the case right now of the teacher in Xanthi and you have a teacher, who goes alone to four schools! Four schools! It's in four schools, that's why they closed eighty. You have a teacher in four schools. Four schools! What's he doing? He's taking his car and he's going? Does he pay for gasoline too? He goes into public transport and goes to four schools the teacher, who got stuck in a coronary? We're sitting here discussing that you're stepping up the education that you have a teacher in that area to teach in four schools? Whether he's a gymnast or an English teacher or a whatever.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u401	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u402	So you bring a bill that looks modern, with high quality, according to Elytis - I honestly repeat it - the newly rich perception of learning, which has the same gracious kindness as the newly rich of money. You are newly armed to knowledge. With your health, we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u403	Ms Bakadima, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, Madam and Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, today is seventy-six years since the nazi atrocity of Distomos. Two hundred and twenty-eight people were slaughtered, with indescribable mania. Ladies and gentlemen, we must honour their memory, remembering their sacrifice, but also by ensuring above all that there are no proper ground for organisations and parties - cultures of Nazi and neonazi ideology in Greece today. We owe it to our ancestors, we owe it to our offspring, to root out any such chambers. I hope wholeheartedly that we do not have a moment to see such a party in Parliament again. Let's move on to the bill under discussion. Second day of discussion of the Ministry of Education bill, aimed at upgrading the school. Of the several articles that it contains, you will allow me to speak only to some, starting with the fifth article which restores the representation of conduct in qualifications. We believe that the reintroduction of such a practice is clear and universally anachronistic and turns us several decades back into time. Children, but also adolescents, will no longer be forced to live their age, because a, not universal behaviour, as it will be shown in their qualifications, will accompany them forever without any clear reference being made to the reason which led the Ministry of Education to take such a decision, in fact making a return to the past. I sincerely hope that we will not see somewhere below and the reintroduction of the school legs and the "law of 4000", which defined the treatment of young people, who were known as teddyboys and were considered dangerous because of their behaviour, which was characterized as an atrocious and provocative by the government at the time of the New Democracy of 1958. I move on to Article 38 and the provision for the creation of the post of school advisor, who comes to take the place of educational trust, as he had come up with the consultation. Before entering into its essence, we cannot fail to point out that this is something extremely insulting to all teachers, because everyone is a teacher of confidence. What do we learn now if we read the article in this regard? First, that, following a recommendation from the head of the school unit and a proposal from the school club, two school-leaving consultants are appointed to each secondary school unit. Secondly, those taking the role will be trained periodically. Training will be carried out in cooperation with the IPE and the training coordinators. Thirdly, each consultant will be able to intervene or guide and inform students, parents, as well as guardians of various issues of pedagogical management. From this wording, the questions raised are many. What does it mean to be a school-leaving counselor and how does the number two appear, which has been included in the bill? What will be the particular features a teacher should have to take the role of? How, in other words, is the choice of consultants? Is it a side way to avoid appointing social workers and psychologists? Suffice training, which they receive on a periodic basis, to be able to respond to such a demanding role? We don't think so. That is why we consider it necessary to have psychologists and social workers in our country's educational structures. I shall proceed to Rule 72 on transfers. If we read the sixth definition, we see that, per capita family income means the average of the last three financial years of the sum of the taxable income of the members of the applicant's family being registered or moved, i.e. parents, regardless of whether they make a joint or separate tax declaration and of the brothers under twenty-five years, if they are single and have the same taxable income. If the applicant’s parents are divorced, calculate the income of both parents. We believe that the way in which this part has been drawn up, this definition, creates many problems for several students and families. First of all, for single parent families, which the parent may have recognized, but has no other involvement nor even contact with the other parent and child. But also in cases of divorced spouses with one parent having no presence in the life of the child, so the other parent has her, the diligence, knowledge of the stated assets and economic situation of the missing parent. We believe that these cases are not too few, and that is why we would like, if you can, Minister, to see the wording of this definition before they are deprived of students who are entitled to relocate their right. I would like to close with a brief reference to Articles 96, 97 and 98 concerning the elections of Quaestors, Presidents, Deputy Presidents of Chambers and Heads of Sectors, in conjunction with Article 68 for the College of Deputies. They are articles that exclude all members of staff from the electorate from these elections, i.e. EDPS, EICs, administrators, leaving only the members of the board of directors as electors. In fact, we were amazed that, when the bill came up for consultation, these branches were only excluded from the election of firearms, and suddenly in what was submitted and we are discussing these two days, they were excluded from all the electoral procedures for the appointment of the university's single-faced administrative bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mera25, we see that the bill on the upgrading of school is, unfortunately, coming to continue with all the anti-educational and monumental policies of recent years, with which the conquests of the educational movement have been disqualified and continue to be disqualified. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The recruitment cuts, the abolitions, the mergers of departments and school units, which come together with the increase of pupils per department, have and will have direct consequences on the quality of the educational project. Unfortunately, with your reform, Minister, the school is transformed into a vastly exam centre, for anyone who endurs financially and psychologically, with the stress of the examinations, but also of conduct, to turn our students, our children, into machines that will fight for a perfect, often without any real knowledge or minimal. The school of education continues to become a school of fragmented skills, with only goal, pupils and families, optimal performance, even at the expense of children’s mental and physical health. In this effort, despite the fact that your bill will be passed, Minister, at least from the Politics, you will find against you, not only us and those who have a different vision of education, but the whole school and educational community, the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u405	Thank you for keeping time, Mrs Bakadima. Mr Dimitris Kouvellas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u406	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Bishop Estrada said: 'If a child cannot learn the way we teach him, perhaps we should teach him how he learns'. The draft law under discussion is a real reform for education, a reform that is capable of changing the landscape of education in our home country and supplying the next generations with all those learning supplies that are necessary for their later course. Of course, no reform can work in practice unless all of us, teachers, parents and students, are changed beforehand. Minister, they deserve you and the Undersecretaries warm congratulations, because for the first time, the Ministry of Education's bill answers the basic question of what kind of school we want. It is a consistent principle, our political view that we want a school of meritful, modern and open to society, with students who can equally develop their skills, but also teachers worthy to translate knowledge, behavior and lifestyle into our children. It aims, therefore, through a modern school to give society quality new generations. What exactly does the bill pursue? To develop modern skills in pupils, to invest in the potential of the educational community, in which we believe undoubtedly, to improve the quality of the educational work. The fact that, for the first time, so much emphasis is placed on small age and significant changes start from pre-school age, is enough to characterize the reform bill. And I say this with great care, with absolute interest, as the father of Victory, who will go to the infants of Thanos, who will go to the 1st grade, but also to Sotiris, who will start high school next September. I live these ages and feel the importance of these changes and I do not hide from you that I am optimistic about the new school in practice. Of course, fresh air reaches university education, and of course, it provides a school away from discrimination, a fearful partnership and, above all, away from incidents of violence and intimidation. It was a great pleasure, Minister, when I received your reply a few days ago to a question I had tabled about the grim phenomenon of bullying in our schools. In fact, several parents and parents' associations in Thessaloniki contacted me and shared your answer, which truly sends optimistic messages about dealing with this phenomenon through eighty-six programs that already evolve in our schools this year, as well as fourteen new measures designed by your Ministry. In addition, this draft law introduces the institution of the School Life Adviser, aiming precisely at providing advice, but also for pedagogical support to teachers, students, parents and guardians. The draft law also contains a number of important provisions, but I will refer only to a few key areas of this. Section One: We permanently abandon the sterile transmission of knowledge to our children and mark the turn of a school, focusing on the cultivating of skills, with a view to the twenty-first century. We are talking about life skills, such as critical thinking, efficiency, creativity, cooperation, initiative, but also social skills, such as solving problems, cultivating ecological awareness from small ages and technology and science skills, on the basis of the digital age that has already arrived. Madam Minister, I would propose here and here that programmes on skills should be introduced to provide first aid, but also to behave in health crises and even skills in addition to road safety and traffic education. They are extremely important, especially for our country, which mourns hundreds of our fellow citizens every year on the streets. Section 2: Introduction to kindergarten for students with English through creative activities. It is a good educational practice that will give the necessary additional supplies to our children in time. Section 3: The Foundation of the Board of Appeal in High School is re-addressed to improve the evaluation of students through appropriate selection of exams. Section 4: We have the introduction of the Class III course for the enhancement of general education and extension of the students' learning horizons. For example, history will be the opposite lesson for students who choose the practical direction, and mathematics for students who choose the theoretical direction. Section 5: We proceed, as we committed ourselves to our election programme, to the fair and targeted evaluation of both the school unit and the educational project, from which no one has to fear anything. I would even disagree with the fact that the performance of Greek schools and universities decreased during the period of crisis and memoranda, Mr Phile. On the contrary, this is due to the passion of the worthy teachers, but also to the talent of our students and students. Section 6: Re-enlargement of pilot and experimental schools, the experimental schools that you abolished in 2015, characterizing excellence as a retina. We regard noble speech as a prize for discriminating - and our children's excellence for a better future. The standards are aimed at strengthening the self-assurance of children. There the students enter with exams, while in experimental studies we will have developed new educational practice models - experimental, and the students will enter with a draw. Section 7: We provide greater freedom and autonomy to our universities. We are doing the extroversion, the true extroversion of these institutions, as we institutionalise the possibility of pre-graduate foreign-language departments, but also autonomous summer foreign-language departments again, in order to attract students from around the world, who will also carry currency, and the best ambassadors in Greece will be. Indicative of the true value of the Greek universities is that twenty-seven leading American universities have already expressed interest in cooperation with our own. I only mention, for example, Harvard and Columbia. We will not, of course, discuss the European universities, because we are already in good cooperation with the entire European university community. Eighth Section: An additional academic criterion is established for the first time in the student's relocations, the existing economic and social criteria are rationalized and the innovation of the second cycle is introduced, i.e. a second chance in the relocations. Minister, in Thessaloniki this year in the 1st grade of public schools, three hundred students were written less than last year compared to last year. The demographic problem bell has been beating too hard for a long time. I, too, convey to you the request of the multitude families for both a large number of teachers and to facilitate the transfer of students from multitude families. We must bend over the problem effectively and give economic breath to these fellow citizens. I am tabling the minutes of the Greek Confederation of Multifibres, which has already been put to your attention to further processing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our times are demanding. Whatever policy we implement in individual important areas, one thing is certain: Education was, is and will be the basis for Greece, the pillar for every development. Let us not forget, after all, that everything is a matter of education. I invite you all to vote in favour of this bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u407	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid any issue between us, I would like to tell you that in this process, on the basis of time, the last speaker will be in step after 00.30. There is no question of anxiety or fatigue from the Bureau. I would just ask you all to be in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u409	You're welcome, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u410	I had raised the matter earlier. He will be the last speaker after midnight, but as far as the debate on the articles is concerned. There are amendments and additions which do not relate to any section of the articles. So, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House, they must be debated after the debate on the subject. However, in order to know what the amendments - additions, which we will be discussing after the debate on the subject, we should be aware by the Minister of Ministers of which amendments will be accepted in the short term.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u411	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u412	Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u413	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, out of respect for your party rapporteur, I expected him to come and that's why I haven't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u416	We agreed, but we've been here for too many hours and they don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u417	Your party's request was, Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u418	I think it's clarified. Now I think the Minister will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u419	I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u420	We have been waiting for the Minister for too long. It took us a while, because of a meeting to miss.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u421	Now - now. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u422	I repeat, at the request of Mrs Kefalidou, that's why. All the ministerial amendments are, of course, accepted. With regard to the parliamentary amendments, two related by SYRIZA and the Change Movement have been tabled regarding the National School of Public Health of the University of West Attica. The bill already has a provision on postgraduate. Otherwise, the amendment cannot be accepted because it concerns undergraduate and, as you can see, it will go through the National Higher Education Authority. Postgraduate has already been planned. To be clear, I refer to Amendments Nos 341 and 314 and to Amendment No 348 and specific No 21. So they are not accepted. The amendment to the Change Movement under the general number 358 and a special number 31 is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u423	What's it about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u424	The amendment concerns the treatment of emergency needs, following floods, earthquakes and others, in relation to school units. The amendment from the Change Movement, as regards physics with a master's degree in radiopharmaceuticals - I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 350 and a special number of 23 - is more widely addressed - cannot be accepted at the moment, but it is something that we are considering as a Ministry. The amendment with a general number of 347 and a special number 20, with regard to the specific formal qualifications of appointment for philosophers, is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u425	Whose amendment is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u426	It's Mr. Lebanese's. Amendment No 357 by Mr Konstantopoulos cannot be accepted. There's care for the multiples. We are here to discuss further measures. But, as has been said between the others, there is, for example, no financial limit, no financial condition for the transfer. It cannot be accepted. The amendment of the Change Movement by a general number of 349 and a special number of 22, concerning the introduction of pupils of a Muslim minority in Thrace in Higher Education, cannot be accepted, but it is something that is considered more widely, with regard to the incentives that can be given. The amendment of the Change Movement, concerning the Department of Musical Studies of the Ionian University, cannot be accepted as it is, because it would prejudge the decision of the National Authority of Higher Education and the status which has already been voted on. Here we are, however, discussing how this issue can be resolved for the future as well. The amendment tabled by the SYRIZA basically - just twice, perhaps - with a general number of 346 and a special number of 19, with regard to the Greek Defence Systems is not acceptable. SYRIZA's amendments under general number 339, 338 and 337 are not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u427	What are the issues? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u428	The topics are: The operation of vocational training centres. It is Article 63 of the Law4686 and Article 50 of the Law4659. The amendment to the Merra25 pro gramme, with regard to the AACC, under a general number of 353 and a specialist number of 26, cannot be accepted. The compliance of the administration, precisely with the successors of the 2008 ADP, is limited to integration in the tables. It has already been included in the tables. These tables have expired. I repeat: it is Amendment No 353 and number 26, which cannot be accepted. The amendment under general number 352 and number 25, concerning the possibility of the title of a peer professor of the former TEIs, is accepted. The amendment under a general number 332 and a special number 8, regarding the purchase of ELMEPA property, is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u429	Who's that? Do we have this? Whose amendment is this? Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u430	It's Mrs. Bakoyannis. I don't know if I'm forgetting someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u431	Or 340?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u432	The amendment with a general number of 340 and a special number of 13, with regard to the AACC again, with the old competition and it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u433	Whose amendment is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u434	The Change Movement is the amendment with a general number of 340 and a specific number of 13 cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u435	I think you did not say about the amendment under a general number of 355.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u436	I said before about this amendment. The amendment with a general number of 355 and a special 28 on the introduction of Muslim minority students in Thrace to higher education is something that we are considering, with regard to the incentives that can be given. As it stands, it cannot be accepted at this time. I don't know if I've forgotten anybody else. Do I have them all covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u438	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Castanides will speak and you will speak, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u440	Minister, are you saying that you refuse to comply with irrevocable decisions of the administrative courts of the country? The amendment with a general number of 340 and a special 13 constitutes the compliance of the administration with irrevocable decisions of the administrative courts of the country, even after a decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State in a pilot trial. Do you want me to explain to you what this amendment stipulates - an addition we have tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u442	Mr President, then I have to explain to the House what it is for the Greek people to hear. Under Article 73 of Law 4589, the administration decided to comply with decisions irrevocable to the administrative courts, following a pilot trial and a decision by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State by decision No 527 of 2015, because teachers of all the 2008 PSC notices had been exempted from the appointments. Omission of the nomination of the 2008 training notices was affected, following appeals by interested parties to administrative justice. The administrative courts have awaited a decision from the pilot trial of the Council of State. Therefore, the Council of State, in full, adopted number 527/2015 and subsequently the administrative courts issued irrevocable decisions to comply, but in accordance with the provisions of Article 73, they should have been adopted until the entry into force of Law 2019. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Following the entry into force of Law 2019, new irrevocable judgments of the Administrative Courts were issued on the basis of Decision No 527/2015 of the Council of State. We will witness this, if you do not accept this amendment - adding: For those who had irrevocable judicial decisions until the entry into force of Law 4589, the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State will apply for those who do not have irrevocable judicial decisions after the entry into force of Law 4589, the same decision will not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u443	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u444	Wait a minute. There's a matter. It is not only that the principle of equal treatment is violated, but that the principle of the Constitution is violated, according to which the administration must comply with judicial decisions. Watch something. Mr. President. The decisions that were delayed were because the administration of the Ministry of Education appealed, while the others had not appealed. If today the Minister of Education states that her administration, her advisers refuse to comply with irrevocable judicial decisions, I must tell you that I have absolutely no comment to make. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr. Castanides. Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA had tabled three amendments, which were rejected. The first concerned the abolition of the notorious amendment to cameras in the classrooms. This amendment, this legislation has in practice been repealed. In no department in the country, no school in the country was implemented. There are also decisions by OLEME, the IOE, the OELEE who have appealed to some of them and the Personal Data Protection Authority for the violation of their personal data. I am sorry that the Minister, although she has in practice been abolished by teachers, insists in some way that this amendment is maintained for September. Secondly, the amendment on the infamous colleges of earlier government law: the Personnel Selection Board decided not to accept the participation of graduates in private colleges whose qualifications are professionally equivalent to the qualifications of public universities in order to take part in the examinations for the appointment of teachers. It's the AACC's decision because it's running the competition. It is an opportunity to return to constitutional legitimacy and the government to abolish a provision which is not applicable today even though it has been voted on. The AACC does not apply it, it is clear. Thirdly, the two-year technical education programmes at universities, which have been suspended again by the government to assess, when will they be assessed? This year is too. Is it possible, then, to freeze the implementation of programmes - does the government not say 'no' typically - and not to have a break-up, evaluation and operation from September onwards? These are the three amendments that we tabled to the government and rejected. I would have stopped here if I hadn't heard the amendments accepted by the Minister. Unfortunately, it is out of the question, if she knows and accepts this amendment. I am talking about Amendment No 352/25 tabled by Mr Stylos and Mr Pascalides, which calls for a change in the status of the peer professor to be awarded to teachers who are currently merged by the universities. You're going to tell me: what's the problem? He's diving the internet right now. You know that? I have the evidence. It's a photographic device. It concerns a case of a former professor at a TEI - I do not want to say any more - who applied for a retired teacher to be prosecuted by a creditor and rejected this request from the department, on the grounds that this gentleman has not presented any worthwhile work that would give him the opportunity to make use of this possibility of the law. I won't say any more. It's not that flattering for this gentleman. An amendment is now in place - a trick, which detracts from the general meeting of the department from the power to award a title of a peer professor and gives it to the consortium of the established HEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Comrade, you've reached four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u448	This is important because it shows a spirit of power. They tell us about autonomy, about so many things, and they make photographic provision. I don't have to say names. I'd like an answer. He's diving the internet. That's where I found out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u449	Madam Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u450	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u451	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u452	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] First of all, I will address Mr. Castanides. I am going to read to you a decision of the Tribunal of the Athens Administrative Court, which says: "The content of the administration's compliance with this decision is exhausted in its obligation to examine whether the applicant as a success in the 2008 SAP competition could legally acquire a right of appointment" and so on. Mr. Colleague, it's a complex matter, you know that. Here we are to talk about it. However, the Compliance Council has given specific guidelines. This is in relation to this amendment. On the issues raised by Mr Philis, first of all, Mr Phile, you said 'in no part of the country'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u453	Do you have any evidence? How much is it? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u454	Did you hear the agencies the other day?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u456	You have heard that this is being done against coral and in any case the decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u457	In private schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u458	I didn't interrupt you. With all due respect, Mr. Friend, I've learned to listen, record and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u459	But not a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u460	As I respect you, I would ask you, too, to respect my right to speak at the National Representation. We are talking about a provision for which a decision has been taken - an opinion of the Privacy Authority. What'd he say? That the purpose of the provision is legitimate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u461	First of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u462	First of all. You guys haven't even said the lawfulness anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u463	He's in crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u464	In principle, the purpose of the provision is legitimate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u465	Madam Minister, just a minute. Mr. Philly, please very much. At least you will listen, as the Minister has heard you. Please don't interrupt her again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u466	Secondly, for the two-year programmes, Mr Phile, I would remind you that these programmes were set up by ministerial decisions, two and three days before the elections, at random two and three days before the elections and in violation of your own law of 2017, which provided for the opinion of the National Council for Education and Development of Human Resources and the National Commission for Vocational Training and Training. Two days before we vote, Mr. Philly. Two days before the election, you set up these ministerial decisions in advance. Thirdly, although the Secretary-General will answer. I will say a word about the amendment you have referred to. Will Mr. Dygalakis answer you in detail, but how photographic can it be an amendment that refers to the professors of all the technical educational establishments in the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u467	Here's to see her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u468	How photographic can it be an amendment that covers all the peer teachers of all the TEIs in the country? Mr. Undersecretary will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u469	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u470	Mr Colleague, you have the right to ask for the floor, you are a parliamentary representative. I would like to speak to the House and say that in this process, as it goes on, the last speaker will speak after 12 o'clock at midnight. I'm just finding out that. Will the State Secretary speak and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u471	Mr President, I forgot something. I'm so sorry. I'd like thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u472	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u473	With regard to the regulation of Article 50 to which you referred, Mr Phile, I assume that you think that it should also be done with the dozens of notices made by SYRIZA, on the basis of this arrangement, so you are withdrawing all the notices if you are tabling an amendment which provides for the abolition of this arrangement. I think it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u474	The Minister has the floor for a minute and we will normally continue with the speakers. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Philie, because he wrote it "DOCUMENTO" doesn't mean he's plunging the Internet. The procedure for becoming a peer professor is as follows: He makes an application to his department, the department is recommended and decided by the Senate. Now, what are we talking about here? You, in the last year, have abolished all the TEIs - so all the unsuccessful teachers of the TEIs have stayed without departments, there is no department - you have conscientiously conscientious. You disappeared, you did it at university level, you joined universities, and there's no department to suggest it. To these teachers, the retired, we are going to cut off the right if they want and if the Senate approves it - because in the Senate they are going - if they meet the standards set by the congress of each university, to make an application for them to be peers. Is that a photographic device?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u476	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Friend, I'll give you a minute. You raised the issues, and the Minister answered. There cannot be a procedure of ministers and parliamentary representatives, because then there is no parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u478	But there is a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u479	Yes, there is. But please, Mr. Castanides, for a minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u480	Mr President, the Minister read a decision of the Athens Court of Appeal. What case, Minister? What case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u481	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u482	I can't hear you. Talk a little more courageous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u483	Mr. Castanides, the Minister cannot answer this procedure. He'll answer later. Please, I run the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u484	Please, can I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u485	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u486	Where there is a decision by the plenary, Minister, of the Council of State, following a pilot trial in which all administrative justice is in conformity, and that is why we have adopted irreversible decisions, there is no Compliance Council. Secondly, you will find yourself in advance of the following situation: it is appointed under Article 73 of Law 4589, for those who have been entitled to the law, in order to classify about 4200. And a kindergartener, who was justified after the entry into force of the law, who has a better order in the ranking table of the ADP, remains undetermined, because that's the way you want it. Do you understand what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Comrade, thank you. Mr. Friend, you have the floor for a minute. Please very much. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u488	For what the Minister said, I would just like to make one comment. The Authority on the camera issue has dealt with the matter and will have its response. With regard to the two-year programme, however, I would like to say that these have been suspended - they have not been abolished - for evaluation. You are basically proposing a abolition of what you have said. When will be an evaluation? After two years? Therefore, remove the freezing, suspension and proceed until September in the evaluation of the programmes. Now you've just argued for dismissal and not parole. I'm sorry. I'm going to the other theme of the university ethos that has emerged. I'm sorry to be in dispute with Mr. Digalakis, whom I appreciate from his presence here. Mr. Digalakis, the departments of the TEIs, which became departments in universities, have remained departments. The responsibility of the TEI department to award the title of the peer professor goes to the university department, which succeeds the TEI department. That's where that responsibility goes. You, with this amendment, remove from the Chamber the competence and take it to the Senate. You're going to tell me: Why is that? I repeat: it's plunging the Internet! Look out. Is this urgent? Retire it and study it. Don't be exposed, because all the conversation for so many days here about academic ethos, autonomy, etc., goes straight. It's a test, Mr. Digalakis, be careful. Keep it and study it. Or I'm afraid we're gonna get into a disveiling process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u491	You're welcome. Minister, just know that this process must stop sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u492	Not twenty seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u493	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Philly, the assessment is mutual. Read the laws. The Departments of TEI have been abolished and others have been established in their place. Teachers, who retired from the Departments of TEIs, have never joined the new departments so that they can apply to become lawmakers. They've been abolished, they don't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u495	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u496	But please, Mr. Friend, we can't! I do not allow it, because then they will not speak to colleagues. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u497	Not a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u498	There is no 'one minute'. Wait a minute, will you, Mr. Minister? Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u499	The departments...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u500	No, please, you did. You can't talk to the minister after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u501	He says evidence he doesn't know. Some department rejected an application to be a peer... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u502	But you can't talk to the minister after that. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot speak immediately after the Minister. This, if it goes on, when will it end? Mrs. Vetta has been waiting for forty-five minutes. Mrs. Kallipe Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u503	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Ministry of Education bill is indicative of how the government is dealing with the whole of it. Full endurance in the demands of private interests, hefty neoliberalism, violation of rights, refusal to dialogue and disobedience to any public, socially beneficial and progressive. We have all seen in recent weeks that there are important signs of friction and confrontation, where all branches are opposed in a convincing and documented manner. We have seen it in the consultation which has been carried out in a rough and hasty manner. We have seen it in the committees, in the plenary, in the public debate and even in the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. Everywhere objects, objections, protests, as we had today outside the House, resolutions, memos on the provisions of the bill, on the protection of personal data, on financing, on redundancies, on the side of Article 16, and so many other issues. The educational community, in its overwhelming majority, considers, for reasons of principle and substance, that this bill is counterbalanced by its democratic principles, full and unobstructed and adequately funded access to education. The only applause for the government came from the owners of private schools and the owners of great care. All the others are either calling upon her to withdraw the bill as a whole or the many and problematic provisions. The government, on the other hand, does not feel isolated thanks to its arrogance, because the owners of private education and misconduct are its natural allies. They want to satisfy, and unfortunately for the rest, they do. I am explaining why I consider this draft law to be undemocratic and neoliberal. Is it undemocratic, ladies and gentlemen, to measure the increase in the number of pupils in kindergartens and primary schools in twenty-five of twenty-two legislated by SYRIZA? It is, because it will cause a deterioration in the quality of courses for hundreds of thousands of students and the loss of thousands of jobs for teachers and nurses. The next provision, which I would like to raise, is the issue bank, from which the educational community has very unpleasant memories. I would remind you that in 2013-2014 around 25% of students were re-examined, as the increased difficulty of issues led to school failure. The argument we have heard these days that the unprecedented school failure of that year is due to the way in which promotion is calculated is out of reality because everyone knows that the increased difficulty of issues was the determining factor in school failure. The school failure in turn was driving where else? - care centres and private misconduct or even worse in school leakage. The next issue, which appears to be the conservative dimension of the bill, is the abolition of sociology. With this option, thousands of people who want to enter a school of social science will not be considered in a course of interest, but in another course, while at the same time the critical thought of tomorrow's citizens is diminished. My assessment is that this is the second one. Moreover, as the poem says: 'in mind is the objective'. Anything critical, creative that challenges, provokes and restores is rejected and ridiculed. Persistent and dying citizens, the citizens who bend their heads in the doctrine of "law and order" are the ideal standard citizen or - I should say - a citizen. I'm continuing with the reintroduction of filing of the dismissals. You mentioned that school reality requires a multi-faceted approach, including the behaviour that should also be assessed. This is, I think, a legal measure which will, in practice, be circumvented. Already in the public debate, it has been slain and rejected. Modern schools are supported by funding, recruitment of educational and innovative actions. Restoring the conduct is a fantasy of compliance and obedience and a node at the far right audience. If you really want to deal with the problem, hire psychologists, sociologists, social workers in education. This would be the upgrading of the school community and not the reintroduction of the conduct. It is a stigma that will follow, saving young people and young people in their lives, as he says, by blaming you indirectly the report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I would like to mention briefly one of the many other problematic and anti-democratic aspects of the bill, such as the elitist approach to school standards, the increase in the education courses in high school from four to seven, the abolition of a thematic week, the penalty instead of a premium for teachers, who do not accept appointments, because of financial difficulties, the reintroduction of the punishing assessment for teachers. All this validates my initial assumption that the bill is undemocratic and neoliberal. In conclusion, I should like to mention that SYRIZA, with the increase in expenditure on education and research, the two-year compulsory pre-school education, the full-day primary school, the abolition of examinations at high school, the change in the system of admission to universities, the abolition of the theme bank, the appointments to education after a decade of stagnation and redundancies, laid the foundations for a modern education, which respects the student and teacher. On the contrary, today's bill is a conservative anti-educational bill, which, apart from private schools and major schools, has managed to take out the entire educational community on the streets. I would invite you to reconsider and withdraw it. I think it's pointless. You are interested in privatisation everywhere, in energy in education, and already in water. With the promotion of the aragona you will proceed a little further, resting on the laurels, which create your friendly media. However, the tolerance from society is gradually ending and your arrogance will be the first to be beaten before your coming and certain fall. But until then, I hope that the blow to Greek society will not be irreparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u504	Thank you for the time. Mr Zeishis Jieskalaya from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u505	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by repeating what the Prime Minister said in his speech today from this Step forward that the most important political event in recent days is the signing of the agreement between Greece and Italy on the establishment of exclusive economic zones. It is a great success of Greek diplomacy. We hope that it will be a precursor to other successes with other neighbouring countries, which will lead not only to ensuring peace in the region but also to defend and safeguard our national sovereign rights. The Ministry of Education's bill on the upgrading of school is democratic, reformist and progressive. Its main feature is the consequence of the commitment from November 2018, when we submitted it with our government programme and approved by the Greek people in the July 2019 elections. All the arrangements come by law and not as they have so far been with ministerial decisions or circulars. Changes are up from kindergarten. It is characterized by its extroversion and by its open horizons. For the first time at last, we create foreign language departments in the Greek universities. Care is taken to teach the Greek, not only in these Greek-language departments, but also in Greek-language schools abroad. Laboratory skills are important with the thematic cycles "I live best", "I care for the environment", "I am interested and active", "I make and innovative". In high school, the lessons examined, from four, become seven, added to ancient Greek, English and biology. More emphasis is given to information technology, skills are cultivated and children are given an ecological awareness. It is a good thing that the theme bank's entry is very positive. It ensures the quality upgrade with the coverage of the curriculum, which is ensured to be taught throughout the country. The teacher will be able to choose 50% of the issues from the bank and 50% with a free choice. Also, the class counter is a contribution to general education, because we want students in secondary education to acquire general education. The proceedings under Article 5 shall be resumed. We believe that conduct is of a pedagogical nature and is consistent with the constitutional requirement for the formation of free citizens. It introduces the course of political education through examination through research work. Scientific fields become four. The measurement of the decontamination, which is correct and which returns the gravity factors to the two courses for directions, is abolished. Actions to improve the work of the school unit are the introduction of the school counsellor, which will be the one managing crises in relations between pupils, teachers and parents. A large part of the funds described between Articles 28 and 34 is the creation of the pilot and experimental schools. Twenty-eight school models are created and thirty-four experimentally since September. School models are consistent in our firm faith in excellence, at all levels, while experimental schools show that we believe in progress, reform, and we want to test new teaching methods. We ensure that teachers and schools are self-assessed. Ensure that the gaps are covered, inter alia, in two ways. By double moleculosis in unprocessed schools and by the penalty - let us say - of the exclusion of two years from those teachers who resign from a position they had chosen. Another element, which shows our faith in progress and equality upwards, rather than in leveling down - as the Left unfortunately believes - for education is the introduction to the HEIs of schools that are distinguished. We support parallel support with direct sub-delegation to full-time assistants. As far as the relocations are concerned, we are making improvements on one hand to academic criteria. To go to a school he wants, he won't be able to have under two thousand seven hundred units. This also ensures that regional universities are strengthened. In the socio-economic criteria, we are changing the range of molecules from 0 to 12 000 euros. For example, from zero to 3,000 euros a year, it takes six molecules. In the last category, they get down to two. The income is calculated for the last three years, to be fairer. We give the opportunity to those who did not get a transcription the first time they sought it, to achieve it with the second cycle of transcriptions, based on the relevance of the cognitive object. With regard to the choices of the Republican authorities, we believe that we believe in the prevention of conflicts and in unity, and that the term of office will be four years, so that the rector authorities can make better use of them. We are strengthening Greek-language education abroad, because we believe in the challenging universal Hellenism. There are now, not second and third, but fourth generation Greeks, who are very important to learn the native language. We support volunteering, road safety, dependency prevention and we take care of sexual education. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is somewhere between myth and reality what we heard from young people, that perhaps for one vote it was not the Greek language, the official language of the United States of America. I do not know whether it is true or not, however, whether we like English or not is global. It is not a question of caring for tomorrow of today's babies, children and young people, without having to learn English perfectly. So we introduce English in a special way, more like a game and first contact from the kindergarten. That is why we are setting up foreign-language departments in the Greek universities, something very important. We remember the late 1960s, the 1970s and half the 1980s, Greek universities had many thousands of students from the Middle East and Africa. They do not come to Greece, firstly because the Greek language is difficult, secondly because we are an accurate country and thirdly because in many schools the level of study has fallen. We believe that by this measure, very soon, many thousands of students from the surrounding countries, who are now in the Balkan countries and central European countries, will return to the Greek universities, because many people prefer our culture, our culture and lifestyle, which has many common points with our own. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Ministry of Education and, in particular, the State Secretary responsible, Mr Zacharakis, for the immediate satisfaction of my request for the establishment of an EPA in Kastoria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, too. Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, more than ever, we need an educational system based on data, to contribute to the country's productive reconstruction, to be qualitative and competitive on the international stage. Unfortunately, the draft law of the Ministry of Education does not correspond either to the needs of the time, nor to the expectations of the students, but also to Greek society. At a time when broad consensus is needed to decide what education we ultimately want, you refuse any understanding in a national education strategy, making 2011 seem so distant in our memory, which you also confirmed with your refusal to do in the proposals, which we did throughout the whole debate, but also a short time ago in the amendments that we tabled. But what are the data we're talking about? Higher education pupils have a lower performance than the OECD average in the Pisa competition on the three basic skills considered. Participation in vocational education remains by seven percentage points below the European Commission average and less than 1% of teachers are under thirty, with wages below those of most OECD countries. We therefore need courage and determination for deep areas across all the pillars of education, structure and administration, curricula and teaching methods, human resources, that is, teachers and teachers. As long as her public education and human resources remain locked in prejudices, but also strangles of the past, the attempt to privatise education will find fertile ground, especially in your government. That is why we in PASOK, in time and constant terms, support the reforms that underpin public education. We have created and supported the institution of the full-day municipality, the introduction of a flexible zone, health education, environmental education and cultural activities. We designed to strengthen public school with programs that give language and information certification to students in high school. All you do is settle the fees of members who participate in these tests. In our policy of digital school, but also in the social and personal responsibility of teachers, the effort to continue teaching was based during the pandemic period. What did you really do, ladies and Minister? Public relations, acceptance of donations, agreement with a private company on distance education and, of course, the introduction of the camera into school class. Your proposal today is the downgraded school of SYRIZA - ANEL, since the program of the new school that we created was undermined and abolished by the previous government. You, Minister, what do you propose to us to upgrade the school? To put Latin in the position of sociology, to make three of four young people the III high school guidance teams and to restore conduct. We believe that the educational and educational nature of high school should not continue to be undermined. The distortion of Greek education, which is fully reflected in the process of introducing higher education, must be stopped. We are firmly in favour of the high school issue bank, but your proposal is general and has no connection with the national disinfection centre. We believe in strengthening technical vocational education, creating new branches and specialities, which will be linked to the country's productive priorities. It is an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to create standards or experimental vocational education schools in each region, which will really be linked to local needs, so that the new generation can acquire substantial knowledge and skills. There is a request from 2017 from the educational institutions and municipalities of Ilia. Since I'm talking about my area, is it true about the evaluation of the departments you suspended, including the sciences of Physical Education and Sport at the Tower? I ask, because at the same time as we have no information, we see the members of the New Democracy from Laconia claim by letters and requests that the department be set up in Sparta, we do not know on what terms, what procedures and what criteria and what criteria, and you should make this clear. You are right to highlight permanent recruitments to Special Education. In fact, I saw the triumphant announcement last night. But what about the CEDEFOPs and ERICs, really? Mother of Elias called me and told me that she waited 15 months, that is three months before you came to the government, that her child should be examined in malformation and malformation, and that she had not been invited by a local KNSS because they have no philology. Will he give us an answer about that? For candles, even late, you bring a provision that little relieves ten thousand professionals who lost half a year. They didn't open up the time we're talking, they're having serious problems and they don't know what's going to happen in September. You are changing the terms of the elections at the university at the end of the day, the other teaching and educational staff are excluded and, of course, the administrative staff. At the same time, in a thousand five hundred university employees, you know that, Minister, a grant is claimed after 15 years of benefit - really, what do you intend to do about it? Because you have no clear attitude - rather than an update of the institution, with the full recording of all structures, you stick to the organograms and the description of positions, causing reasonable concern for your intentions. No reference to the forty-five public libraries, which operate only with seconded teachers and not librarians. Of course, for the amendment to the Greek, since the Ancient Greeks are at the heart of the bill, I would like to make a suggestion to the relevant Minister: 'Kritton speaks slowly', with all that we have heard about investment in the Greek and what we have not seen until today. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill that finds set-ups, arrangements and provisions, which annulling the rules, which the bill itself lays down cannot be advertised as an incision to the battle of excellence, unless excellence is a privilege rather than a possibility. Unfortunately for our country, after the SYRIZA's iso-depressive policy on education, it seems paradoxical that the New Democracy policy is also a policy of management rather than real changes. The conservative party does not really believe in a school that will form responsible, thinking, cultivated and sensitive citizens. Not only does the government have a vision of education, but it does not even have a strategy for the country's social and productive reconstruction. This gives us every legitimacy to vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr Katrin, and for the time. Now Mrs Panagiota Dunia has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a multi-branded project of the Ministry of Education, which brings significant changes to all levels of education and shows in the clearest terms the philosophy of this government for education and education in general. It is a philosophy that wants a school of modernity, which provides students with a global education, so that they can meet the needs and challenges of the time and take advantage of the opportunities that will be given to them later in their lives, a school where students are encouraged to cultivate their gifts and to excell, in whatever area they are inclined and, above all, a school away from sterile knowledge and memorisation, without reflection. The element of innovation in this new design of schools by the Government of New Democracy is evident by introducing skills workshops into kindergartens, primary and high school from the coming school year. The four thematic cycles in which these workshops are organised are of great interest. Their individual thematics now, such as volunteering, ecological consciousness, road safety, prevention of addiction, sexual education, mutual respect and diversity are essential to children's education and they are sure to develop their judgment and sensitivity and that they will in future make them more mature and useful citizens. Creativity and innovation actions, such as youth entrepreneurship, are useful to all young people, regardless of their financial situation, since they can later engage in business or be invited to run a business. Learning how to create, run, organise a business can only do good to it, whether it is once given the opportunity to acquire its own business or not. And that's why he'll bring him in touch with the world of the market and help him grow his organizational skills, elements necessary for any work he chooses later to do. It was now time for such objects to be placed in our schools, objects that we have been talking about for so many years, but we do not dare to include in the school program, let alone in the mandatory timeline, not in some flexible area. It is a pity that their teaching will be done, not only at theoretical, but also at experiential and practical level. Special place between these innovative lessons is road safety for me. This, as has been repeatedly stressed by experts, must be taught to children from a very young age, so that they grow up to be responsible and careful drivers with respect to the Road Traffic Code and, above all, to the value of human life. I also consider the introduction of lessons on ecology and environmental protection to be very important, which we must do a great deal more than say heavy words. Without the cultivation of ecological consciousness to our children, our planet, but also the health and survival of all of us, are really at risk. Particularly encouraging is also the strengthening of the course of physics in schools, with the introduction of a two-hour course throughout high school. Physical education is a lesson, with a great impact on the proper physical and spiritual development of children and should not be underestimated, in any case, especially at a time when children are absorbed by new technologies and are far from physical exercise, often reaching the limits of child obesity. It is still essential that excellence in physics, as in all its other manifestations, is encouraged. Children who are distinguished in sport who are at the level of sport should be strengthened by school, as they are a healthy model for their classmates and society in general. These children are very trying and following a healthy, disciplined way of life. So it would be advisable to have the corresponding state support for sports schools that are actually doing a very important job. A very positive element of the bill, although it has caused reactions, is the engaging of pupils with English, through creative activities, already from the kindergarten, which is the first important step in the educational process. It is a practice that has been in place for fourteen European education systems. Now, it finally comes to our country, since the modern international environment that we live in the excellent knowledge of English is essential whether we like it or not. At the same time, of course, English teaching is also being strengthened in elementary school. Importance for the wider cultivation of our children is, of course, also the introduction of the so-called school countertrain in the third grade. From now on, then, students who want to follow a theoretical direction will also be taught mathematically, while students who want to follow a practical direction will also make history. The aim is, obviously, the overall education of young people and the end of the treatment of the last grade of high school as a prestige for the university. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very hopeful that this bill is still being treated with serious phenomena, such as the intra-school violence with which we parents are, unfortunately, very often faced with. Arrangements, such as the introduction of the schoolteacher, promise to deal with all forms of harassment for our children and to protect their safety. The same attempts to restore students ’ conduct, to ensure a safe school environment for all students through common follow-up of good behavior rules. All pupils must be disciplined in these rules, and of course they must respect their classmates, as they will also be called upon in their later lives to respect certain social and professional rules and to treat their fellow humans well. The Legislation of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs also strengthens the evaluation of the school unit and the educational project produced through the three pillars, collective planning, self-assessment and external evaluation. This three-way course is sure to help a lot of the educational function and significantly improve the quality of the courses provided. We must understand that the evaluation of teachers and their work is by no means a punishment, but it is a good opportunity to recognise and improve their work. The vast majority of our teachers who are doing their job perfectly do not fear their evaluations, on the contrary, seeking to do it, with the confidence that they do their best for children and because they know that through their evaluation their efforts and their great work will be recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, as it becomes clear, we have to vote on a bill attempting to fill gaps, correct past failures and put school and university on a more modern and solid basis. Our schools and universities are being upgraded, made more innovative and geared towards providing our children with essential knowledge and tools that will help them in every step of their further course. They become the bridge that will safely lead our young people to modern society and develop them into more thoughtful and integrated people. We can only welcome this worthwhile effort and contribute in every way to the creation of a new education and education for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u510	Thank you to Mrs. Dunia and waiting for Mrs. Cassimatis from SYRIZA or Mr. Marcos, I will give the floor to Mr. Kegeroglu, because this misunderstanding has been made. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr President. I raised a very serious issue and did not receive due attention from the political leadership. It is the problem of moving four hundred as five hundred candidates in the next few weeks from Crete to Athens. There is no such number as a number concentrated on an island or area that is served only by ferry or air, not to be served by road. These four hundred, five hundred, will therefore be forced, mainly in violation of the rules governing protection from the pandemic, to go to Athens to give special lessons, English, French, Spanish, free design and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u513	I want the response and placement of the political leadership on this serious issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u514	Come on, Mr Marcus, you have the floor. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, Mr Marcos is in the position of Mrs Cassimatis and will speak as long as he comes to his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u515	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact these two days, the extermination of all representatives, parliamentarians, leadership, I wonder if this debate really makes sense now to the leadership of the Ministry of Parliament's interventions. Eighty people, due to the constraints, MPs and MPs were written to speak. And if three hundred had been written, it would still be three hundred unhearing ears. So I wonder what the substance of this parliamentary procedure is as implemented by the Ministry's leadership. I am reading you a text from May 8, 1967: "We are teaching lessons in the Elements of Democratic Pattern at the Middle Education School, and the written examination of this. STOP. Until this lesson's oral score is set, it will not be taken into account. STOP. In anticipated time schedules for the above course, meaning and purpose of the Revolution will be raised to disciples and that this is genuinely Greek, not directed against National parties in accordance with a Order and Programmatic Declarations by President of the Government. STOP’. Telegraphic Order of the Ministry of Education May 5, 1967, ordering the interruption of the course Data of the Democratic Republic. Of course I don't claim, before you're indignant, that we have a dictatorship. We have a democratic government that has been elected democratically. However, you legislate authoritarianly. Throughout the 11 months before and as much as they tried to overthrow your image the friendly media has become clear to the Greek society that you exercise authority in an authoritarian way. But are you going to say that it is possible for authoritarianism to appear in democratic regimes? The answer to this question will be given to the students of the Third High School who have taught sociology and are taught exactly that elements of authoritarianism may appear under certain circumstances and under democratic regimes. So the lesson of sociology is the study of students in democracy, the study of institutions that organize society, the education of pupils in the development of societies and flows that permeate them and shape them is your goal. That's what bothers you. At first, the sociology you categorized it in the left sciences. Of course, there are no left-wing and right-wing sciences. This is a post - civil syndrome and attitudes that you find difficult to expel. But if, as it seems, they cannot be expelled, let them talk to the Prime Minister, who in the well-advertised CV, one of the best on the ground, says he studied social sciences. We have two possibilities. Whether social sciences don't do the man left or Mr. Mitsotakis was not studying and he didn't understand his university courses enough, which I really don't think is the case. Then you resorted to a political wickedness. You tried to degrade the essence of the arguments of social sciences by a trick that it is a conflict of social sciences and philosophers. You went to build social automation. That doesn't exist either. This is not the case. We have two cognitive objects to choose between, essentially, both, and there must be no dispute. What could be done? Educational and scientific self-evident. Maintain the Sociology course as a pan-ellanic test for admission to social science schools, with the right to choose students between Latin and Sociology. Simple logic. It was proposed by the school jewelers, the presidents of university departments, OLEME, from all the parties in Parliament except yours. Your idealism, however, to eliminate social sciences from your high school has been blinded and you cannot discern educationally just and correct the above proposal. Lessons such as Sociology, Modern World and Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, teach a student to be a citizen, to question, judge, seek and make choices. Minister - and indeed with honest talk to you - you constantly maintain the concept of half-truth in your information. Don't leave a trace like a minister who was misinforming. You're saying that the sociology is maintained. You know it's not real. Only the First High School Policy already in existence and reduced from three to two hours. This is political education and sociology. Proposal of the last minute. Make this change for the selection of students in Latin and Sociology, depending on the selection of schools. We are now coming to the elections for the Republican authorities. You are not listening to Mr Gerapetti, yours, who says there is a problem of constitutionality because teaching staff the EIF, SPD, are teaching staff. You do not hear Mr. Chrysanthakis, Professor at the University of Athens, who has given an opinion since 2013 that when the editorial legislator refers to other educational staff, it is not limited to the other grades, except first grade teachers, but includes in the field of regulation and special educational staff. Finally, for reasons of time, I will tell you that the EICs are real elements, Mr Digalakis, you know that very well, of the essence of university teaching. The assembly of the department concerned shall decide the academic unit, as regards their recruitment, their judgment, their qualifications, which are academic and not administrative. Therefore, it does not apply that it should be outside the elections. In fact, as Nikos Alivizatos points out, the principle of full self-government of the institutions also takes over the administrative staff of the institutions. Let us come to conduct. There's been so much. I have the feeling that the Prime Minister in his speech a little earlier has shown that he is somehow aware of the tragic situation in this report and if I am not mistaken, he has described that 'we will see how it will be formulated'. Show courage, recognize the mistake and completely withdraw this device. And the decision of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament was a trick in this matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally - in a minute's time - bring in a provision which defines the Department of University Clinics and Laboratories and that they cannot be candidates for teachers who do not have three years to leave the university. You reported that the earlier provision, ours, was photographic. Who are you photographing now? Isn't that photographic? Who are you photographing? You are even underestimating university teachers who are already in the address position cannot continue for two years. Be careful, because Mr. Kastanidis also referred to legislation. Here, since 2017, the Administrative Court of Thessaloniki has cancelled such a procedure. I'll put it down for the record. Add something that's simple again, that makes sense. Our proposal is: Add those who are currently directors of clinics and laboratories. Don't underestimate mature people and scientists. Because you're excellent. What good? Mr. Lulis is a cylindrical graduate. The commander of the NSA has postgraduate music. Undersecretary of National Defense, no one knows what he's postgraduate. Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs, no degrees. He was just lying. O President of the Hellenic Foundation of Culture postgraduate predator. Postgraduate employees, not university graduates. This excellence, you ambassador! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u516	The floor now has Mr Panagis Cappatos from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr Secretaries, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs provoked a series of fundamental projects for us again. We have talked about the inequalities that education is facing and the ideas with which they can be alleviated. We wondered how education is being strengthened to enable young children to be completed as citizens. We stressed that real excellence means the satisfaction of becoming through hard work every day better and we have highlighted social justice as the ability of every Greek citizen, even if he fails at some point in his life, to be able to take the future back into his hands. This is precisely the role of our educational policy, a public school of modern and quality, capable of offering real education but also useful social and professional skills, of forming citizens free and responsible, of transmitting the provisions of virtue in knowledge of right and wrong, good and bad, unnecessary and necessary. It is ultimately a policy that is naturally shaped from the bottom up, which is not imposed but codecision and naturally puts the student at the centre of her interest. The draft law entitled 'Enlargement of the school and other provisions' is set out in three main axes. The first relates to the reform of the school curricula, the second to specific interventions in support of the school education project. The third axis includes organisational and improvemental arrangements in higher education. We are therefore talking about a modern conception of the direction that the school wants to develop, incorporating tools and actions such as those of skill labs, because it is true that we want our children to develop technology and learning skills that are at the threat of digital illiteracy. We want all the students and students of the public school to participate actively in the class and traditions of the courses, and of course we trust the Greek teacher and the race that he every day pays. That is why we are seeking to assess teachers and teachers to work positively and to strengthen their role as teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me here a special reference to my country, Kefalonia and Ithaca. Following the incorporation of the Ionian Islands TEI at the Ionian University, three university departments came in Kefalonia, the Department of Digital Instruments and Communications, which is impressed with the speed of its development and the number of its students, higher in number of importers than any other section of the Foundation. The Department of Food Science and Technology with a cognitive subject and a scientific staff who can offer so much in the agricultural sector of our islands. And finally, the Department of National Ombudsmanship as a follow-up to the Department of Audio and Musical Institutions in Lixouri, who has so much been devastated in the name of a so-called opposition. How can the inspiration of SYRIZA argue that a section is closed when this has not even been put into operation? How, of course, could such an argument be logically put to the people of Lixouri and Palis? A part which did not work is therefore impossible to remove. Lexiri is located on the map of Greek higher education since 1915, except for two black periods, during the period '79-99, when the Higher Vallimios Professional School was closed unnecessarily without becoming a TEI and secondly in the period of 2018, when the Department of Audio Technology and Music Institutions of the then TEI of the Ionian Islands was unintentionally closed during the TEI absorption process by the Ionian University. Typical with Law 4559/18 was founded in Lixory, Department of National Ombudsmanship of the Ionian University. The section’s operation was suspended in 2019 until its viability was established. The viability of the department is a great questioning issue mainly because of its strong theoretical object. It is characteristic that the corresponding sections of the world are only three in Los Angeles, London and Vienna. The Department of Nationalism of the Ionian University would not be one of the first in the world, but a failed attempt. The Department of Audio and Music Institutions of the Ionian Islands TEI was unique in its object with 90% absorption of its graduates in the labour market, particularly in the midst of the financial crisis of 2010-19. The object was a level engineer, and specifically saw the objects of sound and musical instruments exclusively from their technological construction side. Today there is no corresponding section or object in Greek higher education and therefore the established needs of the Greek market cannot be cured. In its more than seventeen-year course, it was evaluated by external assessors in the evaluations of higher education departments, which was supervised by the then PPP with excellent results. Similarly exceptional was the evaluation of the department in the context of the external evaluation of the Ionian Islands TEI. However, in the light of the quality rules the National Higher Education Authority establishes, it is more than possible to reconstitute it or to relocate a department that has both facilities and equipment, as well as staff are capable of supporting this effort. The bilingualism of the anti-population forces trying to avoid their responsibilities is something that does not concern us and we are fighting against. At the same time, I raise the issue from the Step of the Greek Parliament to the leadership of the Ministry of Education, so that we can work together in a specific direction. After all, this is the essence of policy from the bottom up, a principle that this bill serves and promotes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u518	Thank you for your time. Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u519	We are talking today about a draft law that has mobilised reactions from the whole educational community of all political shades, a draft law that accurately illustrates the different aspects of the New Democracy, other provisions of a proverbial sloppy and right-wing ideal, elsewhere supposedly innovations and innovations taken out of the Ilostrian marketing of private schools and elsewhere we put the market out of the window as you dreamed to do for years, but you have avoided going into detail. In Article 2, you enter English at the kindergarten, probably because you were convinced it looks quite innovative and modernistic. Only this is an optional and unscientific, rejected by pre-school practitioners. Preschools are not primary schools and education in them is quite different. It is holistic, interactive, multifaceted, with no teaching objects enclosed that require qualified teaching. In addition, children in kindergarten need a specific reference person at this stage of education. A third person, without even knowledge of the specificities of infant education, will break the educational process. Preschool education socializes, develops emotional intelligence, teaches children how to behave, how to move in the space. The acquisition of specialized knowledge is for older ages. On the other hand, in Article 50, you increase the maximum number of infants and adolescents to twenty - five children per section. On SYRIZA, the maximum number of pupils per department was reduced to twenty-two. Also, raise the maximum number of pupils per department in primary schools at twenty-five. So here, I imagine we are running out of innovations and coming back to what is known as anti-educational methods to reduce the positions of teachers at the expense of pupils and educational work. And let us not say about the scale of the social distance measures. In Article 5, which refers to the indication of the conduct of qualifications. This is an unacceptable, anachronistic, unscientific change of neo-conservative character and a punishment for mood. Is it possible now to do that we are ignoring the peculiarity of teenage personality? How are we going to allow the actions of a teenager, which usually seem to be insignificant to us, the behaviour of a teenager can face problems of adaptation to the school environment, problems of integration into society, problems of family or other problems, all of which can be pointed at him in his adult life when even the courts recognize lightly and different treatment at that age? How is a period when personality is still boasted and shaped to determine the life of an adult? With what right do you perpetuate in time a stigmatization that may be due to a man’s difficult life? Nor can such a change ultimately work dissuasively. It is not possible for the child to measure any consequences of maladministration in his life after years. A negative assessment of conduct may be given to a disengaged student who reacts to intimidation and discrimination practices, to a teenage child who discovers his LGBTQ identity, to a student who is isolated or who faces serious problems outside school. What are you doing? You're making criminal juvenile records? Do these fit in 21st-century pedagogical? Do not turn us into a time when a secondary school graduate who goes to claim a TE position will in future be able to lose this post if a second post-graduate criterion has entered the conduct. In Article 7, you are attacking the social sciences and graduates of these schools. Eliminate Sociology from the universally tested courses and as a general education course in High School III. You're abolishing social science classes in the second grade. The extremism of sociology and social sciences is the result of a graphic bias by those that grow in the unmistakable components of the New Democracy that, like post-war rangers, identify sociology with the left or communism, as we have heard from your Vice-President. The teaching of the social sciences studied by Mr. Mitsotakis, I remind you, is fundamental to the understanding of the world in which our young people will live and there must also be as a lesson in general education. Knowledge of the social phenomena, understanding what is needed to function in a coherent society, how do discrimination, violence, such as intra-school violence, appear to be such an inappropriate knowledge for students and students? Let us say the facts of our day in the United States, how much would the basic knowledge of sociology help to understand racism, indignation, stereotypes, prejudices and, ultimately, structural violence, such as social sciences, which are carried out in the members of minorities subject to racism? Our society, not only in Greece, but also in Europe, is becoming more and more complex. The problems are increasingly complex, and it is of paramount importance that we give young people the means to understand how the world works around us. We need us, they also need to understand their social surroundings, learn to seek explanations of social phenomena, about things that seem absurd to them, twist them or anger them. In addition, the schools of the First Group are social science schools in their vast majority and include training schools in them. If your criterion is that there are Latin terms in law, then you should also ask Latin for entry into medicine, pharmacodynamics and, possibly, agronomics. In any case as the choice between Biology and Mathematics in the 2nd group is given, so you could give the choice between Latin and Sociology. In Article 9, bring the bank back classified difficulty issues. Last time you established it in the Samara-Venizelos co-government in 2014, both the performance of the promotional tests fell from 4% to 23%. It is the joy of caregivers, while it promotes only memorization and mechanical memorization. Even worse, he throws the students out of school because of school failure and pushes them to the IEKs for apprenticeship. Select expected hostile for the weakest students. Instead of mobilising them and improving their performance and completing secondary education, they are discouraged and pushed out. With Article 68 for the body of chosen rectors and the corresponding articles on the promotion of cosmopolitan and presiding departments, you deny the right to whole categories of teachers from universities to have a say in the selection of the heads of departments, sectors and schools. The hierarchy instead of democracy. Ideas are evident once again. Finally, with Chapter III on foreignlanguage curriculum programmes, we fear that you will reveal a methodological approach to bypassing Article 16 of the Constitution. They will obviously be directed at foreigners, only that it will be difficult for such a provision to stand up to administrative justice and that discrimination will be lifted. This is how we will lead to two educational systems. In one he'll enter a full-fledged, the other with your money. The enthusiastic desire of the supporters of false excellence. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are being self-suffering as defenders of excellence, having made it possible for you in just eleven months of governance to provoke the full moon with a series of ministers and government officials to appear inexistently. You show yourself as defenders of innovation, however, your bill smells naphthalene and turns us many decades back. You are regressing and conservative, against the real needs of society and especially of the new generation. We leave you alone in your darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u520	Now Mr Maravegias Konstantinos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u521	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the debate on the Ministry of Education's bill is another proof that in our country the demands of simple logic are not at all obvious. Unfortunately, in this debate a lot of common sense is not considered self-proof. And that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, did not start now that you are in the chairs of Anti-Population, but from the days of your governance, when at the end of your term you decided to upgrade the country's TEIs to Higher Education Institutions without ever clarifying what professional rights the graduates of these schools would have. It is therefore highly hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, that you are now being cut off for the curriculum of these schools, when these programmes are empty. You left all this work for the next, a sample of the clipboard way you have learned to deal with even the most serious things. In fact, you deny reasoning and in general deny the ability to be operational. We had a recent sample of all this writing when we discovered Big Brother with modern tele-education in public schools. The live teaching of students via the Internet you say it violates the personal data of participants in public education. I would remind you, however, that in the private schools almost since the beginning of the coronary pandemic such tele-education services were provided to students of several classes and were so successful that the other parents whose children initially did not have access, asked for the extension of the measure to all schools and to all levels. This is also an indirect proof of who is being cut out for the benefit of a few and not many. It is a pity that you cannot monitor modern technological developments, even for widespread applications, such as tele-education, used in advanced countries for decades. Even in Africa, tele-education has gone on. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on another self-evident initiative, which is also denounced by SYRIZA, and I am referring to the pilot introduction to preschool activities in English. And here it turns out that the conquests of enlightenment are not obvious for all of us and all of our colleagues. In particular, I would like to remind you of the position of his colleague in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, who said that he was indebted by this obvious and beneficial programme for infants. In fact, she also discovered an American finger in this pilot action, which is certainly due to an international conspiracy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that such objections are not only from the parliamentary level that citizens are asking for from us, but also from the minimum requirements of good speech for people living in a modern society. For example, who can have in Greece 2020 by imposing the '10' base on the promotion of pupils. Can anyone in Europe of the 21st century refuse foreign-language programmes of undergraduate studies in Greek AEI? Didn't we need foreign students in our country? Do we not want the tuition fees and the general income that they bring to local communities? Are you not content with supporting your feet and for another ten years will it remain the same as Article 16? It's obvious you're very satisfied with this. Somewhere, however, we will all have to find a common point of contact with reality. Madam Minister, on the occasion of today's debate I would also like to raise a number of specific issues which have been notified to you and which have been served. The first concerns the demand for teachers, parents, people with special needs for their priority placement at their place of residence. It is just and extremely necessary, as it concerns family stability and, in particular, the protection of minors with very serious disabilities. The second theme is with the apprenticeship of the PASA computers of the New Ionia of Volos. You know that in Magnesia we look forward to its bureaucratic dismissal from the Ministry of Education. In conclusion, I would like to thank the co-legislative ministries for two amendments which have adopted relevant reports in the House, including my own. The first is the amendment by the Ministry of Education, which in its last article sets out the payment of exceptional financial support of EUR 700 because of the Coronovirus epidemic to students who are in the process of apprenticeship. It is a fair and necessary aid, which young people should not be deprived of, and I am glad that the government is responding so directly to parliamentary scrutiny. As far as the second amendment is concerned, the possibility of extending or terminating rental contracts is very important for the Ministry of the Interior for School Cuisines. Again I am delighted that the relevant Minister, Mr Theodorikos, responds not only to Members' requests but to social issues relating to the schools of the whole country and a large part of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u522	Thank you very much for keeping time. You are an example of imitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u523	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u524	You left some time for Mrs Karamanlis, than I understand. So now Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy. After Mrs Karamanlis, the State Secretary, Mrs Zacharaki, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr President. The bill that we are discussing these two days is moving within the framework of our programme and our policy for quality and effective education, for an education that we consider to be the largest investment in our country. The importance of education in modern times is extremely great, as this is a good thing necessary for the development and progress of society as a whole, for the completion of each individual human being and above all for the correction of unfair inequalities. Today where values and culture are shaken deep, education becomes even greater, because it can act as a driving force for deep and radical change, but also as a refuge for the tested modern man. The general approach of the bill is upward, with the aim of students, regardless of financial capacity, to have equal opportunities in the beginning of their lives and access to a modern and quality public school, which will offer global knowledge and special life skills, creating them in free and useful for civil society. We show our confidence in public education, and that is why our priority is to strengthen its quality and effectiveness in an internationally changing environment and in the field of knowledge. One of the priorities of our educational policy is a modern public school, which is a creative hive of knowledge and innovation, a school of modern and quality, which will encourage, reward and support the love of knowledge and effort. As part of this priority, skill workshops from preschool to high school are piloted, with the aim of making better use of knowledge, improving youth adaptability in a constantly changing environment, developing social empathy and responsibility, creative thinking and initiative. By cultivating mild activities from a very young age on subjects such as volunteering, security, prevention of dependency, mutual respect, diversity, encouragement of teamwork, critical thinking, initiative and creativity. Introducing in kindergarten students with English through creative activities at an age, preschool, where they lay the foundations of learning all mental processes, getting children multiple cognitive benefits. We have heard from colleagues from the SYRIZA that it is an anti-educational measure, that we are serving American interests. Where does this come from? In conspiracy you are first, but you are divorced from the truth and society has been removed from you. The Minister has repeatedly presented evidence that this measure is being implemented with great success in fourteen countries. The teaching of courses, such as computers, by cultivating digital skills and classic letters, is also strengthened. The methods for assessing the progress of pupils are broadened. The bank is set up in high school for classified issues. It introduces the logic of course countermeasures and all the above as part of the culture of personal responsibility for the student and the establishment of an educational environment that will prevent relaxation, strengthen healthy competition, self-assurance and self-assessment, with continuous work and effort and similar reward. Homer in Iliad states: "Always adorn, exceed others, honor your fatherhood." The excellence through this saying refers to bravery, majesty, honor and manhood in battle. In the Ancient Greek Secretariat we find the concept of "excellence" to be broadened and conceptually linked to virtue, with everything that is good, good, optimal and useful. More generally, the misunderstood concept of "excellence" is inextricably linked to the culture of spirit and ethos and, more generally, to the tendency of man to achieve works of fans and deeds of praise. The evaluation of the ethos, behavior and, in general, of the virtues that may govern the life and personality of young people, the culture of imagination and creativity or physical exercise are skills which, in this draft law, are upgraded through the introduction of activities and strengthening of classical letters and physical education, so as to strengthen individual responsibility and the preparation of pupils in order to become good fair and democratic citizens. The institution of standards and experimental schools as islands of excellence and innovation and its role in the design and implementation of differentiated and innovative educational policies shall be strengthened. The institution is linked to the continuous self-assurance of students with talent and particular learning opportunities and the opportunity given to them through examinations have access to essential quality education opportunities, I refer to schools standards, as well as to best educational methods, practices and tools throughout the education system. It is therefore particularly important that the government chooses to start extending standards and experiments from the western Attica. In the context of quality and effective education, all rates of the educational system shall be evaluated. A new framework is established for evaluation including internal evaluation, self-assessment at the level of the school unit and external evaluation and measures are taken to improve the staffing of school units. It is also important to regulate the introduction to higher education of students who have won discrimination in scientific Olympics, rewarding excellence in such competitive fields. As far as higher education is concerned, the objective of our policy is a truly autonomous academic institution, assessed, competitive, modern, extroversion, in common stepping up with the labour market. In the context of these objectives, the extroversion of universities is enhanced by the possibility of establishing foreign-language undergraduate programmes, independently of each HEI and without the need for the approval of the Minister for the establishment of common and dual curricula, between Greek and foreign HEIs, as well as the establishment of summer programmes. In this way, studies are being prepared without the Ministry's suffocating control, the institutions' research activity is being strengthened, new resources are being attracted to state funding, more interconnected with the labour market. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] This is a bill which reflects the need to improve the educational framework at all levels, in order to meet the needs of a continuous, changing, international environment, as high as possible. In conclusion, I mention the saying of Evangelos Papanoutsos: "If true learning is a donation that enlightens the human spirit and reassures his soul, then the lesson also requires the teacher and the students to demonstrate the elements that characterize creation: Innovative and enthusiasm initiative". And, indeed, this bill gives rise to creation, a constant aim for self-improvement and progress and, ultimately, for strengthening democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u526	Thank you. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr Secretary-General, Parliamentary Representatives, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very critical moment. And in time I have to say that I will keep the margin as much as I can, Mr President. I understand everyone's tired. But I wanted you to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u528	We're not tired. We're on regular. Don't be nervous about us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u529	Okay. With respect to time and with full knowledge that tomorrow you will be called upon to vote for a major change, which governs the levels of education, I would also like to have tabled my opinion on this thread which unites all the provisions which the Members of the Greek Parliament will vote on tomorrow. I would, however, like to begin on the basis of our work which, since the first day of taking up the duties, ten months ago, ten months ago, we were here, before you, and we declared our programmes - if you would like - commitment to the Greek Parliament, which you are seeing slowly. They are not exhausted and we still have great scope, as are other legislative initiatives, which you will soon see coming to the Greek Parliament, yes, for vocational training, with important initiatives as well, for the staff structures, which the Minister has mentioned many times in this House. But, in the light of our work, since the first day of taking up duties, it has been and continues to be the qualitative upgrading, modernisation and recovery of the dynamism of the Greek public school. In this direction we have worked and worked systematically and with sincere respect for the area of education, in this area that does not have any micro-political purposes, nor do Ideas. Allow me, too, to say that in this area there is no place for discounts from the needs of students, the demands of the times, but also for what society needs. In the twenty-first century, and the particular reference that is usually made, so at the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution, what we need as a country is strong educational foundations that will allow our country, Greece, to claim its own special place in the world, in a world of innovation and continuously evolving. Much more is the qualitative upgrading of public education which guarantees active social justice and equal opportunities, that is, the principles which are the foundation of the democratic social contract. Through an intensive effort of many months and challenging moments, and until recently completely unknown situations, such as the ones we have lived with the great overthrow of the coronary, we have tabled our proposal for a school that we believe our country needs. Through public dialogue and consultation, we have put together proposals and other comments that we have received during and after this consultation and debate and we have tried to improve any failures and to achieve the best possible result, as far as possible, in response to the needs of modern public school. Our approach could only be about and run every level of education, starting from preschool education to the last grades of secondary education, we are trying to give a new breath, inspire pupils and teachers. We are choosing to look at the work done in pre-school education, which cannot be static or dehydrated, and - let me tell you - it is not just dependent on the lips and personal inspiration of each kindergarten and every kindergarten. Respecting the particular philosophy and pedagogical method, which must be in complete harmony with the sensitive age of the children of this grade, we attach importance to the special and fundamental value of the public kindergarten's role, a kindergarten which has nothing to be jealous of by private or foreign schools, a kindergarten in which it is cultivated and developed by methods tested and appropriate, the logic and critical thinking of our country's citizens tomorrow. We have heard, for example, over the last few days that during the discussion of the draft law, children's familiarity with foreign languages can also be achieved in other ways. We do not want it to be done in other ways. We want it to be achieved in the playful way, in a form of learning rather than teaching, which the Greek school can ensure, with the presence of kindergarten and kindergarten within the classroom. And all this, in a wealth of stimuli and the development of linguistic sensitivity and perceptions of the individual with methodicity and clear programming. In this sense, we recommend the pilot introduction of activities in English specifically suited to the needs and capabilities of children of this age and the interactive approach, of course, which exists in kindergarten. In the same direction, we are establishing the workshop on new skills. Perhaps it is one of the most characteristic examples of the qualitative difference in the attitude we wish to give to the public school. The suggestion relates to the development of mild skills, which cannot be tackled fragmentally or are exhausted in activities of a timelylyly limited part of the year in question, but are systematically cultivated and now part of the school's timetable. And, of course, as I have said before, neither in one class nor in a training course. It cannot be another vacant hour or a lost school life time, but not even a lesson accompanied by a multi-page school manual, which will be invited to memorize in order for the Ministry of Education's political leadership to say that it has succeeded in introducing an innovation. This effort will be continuous, dynamic, documented and therefore serious. It is necessary, and it is necessary, to specialize in its scientific and pedagogical content by the relevant scientific bodies, who are also responsible for doing so. In designing clearly the critical thinking and cultivation of this is not defined as the content or object of these new skills, as I have wrongly heard it called by several honourable Members within Parliament. The intensification of the student's critical thinking is the question of the whole education process. It is cultivated and developed by all schools, especially when structured and founded on a solid curriculum. At this point it is important to tell you that there is already the starting point of the major changes in curricula and books, which we know are already known to be "run" as IPP procedures, the Institute for Education Policy. The encouragement of every body involved in the educational process of collective effort is through and as a central thinking in this draft law. It is what will lead all the members of the training process to a similar course. It is fundamental for wider social progress that our students are disciplined and addicted to a system in which the personal effort of the individual, his labour is rewarded and rewarded, a system of transparent and aptitude in which the bank of classified difficulties is played, with the necessary corrections to be made. After its last application, I think we have all received the conclusions and received the important messages about what needs to be done to improve them. It is, however, a useful educational tool for education, which forms a wider educational system structured in the principles of merit and transparency, standards, pilot and experimental schools. It is therefore based on the work of restoring and upgrading the role of a special class of schools. This is essentially another aspect of the upgrading of the whole education system, because standards and experimental schools also have the potential to self-assurance the educational system of each country. We have heard with surprise several references to these schools, that it is elite and that the other schools will downgrade. I think that these are dangerous opinions which have nothing to do with educational reality, and of course we are across. Enlargement and optimisation of support for pilot and experimental schools in order to carry out their work is our primary concern and is reflected in all the provisions of this draft law. And I would really like to point out that this reform is not only an elite of students or teachers, as we have heard, but the whole school community in which good practices will be disseminated from the work carried out in these schools. They will be multipliers of good practice. There will be groups within adjacent schools in which children from other schools can participate that do not only go to standards and experimentals, so they act as bodies - multipliers of best practices throughout the region. In this light, one is aware of their vital work and perhaps also of the reasons why these schools were fought so much in the past. I would like to close with the issue of foreign-language education, Greek-language education abroad, a very important point for us because we were electorally committed to strengthening it. It is an area of crucial importance for the government, particularly in view of the new reality, as it has been shaped by the economic crisis which has hit our country, whose mass migration has been outside of tens of thousands of our compatriots. To these people, then, who are far away from the Greek state, it provides the assurance that they are not forgotten or downgrades the educational opportunities offered abroad. Our ties are being strengthened in practice. Equality of opportunity in education concerns all Greeks throughout the world. We don't blame them, we don't separate them. I'd like to say a lot. There is no time and I also respect the Members who are waiting. These are, however, some of the elements that are our view of the direction of our work. This is what we believe is worth every Greek citizen, especially young people and young people of our time and our homeland, in order to stand up for a personal success, but also for the benefit of the wider social group. To know well that there is a generation out there that suffocates to start its own era, demands its future in the field of creation and not past dilemmas that serve no one but those who trade them. Let them start their own time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mrs Cassimatis has the floor from SYRIZA to Mr Marcos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u531	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, before I go to my speech, to express my warmest wishes for good success in the 2020 class, to our children who in a few days have given a full-scale examination after a terrible and unorthodox year due to the global pandemic of the new krone and lockdown that has applied to their schools and who has certainly been negative for every class. We must and we must thank the teachers, teachers, teachers who once again overcrowded themselves, as the years of the monumental austerity have done, and when the dismissal on your governments, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, was rampant over their heads. And then and now they exaggerated themselves to keep the public school standing and students and students at the level of education that was relevant to their age and class. So we owe them a great thank you. As has rightly been said by the Chief of Staff Response, by the President of the SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, and I can confirm that, at this time, the inequalities in terms of tele-education have unfortunately also flourished. I have to tell you that in the second Piraeus, in Perama, in Keratini, in Salamis, in Rente, in Drapetsona, in Nice, in Korydallos was at least 50% of those who could not participate in the training because they did not have the logistics. You have sent documents to find out what these shortcomings are. When you saw that there are too many, orally you informed that two - three tablets would go to each school and that's it. The result is what we know. The fact that the educational process has been interrupted internationally is a great loss with measurable logical consequences, according to ECONOMIST, which is why the states and the co-ordinated states must take steps to bridge this gap and especially those left behind. This very great health crisis has enclosed the world's four-seats in the 21st century and private ideology above all, because this modern plague has proved what the communists, socialists, all the progressive people know, namely, that we all boil in the same cauldron on this planet, that some goods we call it public not because we define them like that by ideoscopy, but because they are. In this crisis, the limits of the system of capitalism and neoliberal globalisation, which has become the same cause for the rapid spread of the virus that kills people massively and kneels the global economy, have also been demonstrated. Even so, you, too, are the most neoliberal version of our political system, which you have had to confess to public health that you wanted to privately, as if you hadn't discussed with the public education, with history, with the old needs that are made opportune and legitimized as non-popularism and now introduce a bill to upgrade school in order to break down public education and public school nonetheless. Don't tell us about your good intentions. They don't even work out. We will not forget that just five months ago you deleted from the selection of teachers for the AACC's exams high academic skills. College graduates with no recognized degrees may participate. Of course, you must tell us, Mrs Kerameau - I have heard Mr Gerapetti's speech on the standards. These people, these graduates will be hired in private schools? Of course not. Will they be hired to standards? Also no. So we understand that one and one do two. Besides, anti-corruption is inherent. An upgraded school with the degradation of teachers' academic qualifications is a proposal that does not stand in the speech. It is also obvious that you have a big problem with Article 16. This article has been defended by fingernails and teeth, and you fight it and you fight it, and that will not fall because society keeps it upright. It is not by chance the anachronistic conduct of a world that, first of all, is not a measure to combat the bowling, it will simply lose through life many children growing in trouble, but are not bullies. And you're almost ironically referring to Article 16 by making a diffusive interpretation that has a huge range. I would say - if I may express myself - that you scare the national delegation when you connect Article 16 to the conduct of world affairs. Why, firstly, do not respect the Constitution - which has again not been revised in relation to Article 16 - when you enter the foreign language departments from the back door for foreigners who know that they will also have the right to register Greeks in accordance with the principle of equality. So you will be invited by things to violate Article 16 and there will be various other consequences. What deplores me, therefore, is that you do not understand the fundamentality of education as a public good. We have spoken of you here, and this is the Step forward in the necessity of university education, that is, science resulting from scientific research, to be public and unconditional without economic dependency, not by ideology, but because that is what is necessary for the earth to be turned around with humans and living beings in harmony. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But it is important to refer to the crowd funding made by the President of the Commission, Mrs Von der Lyen, in order to ensure that the European Union has the necessary millions to gain access to the COVID -19 patents. If the investigation were public, we'd all be safe. And these billions and millions would fall into the economy and reliance on societies. Now they come out of one pocket and go on the other of the riches of globalisation, the large pharmaceuticals that they are themselves shareholders and so on. Meanwhile, citizens are invited to live with 533 euros a month. I'm not going to go into this anymore. Besides, I guess I can't convince you. You are a fascinator of youth entrepreneurship that enters it as a skill - listen, listen! - in schools. Why do you wish to build a state without civilians, a country that will look like a ship without sailors flying, according to Sophocles' relative comparison at "The Oedipus Tyrannos", to be consistent with the theme of the global and local heritage introduced as a skill. Because you are the same bodies ideologically, politically and economically what we call global, global and local, but not national and international, because within the concepts of national and internationalism there may be and can be a blossom of the democratic acquis, accountability, that is, popular sovereignty and therefore social advance. You're not choosing it. As you do not choose national and social memory as a theme that should exist and nurture children for purpose, so that students live with the memory of the games and assume their continuity. Today is the anniversary of the Baptist slaughter by the nazis. There is no such subject of collective claiming on the margins of the history of German corrections, so that the new generation will also become aware of this issue. I will present to you in the Practical Proposals for National and Social Memorandums in the Schools and Education that have been tabled in the public debate by authoritative academics, not to say that they have not been taken into account. However, let me tell you that in a private school program than you are praised for the extra skills, students have cooked at the Miele facilities with a well-known chef, not to say his name now. He divides us into abyss and throws the children in the abyss. Can I have one more minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u532	You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u533	But I would like to reply very quickly to Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u534	Fine, but finish sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u535	Yeah, for a minute. Thank you. His speech referred to historical and educational reforms, where the demand for democratisation was linked to the struggle for better education and preparation of individual and social. He mentioned the educational reform of 1929-32 of Eleftherios Venizelos, the educational reform of Georgios Papandreou in 1964-65, the 1982 framework law for the universities of the government of Andreas Papandreou, while he mentioned passages from speeches of two important forms of Greek educational movement and the municipalization of left-wing and progressive people, such as Dimitris Glenos and Alexandros Delmou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u536	Madam Colleague, you've reached nine minutes and ten seconds. I would ask you to conclude with respect to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u537	I'll be in 30 seconds. He omitted in the reports to say that these reforms were actors in the construction of classical and social sciences. That is what we believe you should do with sociology and Latins, which have been brought back by SYRIZA, and now you are abolishing them, as were before governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u538	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u539	Humanities with social studies are not competitive, they are complementary and you should be aware that in the Latin term clinens from which the word client comes out in English meaning a customer, it is used for those people who are finally dominated. This should not be the future of Greek education and you will not succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u540	Thank you. Mr. Xenophon Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u541	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this bill is the starting point to restore public education, that is, the cornerstone of every state at the centre. With the reforms introduced by the current provisions, the nature of public education is shielded and modernised. The necessary tools are created already by the pre-school level, which will form citizens with Greek education adequately equipped with appropriate skills to respond to a world that is becoming more complex, more demanding and more competitive. We are building - as the Minister has said - the school of alertness with an outward orientation. We invest in today with the look at tomorrow with the pursuit of excellence without equation downwards. Yes for us, ladies and gentlemen, excellence is not a reciprocity, it is the passport for a better future, it is the prerequisite for every child to be able to claim tomorrow under the most prosperous standards. This is precisely what our own school is ambitious to do, to produce free and responsible citizens with knowledge, critical thought, national conscience and morality. This draft law balances harmoniously between the time-consuming advantages of the classical educational process and the use of modern techniques and methods which the educational community, students and parents embraced in the difficult juncture of the pandemic. And on this point let me, ladies and gentlemen, refer to our teachers, to the teachers of our children who have done their duty in the middle of a quarantine, with patriotism and responsibility, and who deserve our congratulations. Sad minorityes are a denial, and the only ones who rush to adopt their rhetoric are the colleagues of the Officerial Response. By analyzing this draft law, I would particularly like to focus on the introduction of the institution of skill workshops, where skills will now be cultivated that prepare the student and form his or her personality fully. As a member of the Special Committee on Road Safety, I am very happy - and I wanted to praise this initiative by the Ministry - for the inclusion of road education in our schools. When almost every year the population of a town is lost by road accidents, education can make a substantial contribution to changing attitudes and establishing a healthy model of road behaviour. In the same context, contact with concepts and practices, such as entrepreneurship and robotics, cultivate and consolidate the new needs of a world that is constantly changing. We are at the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution, of artificial intelligence. The introduction to new technologies from young ages and the connection between school and entrepreneurship is not without. I also think it is equally important that we strengthen the teaching of physical education, that is, that of gymnastics. Last year's European Commissioner's report on the state of health in the European Union lists our children in second place in terms of obesity and smoking. It's a negative first that doesn't honor us. With this bill, we set the foundations to change it. I've heard the fantasy conspiracy theories of Customization. I would like to inform you that we are in favour of language learning. We consider foreign languages necessary and useful. Faced with these unscrupulous and really fun theories, we respond with evidence, research and evidence. It was also presented by the Minister yesterday during her speech. Contacting and familiarizing pre-school children with English is a policy with the most anti-taxial character. Enlargement of language teaching hours in public school can only be for the benefit of our weakest fellow citizens. All children have access to free knowledge. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address two more major issues in this bill. The first is about an injustice that is corrected and the rationalisation of an outbreak of pathogens. The previous government abolished the dual mobilisation of teachers who were serving in difficult areas. We restore this injustice. We are reintroducing double molecules, reducing the duration of the tables to two years from three, which has so far been the case, so that pre-services can be measured more quickly and the qualifications of our teachers can be evaluated accordingly. That's how we achieve a double target. On the one hand, all educational units will be adequately staffed without problems, on the other hand no child will be left without a teacher from the end of the country. The second has to do with an issue that is afflicting hundreds of families and students every year. The streamlining of the criteria for the conversions is a necessary measure to stop the constant confusion and economic bleeding of Greek households. The additional moleculosis of the multitude of families shows the social person of the government who disguises the constant demands of a great category of our fellow citizens. The third has to do with evaluation. For us, evaluation is a prerequisite for improving the educational system. We propose a change, for example, in public education, a comprehensive change in modelling. This is why evaluation is linked to the training of concepts of interdependent and mutual complementarity. The three-dimensional programming, self-assessment, external evaluation is a coherent framework to make our schools and, overall, the educational community the qualitative leap in the future. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, I would like to congratulate you on the uneasy effort that you and your colleagues have personally put into the reforms that we are voting on today in this bill. We prove that public education for the New Democracy Government is the highest priority. We don't go blindly, but we have a vision. We don't want a school on the sidelines but at the edge of developments. We want a school that will hatch Greek citizens who will take our country a step higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u542	Colleague, thank you for the time. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u543	Thank you very much, Mr President. I know it's a long time ago. I think everything has been said. I know that we are all too tired, so I will try to be brief and not go beyond the time limit set. I would like to begin with an event that came to me in memory following the discussions of the last few days. About two years ago, with a very positive initiative, secondary education Magnesia called representatives of the students from all high schools of Magnesia in an amphitheatre to put the political staff of the prefecture to them by putting all the problems of education, as the disciple world of Magnesia experiences them. I think that a common starting point for the very positive initiative was the following. All students first asked for a stable and clearly serious educational system, a stable and serious examination system, which will not change whenever the leadership of the Ministry of Education is changed. I feel, Ms. Keramos, that once again despite any attempt you have made, good faith, as National Representation, we are disappointing this disciple world. Reclaim the Reformer's title but there is a sum of experimental provisions. The second thing I would like to comment on is this. I was impressed, Mrs. Keramea, that you said that the articles and provisions of this bill had the logic from the bottom up. But if that were the case then I think that should be the result of the following simple equation. First of all, it should have been a serious consultation with all educational bodies, parents' trade unions, the academic community, and all these provisions would have been a product of this consultation. If, then, you really heard all these bodies and the whole world, I think there would be no provisions in the bill dealing with the matter bank, neither with conduct, nor with the question of introducing English into kindergartens. I have just heard a dear colleague from Magnesia saying that the subject of conduct is linked to common sense. Look at that. Common sense exists in 2020. Common sense existed both in 1920 and in 1930. Depends on what time each one lives. Why don’t you tell me that the subject of conduct creates or introduces or forms a modern school. If you believe that, then bring back the student apron, reintroduce the wooden bead, forbid us to write left and all the students to the right. In other words, I do not think that the conduct is directed at a modern Greek school. On the issue of English in kindergartens in the country, I hear the arguments in favour of this provision, regardless of whether the scientific community has a different opinion. I think that this provision was not warmly welcomed. I have a very simple question. With what cognitive supplies will the graduates of English literature undertake to learn English to the children who enter the classes of kindergarten? Don't you think, Minister, that somehow the graduates of the university preschool education and education departments are being smacked? Why don't you listen to the presidents of the pedagogical departments? You say all day and also in the past days that we are trying to copy the best international educational standards. That is good, but don't tell me that by bringing the students up from twenty-two to twenty-five in every class - which means that we want to reduce teachers - we are copying some best European standard. Now let's go to the matter bank. Do not wonder if in the coming years, by reintroducing an anachronistic arrangement, there will still be students who will confuse the 28th of October 1940 with the 25th of March 1821. Everyone memorizes, nobody focuses on knowledge and real learning. This is the reality, as is extracted from the institutions of society, through the students themselves. I, Mr. Ministers, graduated from the Department of Political Sciences of the Panteion University. A class of insignificant school in relation to the people you've learned to converse with, Harvard graduates, and it doesn't fit in. I would therefore like to ask a question as a political scientist to the political scientist Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I want to understand whether he really feels well that political and social sciences are being expelled completely from the Greek educational system. And here, Mrs. Keramos, I would like you to answer something at the National Representation. Are the two lessons of social and political science finally being cut? In other words, the basic principles of social sciences and modern worlds, citizens and democracy. The political education of the 1st grade from three hours takes place two hours or is it not done? You need to give a formal answer. I think you owe this to the whole world. And I also think that at some point in your thinking, you should also take the thousands of graduates from the political and social sciences, who are currently going to face them with a specific automation, as to whether we should prefer Latin to the National Representation or to appreciate political and social sciences. Let me not remember the pity of a government minister, who said that political science is a science on the left. They are not taught, Mrs. Keramea, for Belogan and Zachariadis. Our students are taught about the structure, nature and social cohesion. Do you feel that the quality of our society is such that younger generations should not be taught about the values of social cohesion? A question of good faith. We're waiting for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u544	Thank you for the time, Mr. President. Ioannis Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current demands and expectations of the developed world by the educational system are seen as particularly high. This is because education is regarded as one of the main instruments for the acquisition of skills, competences and knowledge necessary to meet the new challenges and the uncertainty caused by rapid developments, the globalisation of the economy, the development of new technologies, unemployment, the continuing diversification of employment, demographic developments, social exclusion, the movement of people, the development of communication. In view of all this, this draft law seeks to modernise the educational system of all levels so that it can respond to its educational programme, to the abovementioned objectives and not to limit its role only in the preparation of pupils for the pan-Hellenic exams. Based on this, curriculum programmes are streamlined, including cognitive subjects, linked to the realistic needs of pupils as active citizens both at the level of general knowledge and at the level of scientific objectives. More detailedly, this bill introduces piloting learning English in kindergartens through creative activities, where an English teacher, in collaboration with kindergarten, will teach the language to young pupils. At the same time, the Ministry of Education is investing in English and primary education, where teaching hours are increasing. Additional robotic, professional orientation, sexual education, road safety and youth entrepreneurship are some of the themes, which will be piloted by September in kindergartens, primary and high school within four pillars, which relate to well-being, the environment, social awareness and responsibility, as well as creative thinking and initiative. As far as high school is concerned, this bill, aimed at raising the level of pupils' education, provides for an increase in the courses in question, and a first introduction of creative work is made. In 2016, in particular, there was a huge and inaccurate cut in the in-school courses, which were reduced by over 50%. The only four courses, which are studied up to this year by the high school pupils, are now up to seven. Among them, the great lesson of the Ancient Greeks, as well as English. Moreover, the promotion and dismissal in high school will take place from the next school year, with an average of ten in courses or an average "twelfth" as long as the student has four lessons below the base. In addition to the introduction of creative synthetic work, the bill provides for promotions to grow at the end of the school year and students to the extent necessary to promote them to be examined again in September. Settings concerning both high school and high school. Cobia changes bring this bill to high school, namely a merger of two groups of guidance, positive studies and health studies, reducing it from four to three. Also for the Greeks of 2022, that is to say, for those who have been in the second grade in September, Latin is returning to the pan-Hellenic courses, while sociology will continue to be taught in the first grade in general education. Note that general education is now returning to Graduate III for students to learn a further lesson concerning the opposite scientific field from which they have chosen to learn. The history and mathematics of general education are back for the 3rd grade students, while those who have chosen to follow the theoretical direction, will necessarily be taught Mathematics of general education and those who have chosen a positive direction will be taught history. In fact, for dismissal from high school, the two courses will be considered. Another change provided for in this bill, with the aim of always upgrading the school level, is the rounding up of the grade upwards and more than "10", from "9,5", which has been the case so far, students will be able to go to the next class to receive their dismissal. It is noteworthy and the reintroduction of the bank's institution of classified issues that only positively has to offer, and that is why I really find it difficult to understand the reactions of counter-population. These are questions of rated difficulty, which reduce the workload and create a sense of credibility in terms of the objectivity of the rating, while at the same time it is achieved by depleting the curriculum material in each class, each school, across Greece, thereby addressing the great problem of the two speed schools. The provision of broadening the institution of pilot schools and experimental schools has been very important since next year, and we have been aiming at the operation of twenty-four standards and thirty-eight experimental schools. It is worth noting the effort of the Ministry of Education to strengthen the extroversion of Greek universities, through the establishment of foreign language undergraduate programmes from each HEI, while providing facilities for attracting and staying foreign students. To sum up, the new bill by modernising and renewing curricula, so that the themes and objects refer to the modern world, succeeds in creating a new educational system, which communicates with modern currents for knowledge and skills, communicates with European and international trends and is open to society. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister and her colleagues for the excellent bill. I would like to remind you that the island of Thassos, the IP Kavala, needs technical training. I would like to ask the Minister to start with an IEK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, Mr. Paschalides. Now Mr Kedicoglou has the floor from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Spankis, Ms. Papakosta. As far as I understand it, the rapporteurs will then talk about their second-guess, Mr Philis, Mr Delis and Mr Andrianos - no one else asks for the floor - and the Minister will close. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest. I do not believe that there is any party position that is satisfied with the level of education in Greece. The problem is easily seen, seeing high school graduates with basic, fundamental - I would say - shortcomings in the use of the Greek language, history, geography and even simple arithmetic. I hear the criticism of the Opposition that the bill under discussion is a return to the past. Of course, that's not the case. However, I must point out to them that in the past high school graduates have had a much better knowledgeable level than today's. Something has made it considerably worse in our public education for the past twenty years. And we're all to blame for it. And all this, while modern conditions pose new challenges and require new solutions. And it's sad to see a portion of the teachers react to every attempt to change and improve, asking even for the withdrawal of all computers. And it gets even more sad when you see teachers screaming placats and banners with criminary unorthographies and stumbled mistakes. And it's not just the unfamiliar who wrote the banner, it's all the rest of the people who see it without knowing the mistakes they make in their eyes. They are the ones who teach our children? And also reasonably he thinks then, "Now I understand why they react to every form of evaluation." And that's how we get to students to ask for their own lessons, without any knowledge and effort of their own, as if education was just a time to pass. If we want better Greece, we need to have better education at all levels. I am pleased that this is our government's priority, and this bill makes important steps. Education, in addition to general education, must act as a social elevator, to enable the person who tries to reach what he deserves, regardless of social origin. And that is where I want to focus, in the very institution that strengthens the process of the social elevator, on the standards of schools that are now spread throughout Greece. I honestly cannot understand the reactions of anti-population, even left-wing anti-population, to the standards of schools. And I say it on account of knowledge, because I'm a model school graduate, I went to Varvachio. Next to me was the doorman's son sitting there than the kid's in the back. The vast majority of my classmates were folk and middle class, all the brilliant minds as a result of unsatisfactory introductory examinations. The most beneficial thing, and the one among us, which has led to the introduction of more than 95% of higher education institutions. They are, of course, worth congratulating our teachers, to thank them from the heart, which, as I recall, were also regularly evaluated. How, then, can you characterize such an elite school? Elite doesn't need any standard schools, she has all the comfort of sending her children to private. People's mattresses need model schools, so that their children can take advantage of their qualifications by appealing to learning. For children with appeal to sport or music there are sports and music schools. Why shouldn't standard schools be available for children by appealing to learning accordingly? Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that with your attitude to the standards of schools for all, and indeed throughout Greece, you are basically defending the privileges of the economic elite? From personal experience I would also like to speak about English at the kindergarten. How can you claim to be harmful? The infant’s mind is sponge, especially in foreign languages, and their learning strengthens spiritual development. I know because I grew up bilingual and proved to be a major advantage. And if you don't want my personal example, see what happens with our immigrants' children all over the world. It is beneficial to grow up speaking two or more languages, because they can. For the same reason, I welcome the increase in English teaching hours in the first grades of primary school. Let's not forget that the harder you grow, the harder you learn a foreign language, while if you have learned one from a young one, then the second and the third learn more easily, the brain has become familiar with the learning process. And we Greeks must be multilingual in today's international context. I also welcome the reintroduction of the conduct. You don't like the word? Do you not like the words 'world' and 'world'? Let's find another description, but we can't get the school bully to be in the unpredictable. There's no way school bullying can't have any consequences. Children must learn to respect their classmates' rights. I should like to end by making a few suggestions and contributing to a further improvement, Minister. For example, first proposal, the operation of the EDPS, the Diagnostic Assessment and Support Committees, the psychologist and the social worker, that is, who go once a week to some schools, is an institution that should be generalized in all schools. It is important to help them in the operation of schools by resolving problems in the relationship between parents, pupils and teachers. Even their daily presence would be necessary and would substantially help to better deal with the issues of pupils and parents. Another proposal is that the state supply with laptops all students in the fourth grade and with tablet in the first grade. In this way, within three years, all students will have the electronic equipment they need. Informatics course is held since 1st grade in elementary school. Therefore, as in the rest of the course books are given, the IT course should be given tablet or laptop respectively. I know there's been one step, but having five, six tablets in an entire school is dropping in the ocean. It is clear that if we want to upgrade education in Greece, we must, in addition to laws and circulars, move towards a rational increase in expenditure, but they will have a specific target. How many students enter primary school every year? A hundred thousand. Can we not make EUR 10 million available to have a tablet or EUR 20 million respectively for a laptop? It's the prime investment in our future that's going to catch a place. I know that known trade unionists of regression and withdrawal of any technology will be against it. They remind a little of the 19th - century Ludites who broke factory engines because they thought they were stealing the job. But we must move forward, not go back centuries. We have to take our training forward, so Greece can go ahead. And with this bill, there's a lot of steps going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u548	Thank you. Now Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u549	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with particular interest I have watched all my fellow Members speak of the Ministry of Education and Religion's current bill, a bill which includes arrangements aimed at upgrading primary and secondary education and also higher education, in an effort to reconcile the educational system after its four-year degradation by SYRIZA - ANEL government. Because that's the truth. Four years we have degraded the educational system. Let me say from this step, congratulations to the teachers, to each and every one of them, who keep the educational system up. And I say this because I was lucky to have parents of teachers, father and mother, experience the problems of education every day, the shortcomings, the anxiety and many times the isolation of the teacher. That's why they deserve a lot of congratulations to our teachers. However, I shall briefly refer to some of the provisions of this bill which, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, are structural aspects of the New Democracy programme which were voted in favour - because that is the truth - of the Greek people in the elections of 7 July. Changes to the school program are being introduced. Skill workshops are introduced with pilot implementation of new themes in the mandatory preschool, primary and high schools programme, with the aim of strengthening the culture of mild skills, life skills and technology and science skills. The pilot run of English in kindergarten program is introduced. The involvement of students in English through creative activities. The teaching of informatics, foreign languages, classics, physical education, as well as the preparation of research synthetic work as a complementary or alternative method of evaluation, is strengthened. All right, the conditions for students to learn and promote pupils are streamlined by increasing the number of courses in question, by the "10" rating base in each course or "13" on average and by adding four course limits for review in September. In high school they grow by one of the written courses in 2nd and 3th grades. Students shall be promoted or made redundant if they have a general average of at least '10' instead of '9,5' valid to date. The theoretical guidance students in the 3rd grade will attend compulsory mathematics and positive directions will attend history. You know, if you're out in our town squares, what's going on as a joke between students? 'In order not to promote one should apply'. This is the situation where you have reached education in our country. The institution of the themes bank, which the government of SYRIZA has abolished in 2015, is re-established. The aim is to contribute to better education planning and to the qualitative upgrading of the education provided. Of course, Minister, in order to achieve this institution, conclusions must be drawn from the first application to avoid mistakes, but also from the right application of the Topics Bank, all high school staff must be trained in good time. I am well aware of the fight you are doing every day. There are issues linked to the system of access to higher education with this bill, a system that we inherited from the previous government and practically proved to be serious problems of implementation. This reduces, among other things, the graduation teams from four to three and restores the gravity factor to two lessons per school, part or introductory direction from the next school year. In addition to this, I would like to address two issues which are absolutely targeted interventions to strengthen the educational work. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you have allergy to what is associated with excellence, but the expansion of standards and experimental schools is a key element in the programme of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the New Democracy. It creates a network of schools which, on the one hand, can contribute to the production and dissemination of good practice and to the development of a training system which is a deficit in our educational system. These schools are in no way elite schools. They are schools for all and more for family children from low income classes, but they have skills and have the right to have goals. And what do we do? We're giving it a chance. However, we also have an important point. I am elected in the country's largest constituency in the South sector of 2nd Athens. Kallithea, one of the largest municipalities in the country, has neither an experimental nor a model school. Same in Moschato, the Old Faliro, the Glyfada. Shouldn't there be a model school in Ilioupoli? We've got the building of the polyclades in Buliagmeni. It could be comfortable for there to be an experimental or model for the neighbouring municipalities of Alimos Agios Dimitrios. The same in Argyroupoli and the Greek. We also have a jewel, of course, because I also saw the list of experimental and standards - the Evangelical Standard School. It's a jewel for the southern suburbs in New Smyrna. Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary, we need to be in the south of education investment. Same in the painter's, in Vyron, in Cesarean. We need a model of experimentation. New standards and experimental schools should gradually be established in all municipalities in the South sector and in all municipalities in the country. And this bill allows these schools to apply. Standards and experimental schools are a real investment for the future of our children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, this institution should also be translated into vocational education, with appropriate use of vocational schools. You know, in my constituency there is the Sivitanidean School, a historic school, which can become a model professional high school. And that will have very positive effects. Incentives must also be given to teachers who serve in these schools, so that there is an incentive to accept the conversion of their school into a model or experimental. I conclude with the introduction of the evaluation system, another word that you on the left cause you allergy. However, we must not forget that you have pursued worthy executives during the period 2012-2014 who had been in favour of the evaluation at the time. Although you are the first to evaluate everyone with party criteria, you are now coming to the Chamber and you are against evaluation! The government is right, however, to carry out an evaluation of the procedures in education with the aim of improving the educational work produced for the benefit of the Greek society, which we all have to serve. However, any reformal change, such as evaluation, is taking place at a time when it is based on the existing educational structures, which, regardless of people who manage it, are remote from school units and, in fact, cannot offer what education needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u550	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u551	Wait a minute, Mr. President. For this reason, the Ministry of Education should also proceed with the restructuring of structures in line with the New Democracy Programme and the government's schedule statements in the House in July 2019. As far as higher education is concerned, you are strengthening the extroversion of Greek universities with the possibility of establishing foreign-language undergraduate programmes from each HEI. A single vote shall be put in place to highlight frontals and anti-cryptanes by way of an intact electronic procedure. A new framework for student transfer is set up, with the introduction as an additional academic criterion the minimum score and rationalization of economic and social criteria. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that I am proud of three things, firstly because I graduated from a public school, from the 2nd Moschatos High School, secondly, because I studied at a public university, at the Higher Commercial at the University of Athens, and thirdly because I serve the New Democracy's prolongation, which has long supported and supported public education without party colours, but with a national conscience. And, Mr President, I should like to warmly congratulate the Minister Niki Kerameos, the State Secretary Sophia Zacharakis and the Deputy Minister Vassilis Digalakis for their excellent work in the Ministry of Education and I think that today all the wings of this Parliament must be welcomed and tomorrow we must vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u552	Thank you, Mr. Spankee. The last speaker, Mrs Papakostas of New Democracy, has the floor now. We will continue with Mr. Delis, Mr. Friend, and the Minister will finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u553	Last, Mr President, I wish not the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u554	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u555	Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that the government and the Ministry responsible bring to the vote today, after consultation and interaction with the relevant bodies, is proof that Greece and its educational system are joining a new European model. We have brought the provisions of this bill into public consultation, even those relating to ministerial decisions. We have contacted by means of electronic consultation involving citizens and members of the educational community to have a comprehensive picture of the views of both experts and citizens. Today, we are voting in favour of this draft law, which - and I would like to emphasise this very much - we have worked hard and have been preparing for our party's full programme for education in November 2018. In our programme, it is clear that the concept of extroversion, whether pre-school education, middle education or higher education, has been given great weight. The development of the particular skills of each child through public education is a key objective for the present government. Each family individually has the right to enjoy its children's educational system which will enable them, in addition to learning the basic material and the cultivation of character and virtues, such as grouping, mutual respect, contribution, volunteering and environmental protection. By thus entering a new era where technology is growing rapidly, we could not leave youth entrepreneurship, robotics, but at the same time also the dangers that may be involved through unfinished communication. Such dangers - and here I speak primarily as a parent - are also the findings in the internet machine concerning sexuality. In several families, it is seen as taboo that the debate on such an important issue, which can, however, determine the lives of a teenager, if it is not discussed when and as it should be. So, by separating the steps, the school introduces this delicate issue, not as a taboo, but as a means of informing, preventing and protecting our children from spreading information that may lead to dangerous situations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to focus on the introduction of English to kindergartens, where there was a huge debate on this issue with inappropriate comments. And they prove to be atoms, since already a middle family, in order to keep her child up to the progress of today’s age, begins with a very small foreign language school. And I do not really understand why a provision is not welcome which, in addition to all the other arguments that have been heard in this Chamber, will also save from the family budget, not negligible financial resources. I cannot help but welcome the strengthening of the teaching of classics in our schools, high school and high school. Classical education, even if children do not intend to foster these studies, is a crop that we owe in both our history and our language. Thus, the introduction of the course against the third grade, whether it relates to students in the theoretical direction or practice, strengthens the knowledge of the students and makes them more global. The evaluation of the progress and conduct of pupils is at the heart of the education mission and is aimed at the formation of free and responsible citizens. And I think, ladies and gentlemen, that much more with the uncontrollable equalisation of everything that SYRIZA colleagues have had a long time to say. Students, teachers and parents should be interested, not only in school progress, but also in maintaining and maintaining attitudes and rules appropriate to their age and the school environment as well. So only we will limit the incidents of school violence, insults and bowling, when there will be limits that will also be respected by students who respect them and will be evaluated for their behaviour. My last reference to secondary education concerns standards and experimental schools, where the model of excellence is reinforced in the sense of constant self-improvement of pupils and the introduction of them will be carried out through examinations. But where SYRIZA disagrees again, it does not show the well-known equilibrium, because it is obviously not in his interest here. Excellence, progress and advancement are for everyone, regardless of the family, social and economic situation. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so, and I would like to ask him if he is prepared to do so. As for experimental studies, students will henceforth be introduced through draws and from September 2020, twenty-eight standards and thirty-four experimental schools will be in operation, while higher education is finally declining and independent more, having the possibility of establishing foreign-language undergraduate programmes from each HEI without the prior approval of a minister. The common and double curriculum between Greek and foreign HEIs, summer programs at the AEIs, while providing facilities for the attraction and licence of foreign students. The extroversion as the main axis of this draft law could therefore not be missing from higher education. We are particularly honoured by the expression of interest of foreign universities with world authority towards our own universities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that I firmly believe that the New Democracy Government, by voting on this bill, incorporates our educational system at a new age closer to modern life rate, in technology, but on the basis of always values that have been now more necessary than ever before. It is the primary goal for us each child to develop skills, to educate globally and not selectively with the sole goal of introducing a school. It is a primary objective for us to provide for the future of today's students. It is our duty to make this as much as possible and quality as possible, because by investing in the education of our young people, we are investing in the future. After all, as Aristotle said, those who carefully studied the way in which people are governed must be convinced that the fate of the nations depends solely on the education of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u556	Thank you for the time, too. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u557	Thank you, Mr President. Extreme but also very richly discussed all these days, but I want to start with something else and say that our thoughts these hours are these days with the children who will in a few days be in the battle of the pan-Hellenic exams. We understand their anxiety, their anxiety. We're with them and we're with them. It's a battle they have to give with a high head. Of course, there will be more to follow. I feel that there has been a placement here from the JRC and I am talking about the placement of Vice-President of the House of Representatives of Giorgos Lambroulis, who analysed as much as possible in the course of his time the necessary connection has to be between primary health care and overall education from the kindergarten, not to say from the kindergartens to the university. This is an extremely topical point, especially in recent times with the development we have in the pandemic. I would like to start by speaking at the outset about the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Education, an amendment which could also be a separate chapter in the bill. It's a dozen articles. I mean that the twelfth article, which gives children the compensation of EUR 700, is voted on both our hands, but we do not have that possibility because it is introduced as a package together with other eleven articles. That is why, because we will vote as a whole in the'representations' amendment, we will make it clear that we are voting for the twelfth part of this amendment, of course, as I said, abundantly. A clarification. We heard the Prime Minister say that he did not understand what the party's general secretary for the student homes said, speaking of the relocations. Look, the question of relocations is this: about ten years ago the applications for relocations were too few and we all know that. What happened all of a sudden and they were sixteen in these ten, fifteen, twenty thousand, or how many are they? Obviously, there was the inability of many families to study their children. That's self-proof. So here comes the SYRIZA government, puts the first cutters on the so-called social criteria and not all students who deserve their relocations. New Democracy now comes and adds academic criteria and makes it even more difficult. This introduction of the academic criterion has another function and perhaps more important than the operation of the cutter. It's like it's throwing water into the mill of institutions categorisation. That's objectively what it will do. Since you won't be able to go to another university from a university, because the difference between university units is more than two or two and a half thousand molecules, I don't know exactly how much it is, it means that you're at a lower university and so your degree doesn't have the same value. That's a logical interpretation. That is what the party's Secretary-General meant when he said about the relocations, saying that the homes which are already there are nothing to do with them. The government has declared that it will go ahead with public-private partnerships, so they will take care of them privately, so they will definitely work on the basis of business profits, so again the problem for a student who will have been cut off, either because of the social or academic criteria, will be obliged if he wants to study, go to a PPP student home where he will have to pay a rent. It won't be free. And if it's still at the beginning for free, Mr. Digalakis, because I see you moving your head, it's certain that in a few years the rent will follow. I would like to remind you that exactly the same thing was done with the privatisation of state childcare stations. On a night in the government of Simitis, then they were made by state-owned and, of course, next year, the first feedingstuffs that were at the beginning of a 50 - I lived - and we said: 'You are not bored'. Now it's on average 200 euros a month. From the Prime Minister's speech I think that his report and his, I would say, angular attempt to justify Article 5 for the reintroduction of the conduct. But he did it in such a way that I think he probably didn't. He justified the reintroduction of conduct as a measure against school intimidation and bowling. It's that simple, isn't it? Don't we have to do anything else? We restored the conduct and solved this problem! I'm afraid - you know that too - that's not the case. It's much more serious, it's much more complicated and reinstatement of conduct is incomprehensible. I will repeat what I said that the reintroduction of the conduct in terms of its behaviour or in terms of education much more than children will have the same effect as a strong wind in the suppression of a fire. The exact opposite effect will be brought. Aside from the speech of the Chief of Officer Response, over and above the closure of the eye with the evaluation that made a characteristic aberration and said: "I don't understand the teachers is against the evaluation if they're not punishable." In other words, it has conveyed an image which does not apply, that teachers are in favour of evaluation if it is not punishable, which I can assure you is not the case at all and I am speaking for the majority of them. He was openly proclaimed and we heard him here the paternity of foreign-language programmes with tuition fees. "We - he says - brought them first." And, of course, the introduction of English from younger ages, SYRIZA says that in 2016 he put English in the first class and now New Democracy comes and takes them to kindergarten. Mrs Zacharakis is now coming to Vima a moment ago and says: 'We do not want this contact between the students, their familiarity with the primary school and English? Do we not want it to be done through television, through toys?' You know, Ms. Zacharakis, and we don't want to, but we don't want to. It's objective. We can't change it. Should we throw the TVs out of the houses? Should we throw out the phones? Should we throw out the computers? Why does mom say so to the kid, "Take the computer"? But it can be done. So let me tell you something so that we can be honest with each other. The introduction of English into the kindergarten is not decided by the education system, the economy decides on it. Because there has been a European Union report since the last decade which says that children learn some things from the younger age - this is what the people know, of course - the better those skills will be. I will not now go into the analysis of the communication and use of language, which is not just it and should not be it, alas. But I want to make one more comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u558	Mr. Delia, we're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u559	One more minute. There has been a lot of talk here about social mobility. The SYRIZA MPs are getting up, and they say the bill restricts social mobility. The New Democracy MPs are up and said that the bill favours social mobility, considering that social mobility is guaranteed by education. But it's not like that. Finally, it is the needs of the system that define the amount and the percentage of social mobility. Yeah, but the button's not gonna be you. You may have all the skills, but the button will press the system's needs. And when the system had such expanded needs, when it was in its development in the 1960s, the 1970s, the 1980s, of course, there was social mobility. Although I don't like that term much. People weren't changing order, perhaps layers, but in any case there was that. Today, there is only one possibility for a few. What can we do now? It is therefore not a question of education. It is not education that decides on social mobility. Of course, and here I am really ending, Mr President, the main question and I think that the whole debate on it was turning around is: What kind of school do we want? This school that works and is increasingly suited to the needs of this market and is serving this school by all the governments and the Government of the New Democracy and by the government of SYRIZA - perhaps in different ways, but in any case, the same school is doing the same - the school which is competitive, which we said is very stressful, very running, very anxious, and a lot of anxiety for the parents and the other school we say, the 12-year old one, which will ensure that all children receive general multi-level education by the age of eighteen, are disciplined, acquired all those supplies. And at that age now, the one who wants to learn a job, a profession, an art, as the older people say, to go for post-training for free and the one who wants to go to college. That's what we're talking about, but this is about knowing that no government will solve it. This issue solves the system itself, solves it the way a socio-economic system operates. The first school, this market school is this school that society needs today. We're not in 1927 or 1965. We are in 2020 and the needs of the capitalist economy today have this school need and no more. That is why it is served by all parties. Another society, the one we say, will need the other school. This, of course, does not mean that we do not even care about the slightest rights or what the child of the people's family and the young person studying at the university can get today. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u560	Thank you. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, the debate, with the necessary tensions and variations, was interesting because two conflicting competitive plans were put forward for the future of our education and our children, one which is well known, is the neoliberal project for the market school and the other is that of the school of democracy, participation, cooperation and not of competition. We don't all say the same thing. The fact that the New Democracy is alone in this vote on the bill, alone in the Chamber, but also in society, as shown by the mobilisations, is important because it is at a time when the New Democracy appears to have a more general acceptance of the issue of dealing with the health crisis, but in all polls and social mobilisations it has a vertical drop in citizens' appreciation of government policy on education. A bell here for the government is ringing. Take it seriously into account and not behave in arrogant manner. Because history tells us that the area of education and youth are social areas, which have in the past been precursors of many social and political developments. I remember when I was a student, Law 815. We abolished him at the universities, Law 885. It was the first time that the law had been abolished in Greece, 815 and then the Diamantopoulou Law, and then the re-examination of Article 16. All of this - it is the truth - then there were some preliminary political developments. In 1981 the Right would fall, then the Memorandum Governments would fall. I'm not in advance. I'm just pointing out. The area of youth and education is sensitive. Let the government notice. Not as arrogant as it appeared in and out of the House. However, the debate we had here was of interest: we heard MPs and ministers develop their staff, something like Xanthopoulou, if you remember, the actor. Guys of the people all who suddenly became ministers and go out and say. To respect that. No objections, although we look for the resumes here in this House, you will see that the Ministerial Council is several college seniors. That's the reality. No mempton. I would therefore like to accept the success of the various ministers. But I want to tell you this. If it were - and it was - this element of rise, social mobility through education in the context of an overall development effort in the Greek society, we are now in another development. The other development we have today is that we have an economic reality of crisis, an economic reality that creates difficulties in the survival of people, with austerity, unemployment, the memoranda, the current crisis with the coronary, a crisis in the productive model. So it is not so straightforward that anyone who enters university will not find a job. The children know this thing and it is also a cause, unfortunately, for depreciation and studies from a point on. So, to talk a little schematically, the social elevator has stopped. As much as he's hitting a bit from the inside to start getting back on, he's not getting on. He stopped the social elevator. There is a question of more general social change in economic policies, overcoming social inequalities both in Greece and in the rest of the world, to relaunch the social elevator in a direction of social and democratic change. This message is seen in other countries of the world. The government doesn't take it. What is happening today in America is also an element of these social inequalities and the authoritarianism that we are experiencing through social inequalities. I don't see you taking these things very seriously. Of course, here we heard various Members ordering a model in their town. "Make a model for us," everyone said. What's the logic? A good school in our town and fifteen that will grow. That's the model. The bill speaks of a few schools, a few students, so-called'standards' and everything else in the dark. Nothing. We let them sink like that. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the argument that the government honours its programme commitments. Yes, sir. Is the conduct your program commitment? In what particular election commitment are you saying you will reinstate the conduct of the high school and high school absolutes? Who? I heard the Prime Minister. He was a little dizzy about that. He said to see the descriptive evaluation. There is no descriptive assessment of the treatment. There is the rating, the performance descriptive evaluation. In the lawsuit, what would he say about the teenager? What's he gonna write about in the vending room? There's evidence that keeps the school, the file. Sure. Always. They're elements of the child's personality, but what's he gonna write about? An entire paragraph descriptive assessment of his conduct? Okay. I have heard the objections of government MPs. Let me see tomorrow when we have a roll-call vote on what they're doing! They were three - four who spoke against this regulation. However, the most important thing is that I have heard what is the source of inspiration from the Minister for this arrangement. 'Italy', says the Minister, 'has a numerical evaluation system, a rating system for conduct'. So I looked into what was going on and what was going on. In 1998, the Prodi government was abolished to register the conduct in the sanitariums. He returned in 2008 with the Berlusconi government. It is the most famous Riforma Gelmini Mariastella. It's, like, Mrs. Keramos of Berlusconi at the time, the Minister of Education. It was a reform, Riforma, which caused great social reactions and youth and teachers. Then there were valuations of this choice. There was talk of the teaching of marginalization and divergence, which increased the percentage of social choice. Because we are talking about social mobility. More students were stationary, the conditions leading to school leaving increased. These are the results of social stigmatism. So school discomfort, and autocratic nostalgia. This is the reality, identified by a scientific report on teaching in Italy. This model you want to bring us here today. Are you rejoicing? Are you proud? Another proof that you speak verbally and not on the basis of what the experts say about education issues. You do not conform to educational science. You don't talk to these people. You, I repeat, speak ideologically. It seemed on all your options. For kindergartens, no discussion with experts. What about the issues of children's growth in grades? No discussion with the experts. What about the three-speed system that divides education and ghettoizes the excellent children and alienates and weakens the other schools with the other children? No discussion with the teachers. They are hard, social, class choices that result from your ideology. Of course, you're not alone. We talked about Berlusconi and Salvini today. That's where you're looking. There's your heart. It was Thatcher earlier, where she brought back to the characy as a means of pedagogical enforcement in the classroom. And it's today, and Trump, who doesn't stop in stigmatizing socialism, through dismissals to children, makes more worse than they can't breathe. Take note of this catastrophe is very bad for society as a whole. It is of little importance what will happen to your government. But take care, because the quadruple, which you are trying to rebuild with your education policy: Patrice, religion, family and market, with common denominator authorism and arrogant arrogance, is a quadruple that will lead to lost opportunities for our youth and our country again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that many of the regulations in this bill will not be implemented in practice. You already see the cameras haven't been implemented. They've asked for evidence, they don't give. None of the teachers have been implemented or the completely limited, as if they had not been implemented. They will be abolished in practice and abolished in legislation. Not only from another government, but the government itself can abolish them in front of the deadlocks. Arvanitopoulos abolished the provisions of the Diamantopoulou Act, because the social deadlocks were great and so that they could make manoeuvres were forced to make such changes, even if there is another political dynamic that gives other meaning to social movement. So here we are in order to see this path of social change, a path that cannot be stopped, no matter how much one wants, can certainly not stop with moves of impression and inaccuracy, such as not answering the arguments, argument and saying 'carcinomas' and goes by saying that SYRIZA and that his policy. In fact, not in the slogans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u562	Mr. Andriane has the floor. Please, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u563	I'll talk for two minutes, because I said I wouldn't talk. But, after Mr Philly's speech, I cannot help myself with the deceptive things he has said about fellow Members and ministers. He tried to devaluate marches of government officials, MPs who ended a public school, a public university, such as Mr Gerapeitris, and use words that he reminds of the position of that minister. I find it unacceptable. And we must respect the people who have sweated, starting from the poor layers, through public education, through public school, have managed to get here through social mobility and we must honor them rather than try to make them pay off. I was not expecting this from the SYRIZA rapporteur. He talked about ideas. But, what do you think, that's not what you're talking about? Can you not find in 115 articles not a positive step to say that yes, is there an article, two, in the right direction? And have the courage to say it and vote on it! On the one hand, you say for Ministers, for MPs, that they are ending the public school, but also for the public university and their preparation is evident in their public life and scientific course and on the other hand, you say: "Other ministers, other MPs, have finished, I know, college after all, or Harvard and others." What you want neither are you satisfied with having a public school and having their successful path, nor have they finished private school, private sector, or one of the best universities in the world. What do you want? Neither one, nor the other, because you have chosen, want and is your goal apparently, equation down. The Members who have said about the model schools in their regions have not been criminalised. Yeah, well, we want model schools all over the region. We want all schools to make standards. It's not bad. That's the target. And this bill puts the firm foundations for this course of upgrading school, from kindergarten, from high school, from high school and from university. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We believe in public school. We believe in the public university. We believe that it is through upgrading and education that the social mobility that enables poor strata, poor children, to advance, to learn letters and to have a course in their lives. Because the rich and rich families, Mr. and fellow Members, have a way of studying their children, whether within Greece in private schools or outside Greece in universities, which are really one of the best in the world, which is done by Coron. So what we are trying to do is to support these children who are not able to study either in good private schools or in good universities. So we want to upgrade the school to public school from kindergarten - as I said - primary school, high school and our universities, which actually produce important work. And on this occasion I would again like to thank all the teachers, the educational community, who support and actually produce important work, in difficult working conditions many times. So we're here to support the public school. That's what we're doing. That's what the bill does. And I believe that tomorrow, with the vote of colleagues, we will enable the government to implement these provisions in practice provided for by the provisions. And I believe that the act will respond to everything that you said before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't want to take any more time. The Minister must speak. I would also like to take this opportunity to address the children, in the light of the exams, of the pan-Hellenics. I'm also a daughter's father who gives tests and is preparing for this time. So I wish: Good luck to all children. Good power. It's not all over if something's wrong. Life is ahead of them. And always with optimism, we must see hope. Thank you very much. And I think the Minister will answer the rest, because the time has already passed and the time has already passed. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u564	You're welcome. Here, come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u565	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of an extensive debate. We have listened very carefully to your comments and remarks all these days from drafting the bill in the committee responsible, up to today's debate in plenary. I tried to gather comments and comments so that I could give clarification and reply to comments and comments. As to the procedure followed. We have heard from one criticism that the legislation is being secretly, surprisingly. On the other hand, we have heard that he has had too many comments in the social consultation. Mr Tsipras has referred to fifteen thousand comments today. We have heard criticism that we are late to bring the bill, but we have heard criticism that we have brought it quickly, as Mr Varoufakis said, for example. We have heard criticism that we have not legislated enough so far, but we have heard criticism that we are now badly legislating. What's the reality? The bill had already appeared since February, before the outbreak of the pandemic. We presented it to the Ministerial Council, the educational editors, we made announcements, press releases. Only in secret we didn't want him to pass. It wasn't submitted immediately at that time because of a pandemic. Two months later, he attended a detailed press conference and then came to public consultation for the maximum duration laid down. The consultation, as you know, is electronic and took place at a time when the whole world was at home in front of its computer, hence the record of participating in electronic consultation. Meetings and discussions were followed with institutional bodies. Changes were made to the bill, incorporating fertile comments that we received from institutions and from citizens and members of the educational community. There was an extensive debate in the House almost two weeks ago. Proposals have been written and in the context of electronic consultation and the parliamentary procedure, and we have incorporated changes to the draft law. For example, significant changes in the provisions of the pilot schools, the increase in standards from 24 to 28, the characterisation of experimental experiments on the basis of historical university experiments, changes in qualification criteria, changes in educational trust, changes in the number of children per class, changes in the way Presidents and Vice-Presidents are elected, in the criteria for the election of dean and anti-prof. Listen, we're recording, we're improving. Because Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou referred to the fact that we did not - says - acceptable proposals from the Opposition, what exactly does she refer to? What legislative proposals did the Civic Opposition propose to us, which we did not incorporate? Throughout this framework, our counsellor was the Institute for Educational Policy, university professors and mainly class teachers, people of practice who live in public education in their daily lives. As we have already announced, there are bills - among others - for teachers, for vocational education, for higher education. I now come to criticism points specifically concerning the bill. English in kindergartens: After the conspiracy theories heard by the Party of Official Opposition on American interests behind this arrangement, the evidence remains unresolved. In 2015, the number of European countries with a second language in pre-school age was three. Today there are fourteen countries such as Belgium, Finland, Spain, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Portugal. You said, Mr. Friend, under the age of six. I can't see it. I see a table clearly saying 'below three, over three', clearly stated in the public debate. Skill labs: We heard that we import insurmountable competition in schools. Why? Because we want to broaden students' horizons, provide students with valuable skills such as critical thinking, communication, initiative, creativity, adaptability through subjects such as volunteering, prevention of dependency, respect for the environment, sexual education? Mrs Sakova asked why we have no provision for the environment. We have a special unity for the environment and ecological consciousness. Invite the topic week. The thematic week, as the title itself reveals, was one week. Today, Mr Philly, you referred to it and said, 'No, it was compulsory'. I ask: Was the choice of the themes or was it not on a voluntary basis? Yes or no? All schools, for example, were required to have sex education? The choice of the topics was not mandatory. It was on a voluntary basis and was only for one week, only in high school, without training, without training, without provision for skills cultivation, fragmentation and clipboard. There was not even a framework, a law, a ministerial decision. Just a circular. The flexible zone was also invoked. Again, however, it is not the same, Mrs Kefalidou, because skill workshops are entering the compulsory timetable, on the compulsory school's till high school, with training and training of teachers, with provision for substantial skills culture for all levels, organised and global, not fragmentary and clipboard. School program: He said the Change Movement "no change in IT hours". And yet plus an hour in the First High School, plus two hours in the First High School, making it compulsory lesson from a selection. This has a special symbolism of gravity that we render precisely in this lesson and in the skills that this lesson brings to our children. It has been said that we are only dealing with a few schools. The main changes in the bill concern all schools. The evaluation, the new themes, the themes bank, the more intensive and qualitative studies, the broadening of valuation methods, the exploratory work, all of this concerns all the schools in the country, Mr Phile. But also the standards that you mentioned, yes, are tools for disseminating best educational practices. Mr Philly, you said a phrase - I do not know if you missed it or were fully conscious - about the arrangements that we bring to make the school higher requirements. You said we were stealing puberty. Why? Because we do not expect everyone to pass without an examination, because we do not expect everyone to be equal and similar, because we predict exactly a system that will highlight students’ skills? We take care of the future of our children. We are equipping them better to respond even better to the demands of the future. Model schools and experimental schools: we have heard expressions such as 'getting excellent students', 'battery drill','strengthening the democratic mission of the school','strengthening the inequalities','market school'. You talked about good schools in the rich layers. On the contrary, by multiplying and expanding their network, we make them accessible throughout the territory, so that regardless of the economic situation we all have the right to go to these exceptional schools. Equal opportunities, not leveling down, and these exceptional schools then act as a tool for disseminating best practice in education in all schools, to pull all schools forward. The SYRIZA Government with the virtually disappearance of the standards hit exactly these economic strata, the economically weak layers that it supposedly defends. Sociology and Latin: Mr. Phile, I address again to you. Starting to talk about this issue, we have gladly heard you use the word versus in impeccable Latin. You said 'Latin versus Sociology' and today, if I'm not mistaken, you said 'terra incognita'. You obviously recognize in practice the usefulness of language in our everyday life and destroy your own argument that this is a message from the dark past. Do you think all the countries that turn to classic letters are wrong? Are the countries that are taught Latin at school all wrong? Italy, Germany, France, Netherlands, Romania, Serbia, Finland, Sweden, Ireland, Belgium, Poland, Malta, Croatia, Spain, Portugal. Do I have to go on? Is everyone wrong? Is everyone in the past? It has been heard that we could give the selection of candidates between Latin and Sociology. I have mentioned that it would raise issues of equal access to higher education departments or schools from different routes, for example, to Athens Philosophy from two different routes on the basis of different subjects. This raises issues that are important. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification I deliberately think - it is not the 2014 event when the theme bank was implemented. For the first time, a new "10" and "8" promotion scheme has been implemented in each course and this has led to an increase in the failure rates. In any case, I repeat that the theme bank aims firstly to ensure the coverage of all the curriculum material from all schools and, secondly, to establish a coherent, reliable system for assessing the progress of pupils through the drawing of conclusions and objective data. Evaluation: Why are you fighting so much for evaluation? What system can progress without a constructive evaluation? Evaluation exists at every appearance of our lives and especially of professional life. Why? Because it helps identify needs and weaknesses, it helps substantially improve the result produced, gives the opportunity to highlight potential and achievements. Most teachers seek evaluation as a means of improving their performance, as a reward for their efforts, but also knowing well that without evaluation any pathogens of the education process cannot be identified and corrected. The demand for evaluation is now universal and has nothing to do with the punishment you invoke. It's a self-evident improvement treaty in any place. And most importantly in the field of education, in the area where the future of our society is judged. This is where an evaluation is needed to improve every educational system. And the evaluation is combined with the training of teachers. The evaluation is a unique opportunity to establish confidence in the public school. Evaluation and training are two concepts of interconnectors. For foreignlanguage departments: It was heard by SYRIZA MPs that the provisions of the bill would collapse in the Council of State and reminded us of the famous phrase of Mr. Tsipras: "I do not give a chance to cancel the tender at the Council of State". You remember - I imagine - the famous phrase of the former Prime Minister on the possibility that the decision of the Council of State would not be what the government was expecting at that time. I hope you don't prejudge justice decisions too. But I ask: Since you have so many doubts about constitutionality, why did you not plead unconstitutionality? Why? Why didn't you really have any arguments? And all this is just an impression game? But I would like to answer the question about the scope of the provision, because clearly the provision does not include Greek citizens, it excludes them and you say that this raises issues. This is what is called'reverse discrepancies','reverse discrimination', which is in no way forbidden by Union law. Under Union law - and I am referring to Article 18 of the Treaty - the objective of the principle - and the case law of the WEU, of course - equal treatment is to eliminate all measures on the basis of which nationals of another Member State are subject to stricter treatment or to lessen their legal or factual situation than nationals in the same situation. We don't have anything like this here. And otherwise, if you look at it, if the provision were to be in the scope of the Greek citizens, it would be contrary to the Constitution because it is clear that the Constitution is not exactly allowed to apply a tuition for Greek citizens for undergraduate degrees. The only question she raised by the House, the only one, concerned a point, foreign citizens who attend schools here, in foreign-language schools. That was the only question he asked. But the answer here is clear. These citizens have access to Greek public universities through the system of pan-Hellenic examinations. Any other solution, therefore, we would have anticipated, would probably have a question with the Constitution as it would distort the system of pan-Hellenics and access to higher public education, as protected by the Constitution. Teaching. The school's mission is to teach the children letters to translate them into knowledge. But is this only the school mission? We don't think so. It is also to form free and responsible citizens - as our Constitution requires itself in Article 16(2) - to teach them, for example, until they reach each other's limits, to teach them rights and obligations. And that's something that's being assessed. Continuing evaluation and subsequent labelling of compliance with school life rules where students learn and contact as an experience and with rights and obligations, is intended to teach pupils to virtues of freedom and responsibility, given that these two concepts are taking place at the same time. Is Greece's original rating of school behavior? Of course not. Mr Philly, I shall refer to the figures 'EURYDIC' in February 2020. Yes, in Italy, if a student doesn't have six out of ten and in behavior can't be promoted. In Germany progress reports on social behaviour at school. Specific details, Mr. Philly, not make news. Heard he's stigmatizing the kid with the indictment in the vending room. And I ask: why is it more marked than being there that, for example, it had 11 to 20 average? If that's the case, won't that lead his whole life? Then we must not have a 'tabula rasa', a 'tabula rasa' - and here Latinly Mr Philly - the exit of the student to the labour market and to society. You asked me whether we asked the principle of the protection of personal data about this measure. There is a decision of the authority, that is 28/2019, which specifically makes a distinction between elements such as nationality and religion which must not be placed in the dismissal at the beginning - and which we, and not you, have not done so, have removed - and other elements such as degree and conduct. Clear distinction is made in this decision of the authority. Is the assessment of school behavior the only measure for the formation of free and responsible citizens as the Constitution says? Oh, no. It is one of the arrangements along with many others, such as the theme of mutual respect and diversity, the school-leaving counselor and much more. Transcripts. Mr. Delis said his previous position that another cutter comes in with the academic criterion. So, Mr. Delis, do you think it's right that a student who has worked too hard to get into a university department with high molecules equilibrium with someone who has written ten less units has written much worse? To have entered the polytechnic with his sword and to have someone who has taken nine and a half thousand molecules, for example? Yes to social criteria, but should we not first ensure that academic criteria are met? Otherwise, we will also blame the students who enter these departments only on the basis of social criteria, because they may not be able to meet the requirements of the department but also those who have been introduced on the basis of academic criteria. And one last thing about the universities. I saw with interest SYRIZA's proposal for a roll-call vote. I saw there that you have put a roll-call vote in the article providing for an electronic vote on the institutions of the university. How far back do you want to go?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u566	No impressions, what else does the article have in it? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u567	Finally, I would like to respond to points of criticism with regard to the policy of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and to close down. It has been heard repeatedly that we are ignoring issues of vocational training. Just because we attach particular importance to this issue, we are preparing a special piece of legislation. We are also wondering what we are going to do with special treatment. Apart from the fact that there will also be regulations in this area in a subsequent bill, acts speak for themselves. We carried out four and a half thousand permanent appointments in special education and training to teachers and special educational staff for the first time in the history of the country. You asked our position in March on the closure of schools. We have been listening to experts since the beginning of this crisis. When the experts told us they had to shut down the schools, that's what we did. When they told us we had to open up, that's what we did again. You have spoken again about the leaking of personal data. And you've come to the House, Mr. Friend, and we've handed us a flash drive. You told us about an unprecedented leak of personal data. Your complaint was very serious, and that is why I tabled a motion for a resolution. I examined her right away, and what did I find? Not a half-personal given student, not even a half! And you've spoken of students, and in particular - to see the quote if you want - for personal data. Not half, Mr. Friend, how much make news! So what's the matter? Some teachers voluntarily raised unpersonalized results from distance learning, for example saying they had 80% participation in history or that they had 70% participation in mathematics. This was the famous flash drive with the famous leak of students' personal data. Representatives of both SYRIZA and KINAL talked about shortages of equipment. Of course there were shortcomings. Of course, there were why we took over in July 2019 and portable devices in all schools in the country were four thousand five hundred. And we in just a few months have secured twenty thousand extra donations of private individuals and have requested another forty thousand devices for school units through the NSRF. And yes, all the school units in the country will have been covered in a minimum period of time and in the midst of an unprecedented crisis. At the same time, we also develop software of the Ministry and applications of the Ministry for the Increased Needs. I'm closing, Mr. President. With this bill we aim at a more substantial and qualitative, more creative and open school, higher expectations and requirements that meets the need for more global education, more creative knowledge management, a school of vigilance, the achievement of learning goals, better educational results, a better and safer school environment with clear and better quality of education, skills workshops, strengthening a network of models and experimental schools, arrangements for a safe school environment, foreign language curriculum at our universities, finally evaluation and education. Who can oppose the need to introduce all of this into our educational system. Let's look forward. Let us build a more dynamic, more inclusive society, with equal opportunities and inclusiveness. Because by investing in education today, we provide our children with more and better equipment for tomorrow. I will close, Mr President, with a wish for our children who are giving pan-Hellenic examinations in the next few days. To wish the students a great deal of success and, of course, all those who support them, their teachers, their families. It's a collective effort, obviously, in every household. To wish our children a great deal of success. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u568	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is hereby declared adjourned: 'Strengthening the School and other provisions'. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-10-S1-commons.u569	With the consent of this House at 1 : 52 the sitting is closed for Thursday 11 June 2020 at 10: 00; the subject of this House's work: a) legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and the illegal importation, export, movement or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia for cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’. 3. "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan". (b) Vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs "State Upgrade School and Other Provisions" and (c) Just discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of the draft law of 21.5.2020 amending it from 3.6.2019 Partial Donation Convention on Work V of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Social Benefit Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure, ratified by v. 4564/2018 (A' 170) and other provisions for the aerospace of patients.’;
