ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 2 October 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1074/25-9-2020, the current question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphoon Alexiades to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Will pensioners be protected against seizures and debt compensation?". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1079/28-9-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Application of a Court of Auditors decision on the equalisation of age limits between men and women with minors until 31/12-2010." 3. Under number 1073/23-9-2020, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The Labour Inspectors' Body". 4. The question under number 1083/28-9-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Hotel with swimming pool, the government's vision of historical monuments". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1075/25-9-2020, a topical question by MP B' West Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Remuneration and remuneration of members of the Armed Forces who have been employed in Kara Tepees on a standby basis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1085/28-9-2020 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Armed Forces Officers who are curated by AMEA". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs about "The conditions of residence, co-existence and cleanliness in West Athens do not allow elementary protection from the coronary". 4. The question by No. 1086/28-9-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs about "The problems of the student roof". 5. Under number 1076/25-9-2020, a topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Direct staff support from the University of Ioannina". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 6896/28-5-2020 by MP B3' South Athens Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Completion of concession procedures for the Eleftherios Venizelos Park (Airma) Agios Dimitrios Attikis in the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny, that on Wednesday, September 30, 2020, the current questions to be debated are as follows: The question under number 1071/22-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Justice Mr. Konstantinos Tsiara. The Question under number 1070/21-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Migration and Asylum Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. The Question No 1090/28-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister of State, Georgios Georgios Gerapetitis. The question under number 1072/22-9-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Doulakakis. The question under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis. The Question under number 1078/27-9-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Zoe Rapthi. The question under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is now on Friday, after consultation. The question under number 1077/25-9-2020 shall be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabaji.’. We begin with the debate of the first under number 1090/28-9-2020 on a topical question of second-round question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragossis to the Minister of State, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of responsibilities now for the new case of government incompetence and the dismantling of public money for useless masks in schools'. Mr. Raguss has the floor for his prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gerapetritis, or, as we say, Mr Mitsotakis in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, or we could say, of course, Mr. Minister of Government, who described the Prespecies Agreement as historic, we learned from Mr. Mitsotakis in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki from an early self- admiration, which could obviously not conserve that you and Mr. Maximou, the government's final center, namely, in fact, were responsible for the timely preparation and distribution of the masks that were to be given to students and the educational community as a whole. In fact, this report by Prime Minister completely ignored the two relevant ministers that day at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Obviously the reasons, at least in our own glance, have to do, firstly, with the fact that he wanted to credit a discounted, in his view, success, of the timely distribution of masks, at the final center, in Maximus, in himself and in you and perhaps he could not, of course, hide his joy at the fact that through substantially direct assignments one - journalistic information - of friendly interests, regardless of the object - in the aluminum it was active - had taken most of the work. We all lived through the fiasco, a fiasco that had multiple effects and effects. Firstly, the dissipation in this crucial issue, the delicate issue, for students and the educational community as a whole and the Greek society as a whole, of the so-called state of service. We have lived in the event of 6 million euros, in fact, going lost and, above all, Mr Minister of Government, who described the Prespecies Agreement as historic, we have experienced what the drop that breaks out of the glass of a lost trust means. It is true, of course, that the conditions for this confidence to be lost had already been created. The "machines - parachutes" was probably the drop that left over the glass. What was it before? The schools opened up with twenty thousand less educators. We have, unlike the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the EGE, increased the number of students in municipality instead of a pandemic reduction, and, I repeat, yes, instead of reducing pupils in primary schools, you have increased them in contravention of the directives of the Scientific Committee. So we have reached the occupations, Mr Gerapetiti, through this process of total loss of the student's confidence in the government. I'm closing, Mr. President. The question is whether today will triumph evil. Pierracakis came here the other day, and we 'was caught on his own head' - in quotes - trying to organize an entire smuggling of previous important legislative interventions in the Greek Parliament. He was congratulating him on the legislative initiatives of others, of previous years, and he did not find the courage to say an apology. Mr. Chardalias did the same. We talked the other day about Evia and the eight dead, about the Mycenas, which, because there was no fire extinguisher, were burnt for the first time in their history. The question is: Will the evil be trimmed today? So, will you today follow this arrogant tactic of the government, or will you take responsibility and ask for an apology from the citizens, from the parents and also from the taxpayers? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u3	The Minister of State, George Gerapitris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank the honourable Member, Mr Ragosi, who has given me the honour of addressing me the question concerning the distribution of protection masks in educational units. My personal contribution, Mr Ragosi, was to speed up the monitoring of the competitive process, namely to complete the necessary supporting documents for the dossier, which was submitted to the Court of Auditors - I am sure the dossier was quite legitimate by the Court of Auditors - and to make timely distribution in schools. Timely distribution was a very complex exercise, not only because time was too short for both the competitive process and for production and distribution, but also because a relatively small but capable part of the supply came from abroad, so that diplomatic action is required quickly so that loads can be released and can be in time to come and distributed in the country where, as you know, there are extremely remote and inappropriate areas. The question, therefore, was that in very short time the masks had to be distributed in schools. And indeed - to say this - on the first day of the school year, despite the fact that it was a very short time, all the children had the mask in their throne. You referred to the issue of responsibility. Mr Ragossi, I understand the responsibility always as collective. The Government collectively credits the positive ones and the government is charged with failure. Never, at least as far as I am concerned, will I transfer responsibility to another government or administrative unit, and most importantly, I would not transfer responsibility to a health committee, which has been fully supported by us all this time and, of course, a large part of the successful treatment of the virus is credited. Mr. Ragostis, we have announced that every child will receive three masks from the Greek State. This notification took place a few days before the start of the school year. We are, and we are, the only European country that has been free of charge in schools, so that children can have this protection. If I may, I will send you a video of the French Minister of Education, which says that no European country has given the masks free of charge. Indeed, Mr Ragossi, in a subset of masks, namely masks addressed to children under the age of 10, there was an unreasonable display of dimensions, which lacked a margin of misinterpretation of the real dimension. The masks were two categories, for under ten and for over ten years. It was this misinterpretation that led to the production of masks for small categories - small masks - which were relatively disproportionate for some of the children. The CEDEFOP, which conducted the relevant procedure, following the specifications laid down by the appropriate health committee, actually provided masks for all children, which were distributed. Just because we realized at the end that there was a big issue for older children, we exhausted all the small masks, so that even older children of the order of ten to fifteen would actually take the small masks, since in any case there was one welfare, so that there would be a larger number. Today we are talking, Mr Ragosi, the health committee has already given new masks, namely new mask specifications, and it has already started the procedure for the second batch, which will be given in October and the third batch, which will be given in November. There will be processing of masks, at no cost for the Greek State, masks which are currently available to the CEDEFOP. There will be the processing to be undertaken by suppliers. Moreover, all children at the end of the day will have the three masks that account for them. Therefore, at the end of the day that is crucial, it is that children will have all their masks and there will be no burden on the Greek public. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u5	Mr Ragossi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Gerapititi, first of all, to be precise. You are the only government that attempted to distribute masks - parachutes to students. To be precise, not at the end of the day, not at the end of the week or at the end of the month, but at the end of the year you will probably have managed to correct all this damage, which I repeat is much larger than the mask itself. I caught a revulsion of your speech, as you spoke about not moving your responsibilities elsewhere, etc. Why don't you say it clearly? Even today you, because you do not, as a government, have the power, strength, politics and morality toward the citizens, not to us, say: 'Yes, we were wrong, we apologise'. Why can't you at last put these simple words in your mouth, Mr. Gerapetti, as a government, I repeat, both you and the whole of the Ministers? I told you before that, in fact, you have become politically and morally, for what is happening today in schools with the occupations. These occupations, in order to land sometime actually, have nothing to do with what we have seen in recent years, in my humble opinion. These occupations are not in the mind of disciples of proclaiming weapons. It's a self-protection tool. That is what they feel they are doing, that they are protecting themselves, what Mr Mitsotakis asked them to do in the final analysis, by putting the dilemma 'autoprotection or quarantine'. They protect themselves. Why? Because you have taken them to schools, where - beware - according to the figures today on the first page 'SYNEI', while we had in six months of the pandemic, from February to 13 September, seven hundred sixty-six coronary cases in pupils, only two weeks after the school was opened, we have three hundred sixty-five cases. Just two weeks! We already have a hundred and fifty schools in which there are closed classes because of a coronary. And not because of a coronary, but because of your choices, Mr. Gerapitris. That's the truth. And the way we go - I wish we were disproved - in a few weeks, in a few months' time, I wish there were not much more schools that would be closed because of a coronary than those that are already closed or closed because of occupations. I would also like at this point to tell you something and to convey it to the government. This situation of these reflex self-protecting students and the educational community is not treated with police logic. What you went to do in Keracini or even worse in Kavala, sending police officers to threaten young children. The students are right, you are wrong, because, as I said before, we have twenty thousand less educators this year, we have more students per class in elementary school in violation of the instructions, wishes and directions given by the Scientific Committee and, of course, we also have the mask fiasco. I will conclude, Mr President, and the Minister of Government who has described the Prespecies Agreement historically - and he has done well - by saying that the Head of Officerial Response, the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Tsipras, said a phrase that made an impression. He said that you have made the country - scavengerly said it - as the country with most square meters of mask per student. I will tell you - by giving you a last chance - that if you make your second speech the choice not to apologise for this mask fiasco, that Greece will not only be as Mr Tsipras described it, that is to say, the country with most square meters of mask per student, but will also be the country with most square measures of arrogance and non-discrimination per Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u7	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Ragossi, for sending us the message from the Chief of Officerial Opposition, because it obviously does not sound from anyone, and much more from within your party. It is obvious that in trying to have a disproportionate reaction to things, Mr Ragussi put in the political mixer anything he could put into. He put the Treaty of Ambassadors, put the issues to do with the full details of schools, he put too many things on, but not the question he was asked today in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, which is the mask. It has also done something just as important and I would like it to be recorded. Today we had a conspiracy, a political adoption of mobilizations taking place in schools. In a clear, clear way, Mr Raguss, has justified this type of exercise of a minority on the majority of children, who want to be taught and are today being hampered. So, in reality, we have oppression, which is classic - I would like to stress this - of character. Because those children who do not receive their education today are those who are actually blackmailed in doing so. Let me tell you about the mask. I myself will apologise to the children who did not get the mask in their right size. But, Mr Ragosisi, the debate is about shadow and you proved it today because you had nothing to say. The mask is primarily symbolic. In their overwhelming majority the children came with their own mask, showed very great compliance and adaptability to the new data. The large masks that have been produced at the moment will be processed without costs for the Greek public and the children will still receive two masks, as has already been stated. Most of all - because you referred to this - the schools have opened up without educational gaps this year and I would ask you to look into what has happened with the education gaps in previous years. For the first time, the distribution of books has started since the beginning of May 2020, and there has been no gap in the distribution of books. For the first time, we have four and a half thousand special education teachers established, who have been on duty. For the first time the deputys were installed long ago any other year - I have the data at your disposal - and they are more. This is why an additional 118 million was allocated to the initial 200 million so that the Public Investment Programme would make this additional adjustment, precisely because of the circumstances of the koruna and, furthermore, the appointments of ten thousand five hundred permanent teachers are being advanced. The provisional tables have already been published and we are in the process of adopting the final tables. You will allow me, Mr Ragosi, to close a comment in relation to the general nature of parliamentary control by a non-professional politician. I am pleased that there has been a real upgrading of parliamentary control in this Parliament. I am in this Parliament as a visitor to my students for the past twenty years and in all cases there have been ministers who have not appeared unjustly. I would like to acknowledge the fact that in this parliamentary term they have practically zeroed - zeroed, I repeat - the unjustified absences of Ministers in parliamentary control. This, if anything, is respect for Parliament. But do you know anything else? The aim of parliamentary control is to seek political truth. What matters is the answer. In this regard, however, with the verbalism we had in the question and with this type of irresponsible hint about friends, about general outcry, about a disgusting spectacle, it is obvious, Mr Ragosi, that you did not care about the answer but only about the question. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. It is known in this House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: A. Clearance of the Memorandum of Understanding for Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the General Authority for Youth and Sport of the United Arab Emirates. B. Closure of the Memorandum of Understanding on Sports between the Olympic Committee of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of Education and Religious Culture and Sports of the Hellenic Republic. C. Repeal of the Protocol on Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. We continue with the first with number 1072/22-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Support measures for Enterprises - Workers, Poros and Galatas (Trise)". Here, Mr Katsafad, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are undoubtedly experiencing a global health and economic crisis. Our country and our government are, on the one hand, trying to ensure the health of all Greek citizens and, on the other, to be able to take measures so that they are emblematic about this whole global economic recession, which affects us through the coronary pandemic - a recession that we will be able to find during World War II only, with the aim and aim of keeping business open and without redundancies. My question, however, has to do with the island of my constituency, which, unfortunately, was the first island to experience a special lockdown during the tourist season and I am referring to Poros. You know how important it was and how it was the charismatic shot against all these businesses on an island where all of its economy is based on tourism. This seems to be and is being testified by the results obtained from the time this particular lockdown was imposed, but also by the size and strength of these measures, as these measures were used as an example and as a guide to other tourist areas that were forced to enter under the same regime. Minister beneath this terrible great effort you are making, in order to keep business and workers, I wanted to take you through this question to pass on the tragic situation in which the businesses of this island, Poros, and also the Galata community of the Municipality of Troisinia - Methana, are directly related to each other. What I would ask you to do is to take measures in particular to strengthen these businesses, which will be reopened - firstly, God, and if this health crisis allows us - the next Easter. You understand, therefore, that we are talking about businesses, which have been closed for over a year and a half and for businesses which cannot withstand and cope with these circumstances. That is why we are asking for your help, support and assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Minister, Mr. Dogfish, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the pandemic has caused all kinds of financial problems. There are companies that have been hit very badly and companies that continue to get hurt. Many of the tourist companies in fact lost a whole season, especially those found to have local lockdowns. Where they had started to pick up some of their tops, they were subjected to another very serious blow. The government has taken a number of measures so far for these companies. I am referring, for example, to the suspensions of employment contracts for workers with EUR 534 per month at work, the reduction of the rent for August and September in tourism, focusing on culture, transport and other specific categories. I am also referring to the creation of a new definition for seasonal enterprises with 50% of the turnover in the quarter of July - August - September, which enabled us to help with the checks that these enterprises have, but also to drastically reduce insurance contributions. But that's not enough. Another measure will be needed, especially for the areas that we have lockdown and the businesses affected by lockdown, based on the reduction of their turnover. This will be used in the Refund 4, which a part of it - we will see how and how - it will be non-refundable. This is extremely important because it allows us to give them, apart from liquidity, and real support, but on the basis of the real impact that the coronary or lockdown had on their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Minister, I am very pleased with this communication which you are doing today in plenary. It is an issue that I had discussed with the Minister responsible and we had asked or asked for an increased percentage of these operations on the repayable advance or a piece of it to be non-refundable, as you quite rightly said at the moment. It's a very important thing. On the occasion of Poros and the Community Galata of the province of Trizinia may open a debate on all these regions, even though the Poros, as I have said, is in this regime on 5 August. For example, we are talking about an island, which has sixty hotel units and hostels together. We're talking about a number of three and a half thousand beds. From 6 to 8 August they left the island a thousand fifty cars and left the coastline a thousand two hundred tourists. You can understand, then, that since August 6th, he cleared this island, in a tourist season that everyone expected - in August - when they lost Easter tourist season and even when it is questionable and blurred the landscape of what will happen from now on. This is a very important initiative that the government is taking, and I really must congratulate you on that. However, I must also urge you and support you for some other actions, which, of course, do not fall exclusively within the competence of the Ministry of Economy, but as the sovereign around economic policy and development strategy, you could contribute. This is all about, Minister, by the fact that, even this crisis, we can show it as an opportunity to upgrade the tourism product itself, which we have. So I would like to ask you, through this procedure, to contribute to the communication which was made yesterday, where the European Union will give around EUR 1.5 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises. There may also be provision for all these tourist enterprises that were found under a lockdown during the tourist season, to be able to have a greater say in this programme as well. Also, for the new 'Software' programme dealing with tourist businesses, perhaps we could think and see for these regions again if we can give them an increased subsidy rate. Why am I telling you this, Minister? Because, of course, it is a question of being able to keep the businesses open and not being made redundant. Perhaps, however, through all these tools, which we now have, through the negotiation made by the government with the European mechanisms, we can be able to use and upgrade the tourist product that the country has and which will also help in the years to come. I think this is a very important debate, which should begin. In conclusion, I would really like to thank you, once again, because you realised how big the problem was in all these tourist regions, which were in the middle of the tourist season under the lockdown regime and you are here to be able to help them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much for your good words. It is very important that we can make use of European resources and for the benefit of our tourism product. These European funds will be very important in the coming years. In fact, we are being called upon to absorb about twice as many as twice as we have been. The challenge is very great. It concerns all of us, including the public, as well as the legal actions that may be brought, and also the private sector. We need to make a very careful design. It is certain that everyone in the mood to upgrade their businesses will have help in doing so. There's no doubt about that. It is also important that we can help private investment and training and retraining of workers in this sector, as well as in general. The phase we are in, unfortunately, is not yet a phase in which these programmes are active. The Recovery Fund will be finalised in the second quarter of 2021. We can, however, start some programs earlier, and we urge the Ministries to begin what they can do earlier, and we will see in the course of our stepping up in many areas, obviously also in "Security", in digital investment. Wherever we can, we will start earlier, taking a risk that there will not necessarily be inclusion in the area of the Recovery Fund, because we have other resources that we can use. With regard to the present phase of the pandemic, the tools we have developed, the repayable advance, the "ERGANI", "Co-work", the new programme that starts for the hundreds of thousands of jobs with zero insurance contributions are tools that have flexibility and can be used with surgical accuracy now in specific cases. In other words, instead of going and saying what is happening, we have exactly what has happened to each operation in Poros and Galatia, and we can help each undertaking in particular, on the basis of the damage it has suffered. This helps us, because we still have not seen the end of the pandemic, and we have a difficult period ahead of us, at least three difficult months, possibly four and five and six - depending on what will happen and on the vaccines - and we need to be close to business, to workers, to local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you too, Minister. We move on to the third with number 1071/22-9-2020 in the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: 'The objective of child conspiracy'. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, don't put time. Are we gonna talk with a mask or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u19	As you wish. When someone talks, they can take the mask off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u20	In the Intergroup Committee on Thrace Development I had taken off the mask and I was speaking, and MP Cairides says "but, when we talk, we have to wear the mask" and it prevailed. 'When we talk,' he says, 'we're emitted'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u21	Look, when they take the floor in this big Hall, they don't wear the mask. Now I don't want to make it out and, as President-in-Office, I have it permanently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u22	If that's the rule, it makes me extremely comfortable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u23	I'm not a doctor, but I have the impression in this big space, there's no problem. We're ten people. It even has a constant current from all the doors, as you can see. We create the most appropriate ventilation conditions. So, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor and you don't have to wear a mask while you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the very sensitive issue of children's condolences, on the most, at times, a dramatic subject, which concerns the rights of children themselves primarily, but also of parents, and at the time, unfortunately, judicial decisions on fathers are being made more clearly, we have had good discussions in January on a timely question I had tabled and you have correctly replied that you will do so quickly. You promised to bring the first solutions in March. The coroner's here and the known problems. We went June and we weren't done. We're at the end of September. It is time, however, not for sensitive words, which we all have, I have no objections to both you and Mr Amyras from New Democracy, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. Okay, it's words. But the time has come for actions. So far, on the part of the Ministry of Justice, I have recorded an act on a legislative initiative, which you took in the summer, on the last day the House was open, on 29 July, and you have brought an amendment signed by eight other colleagues, who were nine ministers, ten articles and fifty-four pages. I was not a parliamentary representative that day in the draft law, unfortunately, because I would have noticed it until the last minute. You have brought an amendment to "Special Disciplinary Acts" with two paragraphs that you amended Article 1519 of the Civil Code. My colleagues, Mr President, have searched for seven hundred and six hundred pages of practice and have not found the amendment that the Minister should support, nor any other Minister had spoken positively, but the colleague of the New Democracy Member, Yannis Bougas, had spoken positively. It has, however, supported the original amendment, Mr President. Suddenly - for us all of a sudden, some legislative notes would obviously have been inserted - into the infancy of the draft law, which was very important: 'The serious non-recurring acts of custody of children affecting the future of the child are taken by both parents', very serious, very important act of legislation. They have also changed the title of the article, an article on the change in the place of residence of the child has been made and the second paragraph has been tightened, and the second paragraph, on the place of residence where there should be agreement on the change in the place of residence. There has been a 'definitive' decision. I have before me the original amendment and the body of the bill as formulated, but also the final article. It's obvious you brought it here otherwise, and someone changed it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u26	No, Minister, that's the only way. You have come in a good mood, not to solve all the problems, but to resolve a subject - one general topic - and something has happened, as has been done many times with that government, and someone has removed your first paragraph. You may have given the relevant order. I'm not staying in these. I'm interested in the substance. The promise was that the overall solution will come at the end of September. We are at the end of September, the overall solution has not come and this has been done in a magical way, that is to say, the removal of a very positive provision. Now I have questions and I am closing, Mr President: have you been positive and within the government were you others not and changed that? Do you, then, have a good mood and someone does not have a good mood within the government and that happens? Secondly, give us a timeline. There are people suffering. Mr President, on this issue, in Athens, I have already seen two banners on bridges. There's a world that's unhappy with it. Uh, we have to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Loverdos, first of all, I would like to say that I am pleased, because you remain consistent with the follow-up of a very critical social problem, but also with a more general effort, which I myself have been the first to take on the reform of family law. Indeed, we are here again, after January, to discuss this particular and very sensitive social issue. The truth is that the time spent on, helped and enabled a wider social dialogue to develop on all issues of Family Law. I think that this fermentation is now becoming open throughout society. I think - and we said this last time, I will repeat it now - that with some rather unjustified logic of social automation, instead of resolving this problem, which concerns diligence, parental and child relations, it has unfortunately been under the carpet all these years. You know - I told you from the start - that I personally decided to raise this mess. There has been a pathogen for too many years, which has one single victim: the child. The kid! This is the victim, unfortunately, of these bad practices that have been adopted and which to a very large extent create these tensions and problems. I do not know whether we should repeat all of this which, I think, we have said too many times and which I believe, to a very large extent, will be in agreement with all of us in this Chamber and which, on the other hand, will also create the absolute need to move forward. As you know, the Legislative Committee has been set up since March. In view of all these facts, the coronary, pandemic and lockdown, there was no possibility of developing some things at the speed which, in fact, we had anticipated and, of course, we wanted to see from the very beginning. Yesterday I just saw the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Tent, and I had a very open and very honest discussion with him. It came, of course, to ask me for a small extension of the Legislative Committee, which I personally set until the end of October - I tell you so that we can now define these times and finish - because he declared the real weakness to me. There was another issue that I will not hide behind my finger and I will report to you. For this Legal Affairs Committee, there has been an inconceivably great interest in many. I want to be honest. Of course, this will be judged in retrospect. A Multipartite Legislative Committee was set up. This created an extra difficulty. But, here we are at the moment, I will tell you that we are close to the end and that, in very short time from now on, you will also be invited by all the parties, because I would like to see a piece of legislation on the reform of family law, especially on the issue of parental relations and on the question of conscientiousness. Consistency for me is the minimum given that there will be in this legislative initiative, but the question is that we must, with seriousness and maturity, all political parties support whatever choice it will help us to give a solution to this problem. What you referred to earlier, for the July amendment, I will tell you that the effort that has been made was to stop a very specific phenomenon, which was very intense at the time. For some reasons, some mothers changed their seat and place of residence, possibly, in view of the reform of family law, in relation to this issue, and we had to stop this and, in fact, only the development. The first paragraph - which you rightly said was - actually created issues which were the subject of discussion and decision of the legislature. There was no one else who excluded this part and that paragraph or, if you like, a second or a third thought in relation to it. We just had to respect the effort of the legislature. Of course, we must have its conclusion - I repeat - in this short period of time, which is in front of us and have all sit down and make brave decisions on the reform of the Family Law on the individual issue, which I think is of concern to us all and creates a huge social problem. I am going to go back to the second reading, but I would like to assure you that an abandoned issue for forty years, because this is what this is all about - the last serious legislative reform of family law was forty years ago - it is before the gates with a very systematic and responsible effort both of my colleagues and the nomadic committee. I'll be back in a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when you call on the Change Movement to participate in the dialogue, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou will come - she is perfectly informed, we are working perfectly - so that we can contribute. We're here, we'll help. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you say that we intervened exceptionally in the summer, because many parents stayed away from their children because of a change of seat, and we arranged. However, as last time was added to the order - and the one that has finally been left - that there must be a final judicial decision, so that now the courts, by provisional orders - Mr Minister, you are not a lawyer - who are inexcusable. A operative is incorporating. Well, there's court decisions. They come out and say it doesn't matter. None. Why can't you make a final judicial decision? Did they also put this - your consultants? Obviously - and they canceled the arrangement. The circumstances were extraordinary. But as the provision has been made, it has abolished the matter, your own initiative that you have had a good mood. I trust you. I expressly state this to the House. I trust you. I trust your very good mood. I do not, however, wish to be lured, if necessary, by the lack of certainty about the need for these interventions in your Ministry. I can't know that. Saying that I trust you and because they hear us, I do not want to lure people into a transfer of confidence that, in the end, if you fail - which I do not wish to do at all - I want to stay with, say, involved in an attempt to put the people in need to end. You need to take care of that. Where people cry because it hurts such a thing, sensitivity is so great that the classic moves of politics are not allowed 'for tomorrow', 'we will see'. Why do I say'stop for tomorrow', 'we'll see'? Because I have discussed this with four ministers, three SYRIZA ministers and you. There was Mr Condonis, who was negative - but, clearly, he said, I will not do so - and the other ministers, Mr Kalogeros, did not - do so - Mr Paradise was very positive - but he also knew it - but he waited for the prefecture until it was reconstructed and the prefecture went. Another prefecture of Contonis, another Kalogerou. Well, but there are people who understand that time counts differently for politicians and families. One is the time, one is the month, one is the day for you and for me, but also for the society that is watching us. Watch something, and that's what I'm gonna close. It is clear to me, Mr President, that there is not so much regulation of the law but implementation. Whatever a failed but well-intentioned legislative initiative says, the judge will implement it in the mindsets of decades. What we need to see together, and you who will take the initiative and we will be called as Parliament to vote, is if we equip justice with such a regulation that excludes stereotypes, which prevents people who say 'a house must have the child'. They've changed these. There are educational interventions, psychological interventions, medical interventions, science, the Greek Citizen's Counsel. In most countries in the European Union, things have changed. With stereotypes there is no justice. That is why the final wording must be very careful. I am sitting in my chair, Mr President, by saying here, what Mr Tsiaras said, that the legislative initiative will take place at the end of October. Legislative initiative will take place at the end of October! I hope there's nothing wrong with that until then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u31	The Minister for Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u32	Mr Loverdo, I have been informed, I have followed up and know the effort you have made on this matter. Do you know the difference in relation to the past to which you referred? That, with a particular political will, there is a legislative committee which ends its work. That is the real essential difference. I realize there's indignation, there's pain, there's human pain. I know that very well. There are many parents, fathers, we know, who are in a very difficult position. I'm not hiding it to you that a lot of remarks are coming to me for myself that I find unjust, but that's another case. Through such pressing psychology and through a life that unfortunately creates data and parental alienation and inability to see their children, to live with them, to take them what they want, I understand that some behaviors, even unfair, may manifest themselves. But, once again, the reform of family law is a forgotten issue from the Greek state for almost forty years. Here we are in the face of data and realities which force us to move very quickly. The relationship between parents and children is one chapter of the reform which will proceed directly to the timetable that I have set you. That is, I repeat, the extension to be granted will only be for a month, despite the fact that I was asked for more. I have asked the chairman of the Legislative Committee to bring me their final conclusion and I am prepared to have a serious debate, which I would like to make with the parties' representatives and with the political parties, to come to very brave decisions, provided that we agree to take the next step. Besides, the reality itself does not think that it creates any doubt. We know very well what's going on. As we also know, the fact that, in order for a reformed family law to apply, especially in relations between parents and children, everyone must be involved, the political system, society itself, the judicial officers - you are right to say that, and you have rightly made this point. We all need to understand that we are at another time and that we need these phenomena of parental alienation and, in any case, the realities that many people live in to ensure that we heal them and make sure that we get through them. Today we have to understand that there are many different facts. Marriage, human reproduction with medical assistance, the acquisition of a child through parentality, the insult and recognition of paternity, family kinship, adoption, assumption, the establishment of purely family courts and many other smaller issues, are the ones that should be included in the reform of family law. Today, however, we will proceed with the only, but essential, chapter of parent and child relations. And because I do not want to repeat the same things, we all know that, unfortunately, a reality has developed, which is very negative mainly for fathers. Non-compliance with judicial decisions - I insist on this - is an essential reason for reaching these phenomena of incomprehensible psychological pressure, but much more so for the phenomena of parental alienation. Adherence to judicial decisions must be a key issue for the next day and, of course, conscientiousness to expression and to the extent that can be achieved - to me the term 'consistency' is given in the next legislation, which, as we have said very soon, will have - I think it will give both parents the right to have the right to have the child's life and the child enjoy the physical presence of both parents. Let me repeat all that we know from all the scientific studies, which basically accept that when children grow up with the physical presence of both sexes, the two parents, they are children with fewer problems, they are children who are more easily integrated into society, they are children who achieve more. We have already said so, we have said so, once again, in this debate on the topical and urgent subjects of major importance. What I really want to keep from it is the possibility of answering from my side, the fact that we are at the end, is that, for the first time after many years, we are actually going to regulate a matter that we know was hidden under the carpet and that no one was dealing with in the recent or final past. For the first time we are trying to give a solution on the basis of a real social problem, based on a real need for people, but above all, looking to how we really will ensure the interests of the child. After all, this should be the demand of any modern European society, any modern European social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you too, Minister. We move to the second under No 8395/21-7-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "Programming for the Anti-Greek vaccination of the population". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that a number of measures have been taken to tackle the horn pandemic, such as social distance, personal hygiene measures, the use of a mask. All these measures lead to a reduction in the spread of the pandemic. However, the management of the pandemic is currently in a marginal and dangerous situation, as cases daily move in three-digit figures and give the impression that the situation can escape us at any time. In view, in fact, of both winter and the possible occurrence of influenza, there is even more concern about the possibility of coexistence between two viruses and the burden it will bear on the human body if they are affected by these two viruses. Such a possibility may result in even more patients, heavy incidents and longer hospitalisation time, in the hospitals and in general inconvenience to a system which is already marginal. As the infectious, vaccination as much as possible of the population against influenza and pneumococcal pneumoccals is expected to function protectively in the treatment of COVID -19. This is why there is worldwide a great demand for flu vaccine from all states. Recently, you announced the plan for the anti-Greek vaccination of the Greek population ahead of the winter coming. We would like here from the Step of the House to assure us both of the adequacy of vaccines and of the completion of these supplies. We find that more and more Greek citizens want to be vaccinated. There is a need for full coverage of vulnerable groups with anti-grain vaccination and you should ensure that this is done in a timely manner, without delay and suffering. Therefore, Minister, we would like you to tell us what stage the process is and what the timetable for its completion is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u35	Minister, Mr Contozamanis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, you are also a doctor and I think you will agree that in all modern public health systems vaccination is the crown of interventions and produces a public asset that is the collective immunity of the population. Especially in our country this year, because we have the coronary pandemic and we knew that in the seasonal flu the influenza will coexist with the SARS-CoV-2 virus in time. Every year about the end of April, the National Medicines Agency makes orders for vaccines, because you know very well that the production process of a vaccine is complex and, of course, every year, the vaccines are changed because of the strain they contain. We managed to ensure more doses -35% more - of the vaccine for the population this year. We have already ensured four million two thousand doses. Let me remind you that last year there had been three million thousands of doses in the country and two million thousand of the population had been vaccinated. It is delightful that the number of people being vaccinated is increasing. And this figure that we have ensured is sufficient to enable us to create this collective immunity and, as a matter of priority, and systematically to inoculate the vulnerable groups of the population that need to be vaccinated in order to protect themselves with a specific programming. And we have the certainty that the demand will be fully met. The state must ensure the adequacy of vaccines and access to vaccination. There are clear instructions and 35% more vaccines than last year and we are prepared to deal with the two viruses together, both the influenza virus and the coronary virus. We have given clear instructions with the circular that has recently come out with regard to anti-grastimulating vaccination. The National Committee for Vaccines has given its instructions on time for which groups of the population should be vaccinated by priority and the vaccines are already in our country. We have made it clear, in accordance with the committee's directives, that vaccination must start from mid-October, because we all know that the beginning of the flu season is early December. Therefore, the vaccine must be made at that time, so that it can create this immunity wall that we want. I repeat, therefore, that the vaccines are in the country, that their prescribing has begun, that they have been disposed of. Allow me at this point to mention an encouraging element. Last year in relation to the previous year, the number of health subjects vaccinated and belonging to the priority groups of those to be vaccinated was increased. This is an indicator of the effectiveness of the vaccination strategy that we are implementing and a quality indicator of health services, because by protecting our health, we also protect our fellow citizens who come in contact with the health system. It is important this year that we increase even more firstly the rate of health that will be vaccinated. So to conclude, Mr President, we are prepared, the vaccines are here, the directives are clear, there is sufficient and planning to deal both with the flu virus and the coronary pandemic. We'll see how it turns out. The health system is not at its limit at the moment. We have endurance and there is planning to deal with these incidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u37	Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. I would just like to ask you specific questions and give me specific answers. I would like you to tell us what you intend to do about the anti-grain vaccination of people who want to be vaccinated, but are not included in vulnerable groups. There are scientists who say that children over 6 months of age should be vaccinated, either until the age of 5 or until the age of 10-11, as they say in England. Will it be possible to increase the number of vaccines that our country will take if necessary? My second question is this: we have been informed that the electronic prescription for the anti-grain vaccine - which you rightly imposed - will remain open until it is executed, until 30-12-2020. Let us assume, then, that a vaccine that is prescribed today should be carried out immediately, because the doctor who examined the patient and instructed that the anti-grain vaccination should also take responsibility. If a certain period of time has elapsed without the prescribed vaccine being carried out, then who is responsible for vaccination? The pharmacist? Who takes responsibility if side effects occur from the vaccine? The pharmacist? Who will protect this pharmacist from civil liability? Also, can you ensure the smooth flow of vaccines according to prescribing, namely that no phenomena occur when citizens have the prescription in their hands, but there is a lack of vaccines in pharmacies and cannot be supplied in time? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I shall close, Mr President, with one final question. Minister, have you recently visited a structure in primary health care or the external medical services of a large hospital or a regional hospital? Do you think that electronic prescribing can be done at the hospitals, at the external clinics? It's impossible, because at the moment there's a problem with prescribing antibiotics, because in the external medical professions they don't prescribe, they give cardboard and especially after 22.00 hours at night. Another thing I want to tell you is that the weight will actually fall into primary health care. But there will also be a suffering there will be a confrontation among the people to get the susceptible groups to write the vaccine. Shouldn't they then resort to the private doctor? That's where they're going to pay a visit? Have you seen these? A vaccine, that is, it can cost the group that needs to be vaccinated much more expensive than it costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u39	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, I repeat: You are a doctor and you know some things. It is not possible to say it as you say it, because you know a little more about what is happening in medicine than in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u41	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u42	First of all, I should like to answer as far as the children are concerned. There are clear instructions from the National Committee for Vaccines as regards children, for which children should be given vaccines. I read to you: “... children of six months or more and adults with one or more of the following aggravating factors or chronic illnesses...”. And then these diseases are listed. Vaccines can't be blind. He doesn't take every citizen's medicine because that's how he came to get a medicine. The instructions are clear and always under the guidance of the National Committee for Vaccines, the design we have carried out is being carried out. As far as e-prescription is concerned, we left it open until the end of December, because you know very well that a prescription is being performed within a certain period of time. So someone can write the vaccine today. We said, however, that he must begin to do so after 15 October. The five-day validity of the recipe is limited to clearing the recipe by the doctor, but also by our fellow citizens. It does not mean that someone will write the vaccine today and make it ending the year. It is for the sake of service and the world's smooth flow to the pharmacies in order to obtain the vaccine and do so. As far as prescribing the vaccine from public structures are concerned, apart from hospitals, there are primary structures, there are contracted doctors where one can come at no cost. The visit is free, there is no cost for prescribing. You know that very well. As far as vulnerable groups and other population groups are concerned and the fact that there may be a crowd to write the vaccine, I do not think we have seen all years sliding the population to write the vaccine. People know when it's written and we opened the electronic prescription of the vaccine this week, in the last week of September, because we knew that mostly third-age people go to their doctor to write the month's prescription, so along with the month's medications, they're gonna write the vaccine. We did this to serve the world. And let me tell you something else. There is also the process of intangible prescribing, which we have implemented during the pandemic period, for that very reason, to serve the vulnerable groups and do not have the patient's contact with the doctor to write his medicines. So there is an integrated design in order to serve our fellow citizens, who must make the vaccine, in order for the market to function smoothly, not to create crowding issues, and all to roll in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Before we begin the debate on the next question, you will allow me a personal comment. Parliamentary control is very important because, in many cases, such as this timely question, it is also of a pedagogical nature, because it sends messages to society, both from the respondent - and even when it is an expert and a doctor - and from the ministry, why people are waiting through these questions and answers to get messages too. Therefore, topical questions are a very important tool not only to resolve a number of local issues, when they are addressed to Ministers with productive ministries, as much as to issues relating to this topical issue, which concerns pandemic, education and not just education. We continue with the fifth under the number 1078/27-9-2020 current question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr.Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Structurings in the public mental health service system in Eastern Crete during the first year of governance of the New Democracy". The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr Zoe Rapt. Mr. Logiadis has the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, I agree entirely with what you said earlier in your fine position on the topical and urgent questions. But let's go to today's subject. The issue is the malfunctions in the public mental health service system in eastern Crete, Heraklion and Agios Nikolaos, during the first year of governance of the New Democracy. Minister, with our question, we are again seeking to highlight problems in the organisation and operation of the mental health service system in Eastern Crete, one year after our submission of a question under Protocol No 710/16-9-2019, for which we have not received a reply from you after a year. First of all, we would appreciate it if we had a reply to our question. Our position today - question is part of this question, last year. The Psychiatric Clinical of PAGNE, the Regional General Hospital of Heraklion, the only clinic in Eastern Crete, undertakes the important work of treating patients in need of care in the public health system. The Psychiatric Clinic PAGNA belongs to a mobile unit, as we had raised our question in September 2019. By 31 December 2020, this year, five qualified psychiatrists will have left the Psychiatric Clinic in 2018. In the impression and knowledge of those patients who are being examined by this mobile unit, a former member of a PhD - retired on 31-8-2020 - and a former assistant psychiatrist - up to two months ago, who is now a private person - still studying in health centres as members of the mobile unit. Minister, please answer us. Is such peculiarity now the case for the members of the PANGNE Psychiatric Clinic mobile unit, and under what conditions and under what conditions and under what conditions, under which we are not aware of, a former PPC member pension, as well as a private psychiatrist, are offering services to the ESS? Secondly, if this applies, then we can conclude that PANGNE's Mobile Unit, with its specific features of recommendation, is, for your Government, a first-class "experiment" for the implementation of a policy of "hybridisation" public and private sector and academic environment, with the ultimate aim, probably, the gradual transformation of the ESS into NGOs or private bodies or mixed elements. Please answer us if what we are presenting is valid and if our assumptions are identical to the real, unseen to the general public of Crete, the purposes of your Government for the future of the ESS on the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u45	Madam Minister, Mrs Rapt, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, in relation to the honourable Member's question, the problems in the staffing of the National Health System were inherited to our own government by the previous government, namely inherited shortcomings in staff and the situation was much worse than we expected. In fact, especially in the field of mental health, the shortcomings were more than obvious. What our government, and specifically the Ministry, is doing, is making every effort to reverse this situation that we received with the recruitment of subsidiary staff, which we saw in the previous period and during the COVID pandemic -19 were recruited in a very short time, since within three and a half months we managed to have over six and a half thousand auxiliary doctors for the operation of mental health units. The mobile unit, to which the question refers, has been operating since 2013 with doctors, exclusively of the ESS, from the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion. This clinic is a public structure - obviously - and serves four hundred thousand inhabitants. In 2019 he recorded a thousand percent of seventy - nine - day nurses and seven hundred sixty - three voluntary and involuntary hospitalizations. It also serves and operates external medical services and, of course, this mobile unit, which we are talking about. Since 2018 - unfortunately - in the hospital two residents left and were certainly awarded the same number of two members of the Second Psychiatric Clinic as of February. Unfortunately, however, this notice was brutal, since they did not want to serve the psychiatric clinic and, meanwhile, had already been hired, for the needs of the hospital, an auxiliary doctor under contract since 2018. The specific director to whom the question was referred left only thirty days ago. In other words, these thirty days were the clinic, namely the one that runs - as we said - the mobile unit to find other, in order to meet the constant needs that existed. In particular, I should like to say that the mobile unit serves seven health centres in the region of Heraklion and, of course, serves regional medical services and sees more than seven hundred cases per year. Therefore, within one month it was evident that it was at all but unfortunate that the particular doctor, who was also a professor of Psychiatry, was volunteering for the services to be adequately provided. However, this particular mobile unit today essentially operates with the presence and participation of the Deputy Director of the Psychiatric Hospital, of course, two qualified people and therefore operates uninterruptedly and provides the services as before. In relation to the supplementary doctor to whom the question relates - the subsidiary doctor whose contract was actually concluded at the end of July, i.e. about two months before the specific question was raised - steps have been taken by the clinic, so that the provision of No 4486/2017 could be taken in order to provide her services until we can operate and reopen the two posts which, as I said, have become barren. Therefore, there is obviously no intention of privatising or involving individuals or universities in the operation of the ESS, which of course have no such legal relationship of work. Our Government at the moment and with the establishment of the distinct mental health and addiction portfolio, it shows its intention to strengthen the mental health structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u47	Here, Mr Colleague, Mr Loyade, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we fully agree that there are huge deficiencies in the ESS. The only Psychiatric Clinic in Heraklion, PAGNI is for the entire Eastern Crete. There's no one in Lassithi's psychiatric clinic at all. It would be right to set up a psychiatric clinic in Agios Nikolaos first and then have mobile units in Lassithi Prefecture. There are two private psychiatrists and three of the RIS, but there's no clinic for hospitality. All these people must go to Heraklion. For 15 years, all governments have been evangelizing and announcing the establishment of a clinic in Agios Nikolaos, but nothing has happened, and we denounce this as Mera25. As you said, two places have been opened for the Psychiatric Clinic of PAGNE, but no one went to declare interest. Why didn't he go to say interesting? Many factors are problematic. People are problematic, because there are no financial, scientific incentives for young doctors of the ESS and because of this continuous decomposition and reorganisation of PAGNE’s Psychiatric Clinical, young doctors are afflicted by their interest. We therefore consider that we are deporting the ESS and privatising it. With the mobile unit yes, although it sounds nice that we are going inland but that the central unit of PAGNE is completely deorganized. And so this results in a reduction in the quality of service. Here I would stress that in Crete we have a lot of traffic, which is why there is an inappropriate treatment of such mental diseases as bipolar disorder. I would like to give you the programme of this mobile unit for March 2019, which eleven times went from Heraklion to various areas. This mobile unit normally goes to rough areas and mountains. We are talking here about areas such as the Hersonissos and various other places, which are not even mountainous and sloppy. I would also like to point out to you the question of whether these patients, who are visiting this mobile unit, sign the consent form, that, in their knowledge, this investigation is being done and agree on this, because I, as far as I know, are a small society. Both doctors and relatives and all friends and patients have not signed such a consent form. You're a lawyer and you know very well what that means. I am afraid, therefore, that in this case without the approval of the patients being examined, their data will be presented as a scientific work produced. And with your partnership - which you want to activate and sell the ESS, in our opinion - the mobile unit will be converted into NGOs or into something else of private interest. That is what we believe is an excellent example, an experiment to become private. We as a PART25 stress and want an excellent and functional National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Rapti has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u50	In turn, I would like to reiterate and reaffirm the conviction of the Ministry of Health and, in particular, the specific competence, my own, mental health, to strengthen the structures of the ERC. This aid to Crete is progressing progressively, but is progressing at a rate that is stable and will give results in more fronts as soon as possible. In particular, in the Law of Heraklion, an effort is being made to extend the Acids Unit, to expand psychiatric hospitals and to expand PANGNI's Paediatric Paediatric Clinic. In addition, there is in progress, in cooperation with the Region, the completion of the operation of the Dementia Unit, which we had put into the scaffolding the previous period, in order to have in Heraklion a Alzheimer dementia unit to deal with the incidents there as well. Similar actions, Mr President, have also been launched to mature the study of the development of the Psychiatric Clinic at the General Hospital of Agios Nikolaos, to which you referred, Mr Loyadis, while efforts are also on the stools for the General Hospital of Chania, so it is clear that we intend to strengthen the existing structures of the ESS. Of course, because you referred to the mobile unit, you mentioned two issues. One is how many visits this Psychiatric Mobile Unit made in March - if I heard well - 2020. It's obvious that we started and ran into the pandemic period. The figures do not have them at the moment, but the reality is that everyone knows that during the pandemic there was no possibility of broad movement and participation by a greater part of the population. As far as the question you raised is concerned, if we get the consent of the incidents that they are examining, what I know from the director of the health region is that their presence is very useful there. Obviously, those procedures, which are required by law, are respected, but precisely the operation of this unit is imperative and must be done as far as possible, because it serves the circumstances which, due to the well-known position, will never come to be examined at the Psychiatric General Clinical of Heraklion Hospital. Therefore, the necessary conditions are met, the incidents are recorded, and, of course, the next time there will be an effort to visit many more homes, because houses are visiting, in collaboration with the Deputy Director of the Psychiatric Hospital and the qualified psychiatrists who now manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. The fourth question will be discussed with number 1070/21-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary Seres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "The establishment of a structure of the Hospitable Immigrants in Montenegro (Kara Tepe), Lesbos in terms of poor, environmentally and in terms of security". The Minister for Immigration and Asylum will answer Mr. Metarakis. Mr Bouba, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a very serious matter and it is about the legal procedures required to make this placement. There is a sadness, an indignation, a concern to the inhabitants of Lesbos and since you are an islander, you know that islanders are really patient people, they are people struggling in closed societies, who are currently fighting to survive and hold Thermopylae. It is a good thing, of course, that Lesvos shows a population increase despite the demographic problem in Greece in recent years, by 1,87%. According to a report from the Northern Aegean Technical Chamber of Commerce - because I do not say it, but there are people who have seen the process of law -, L.4375/2016 and Articles 8 and 10 provide that we can go to a land use change when the national interest demands. There is, of course, the amendment after - without being a lawmaker, but as a journalist, I share this concern of my fellow Members in Lesvos - of Law 4485/2017 which provides for a change in land use, but here is an illegitimate energy on the part of the state in terms of placement. Because you cannot overcome Law 4014/2011, a law which provides that, in order to make the change in land use and to be exempt from the legal framework for reasons of national interest, there should be a public consultation, that there should be the legal procedure required by the legal framework as determined and also sufficient publicity. This has not been done for the region of Montenegro or Kara Tepe - its Greek name is Montenegro - in order to make this place of three hundred and fifty acres with thousands of souls that will be hosted there, but also with concern of the locals, the inhabitants of Lesbos, because this site must be licensed for environmental impact after a consultation by the competent Regional Council, by the Consultation Committee, by the Archaeological Service, the National Archaeological Service, by the Antiquities Authority. So, you realize we can't talk today about cayalo smack, because it's a cayal smack. Here is a report from the Technical Chamber of Commerce. If a single citizen does that, you realize he's a felony. Here are some photos of Lesvos site showing the jam of this particular spot. So you must answer and why you did not follow this procedure. I understand that there is study in order to put the project in place for other reasons, as you say, of national interest, against an area of the highest strategic importance, as it is an active field of firing. So why not observe, like all the citizens and all the competent authorities, Law 4014/2011, since Lesvos is on the world network as far as the geoparents are concerned. This is an island that has been characterised by UNESCO on the world heritage as rare and also a point of top strategic national importance. This is where the n was violated. 4014/11 as far as the sanctuary is concerned. So why have you not complied with the envisaged legal procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, I think your question is outside of what happened in Lesvos at the beginning of September. The arson of the existing structure in Moria at a time when coronary cases had already been confirmed after two thousand targeted checks by the EGE created a double crisis. There were thousands of homeless people who took Mytilini's main coastal road, as you know, and there was a risk that pandemic cases might be multiplied, as it was, because in the final check we made at the time of entering tens of thousands of asylum seekers into the temporary hospitality structure in Montenegro more cases were found than were initially found in Moria. We have therefore moved into an emergency situation and implemented the legislation laid down in such cases. Our first priority was to protect the security of all, the local communities and the residents. Our second priority was to protect the public health of all, and of local communities and residents, and also to prevent the supply of feeding, water and medical care to asylum seekers in Lesvos. So, we moved at a speed that was unprecedented for international humanitarian data and all the people on the road, who came from the burnt area of the Morias FYROM, to a temporary accommodation - I stress the temporary accommodation - in an area that was immediately granted by the Armed Forces and in an adjacent private area that was bordering without fence between the military structure and the private area, due to the need to immediately place all the residents, which has already been done safely. And I want to tell you that in total, the residents of Lesvos, who at some point reached more than twenty-two thousand, in the next few days will be under ten thousand and this change is within 2020. Over half the people in Lesvos have left, recognizing what the government said first, that they cannot raise the crisis. With regard to the legal issues you raise: The structure is licensed for placement and construction, as provided for in the existing legislation on temporary accommodation structures, published on 14 September in issue 2, sheet number 3926 of the Official Journal of the Government, which I shall submit in the Minutes. I will also submit to the minutes an earlier decision of 9 September 2020 in issue 2, Text Number 3840 of the Government Journal, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, where at the request of the North Aegean Regional Authority, Lesvos was in an emergency. Consequently, on each environmental issue, Law 4014/2011, which I read to you in Article 1(2)(a), read you what it says - and I close with it - was implemented: "Projects and activities serving the purposes of national defence, as well as projects or activities required for the immediate response of natural disasters, are excluded from the application of this Law". So the issues you have raised and the procedures you have proposed for an emergency need do not apply under the law that you have invoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u55	Here, Mr Buba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you do not cover the report of the Chamber of Commerce, because there are specialists too. It's a different matter. Firstly, we are talking about an area which is an active firing area by 2025. We are talking about an area that is three kilometers from the capital of Lesbos, Mytilini, while the previous one was at a greater distance, so it is close to the local society that is densely populated, with what that implies. We're talking about a place where PPC's factory is located, but primarily the National Information Service is located. Many times as a Greek Solution we have told you that with the placement that takes place near military bases or some other geostrategicly very important locations there is a risk of anything, for any interference with the National Intelligence Service. We're talking about cavalry. We're talking about natural beauty. I understand the speed at which you had to act to cover this fact of the local, we would say explosion there - and rightly so - by the people of Lesvos. However, we are talking about the third population island in Greece and the third to an extent, with a thousand six hundred and thirty square meters and four hundred ninety-seven kilometers of coastline. In other words, the street of Athens-Thessalonica, to say so. Couldn't have been a placement there? So why did it happen at this particular point, which, based on the fact that it is an active firing area, is also at the advanced positioning limit? And that is what you know very well that it plays an important geostrategic role for the Armed Forces and, most importantly, for the times that we are experiencing with the neighbouring country, Turkey. At this point you gave high rents to plots rented by the public, which are adjacent to Montenegro or Kara Tepe, as the name, Turkish, is at least known. But "Montenegro" is the right word. And, indeed, these touch high rents. There is talk of reports that the fields and land that are adjacent to us, in order to expand the population structure, belong to former local rulers. Who, then, is the person responsible for pointing out this particular site, which is of the utmost strategic importance as an active sphere of firing and within the ERC building? Why was the placement just three kilometers from Mytilini, where there are local businesses in the wider region? Why are you renting a high price and rent for the fields and land that are adjacent? Because the rent will be up to 2025. No more permanent in the country. So this is where we're talking about going to procat, going to permanent residences. So you realize you can't say about a temporary home accommodation for foreigners and illegal people there. So you're putting a time horizon at least until 2025. They are questions that need to be answered in the local society, which is being put, they have a sadness, an indignation, an anger. You're an islander, you understand that. Why is this particular space, which is at a neural reference point as an advanced positioning limit within the NSA? In fact, by direct delegation of the project, due to need. Four hundred cubic meters of concrete, four miles of fence. And you rent the next-door fields, with rents that touch the 3 million euros. You realize that these questions are important that come from the local society of Lesvos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you have raised very interesting questions. First of all, why was the place chosen? That's a very good question. The Minister of Interior, Mr Theodorikos, had come to Mytilini the previous choice of the site. We held a long time meeting with the two elected Mayors of Mytilini and Western Lesvos and the Vice-President responsible for immigration. I remind you that on that day the District Officer was in quarantine because of a case in his professional space. Different alternatives have been proposed, far from the city, in various places. There was a universal rejection of every proposal from all those present. They discussed no solution other than that everyone would come and be immediately transferred to mainland Greece the next day, which was impossible and would create huge security issues in other structures. I don't want to go on this. On the same day, you realise that it is not possible to make it or to do so, because it will be desirable for new flows. So we had to choose an area where refugees were next. And they were already in the space outside Kara Tepe. So there was no need for a complex transport with dozens of buses of all of them at some point. And we entered an area that was state-owned and we could get in at the same time. That is why this space has been selected, which is temporary. The Municipality of Mytilini has made some specific proposals for another area. I want to assure you that the country is not in danger. National security is not at risk. It has not changed the credibility of the Armed Forces since the occupation of a field of attack, which, as you said, is of the highest national security. You said it was the NSA there. I'm guessing you don't want to tell me where the NSA is. Where is the NSRF and where is not the NSF is a national issue, and it is not a matter of talking about it in public. If it's the NSA there, it's not. I also want to tell you that we, as a government, proposed in February that we leave Moria, because it is indeed close to the urban fabric and go to Karava. We would have avoided the unregulated structure, which is a risk. Unrealistic structures do have a risk of public health safety. The government had tabled a comprehensive proposal. Unfortunately, I remind you - not to return - then what had happened. We are therefore waiting for the proposal of Mayor Mytilini to leave Kara Tepe. However, because you said about the environment, I would like to tell you that it's a little oxymobile to talk about environment in a field of firing. I mean, where we throw bombs, we talk about an environment. You realize that by the nature of a firing field it is environmentally burdened. It wasn't a forest of natural good. It was a point that the Armed Forces used for shots. Let us keep this in mind and for those who are watching us. Two lately. Firstly, no direct award was made. I don't know why you mentioned it. The Army did most of the work and the rest of the work was done by a company which had already been contracted, after a competitive procedure, with the Ministry months ago, so that it could perform any works needed for fence and earthworks. So there was no direct assignment and a lot of projects that are being done are paid by the European Commission directly through international organisations, without intervening with the Greek State, neither in the choice or in the management of the funds. So there's no assignment. But let's go to the last thing you said, wrongly, that we hired - you say - an area for many years with a large rent. No rent, no land, no rent. If there were, you would've found it at the "DOWN". What we did, when the decision was made, was a commitment. For accounting reasons, we committed an amount to the national budget on the basis of an estimate that existed. Now to be rented, there's got to be a process. There must be a special assessment of this region, it may be less than the commitment made, and the area will be leased for a short period of time, because the aim is to go somewhere else. So national security is not at risk, and the environmental conditions have been fully implemented as provided for in existing legislation and we are temporarily there and no direct assignment has been given. But we have faced, and I would like to say this again, a major crisis in a few days' time, drastically reducing the impact on local society. I hope that with the dialogue that the government has been trying for many months, we will end up in safe structures outside the urban fabric, which will not be burdened by local societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. We are completing the cycle of today's topical questions with the last question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabajis. This is the second question, under number 1077/25-9-2020, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Larisa, of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Direct reinforcement of the farmers of Thessaly affected by the Janus”. Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, you know very well that we have a tragic account, a tragic juncture. What to say and what to describe in a post - revealing time when everything shows that they come and surround the Ark of Noah! That's what's left of our towns. And I bring you this picture from Thessaly, with the four hundred thousand acres flooded, with the rural world in despair, with biblical disasters of a total character now, of an irreversible state. And above all, before all, it must also be said from the Step of the House that we are most important to us that we have lost four people. Because this cannot be done again in any way and by no means be reversed. Madam Undersecretary, outside the context of regular disaster response, you understand that here your ministry has a neuro-algal role of key importance. Apart from the measures in every catastrophe that hits our land and agricultural crops, it is very important that during the harvest period, at the heart of the harvest - with these areas most of them being covered by cotton crops, corn crops and clover - we suffered this great disaster. I don't know if you've visited the area, Madam Secretary, and if you have a private perception of things. I say this because we also have the complaint that the Prime Minister of the country in the Farsala did not find them on his map, he did not stop, as did the President of the Police Department. Only the President of the Change Movement found the Farsala on the map, which suffered a shocking disaster. So what we wanted to say to you, apart from the same perception that you have created - which is why the role of autopsy in such disasters - is that only in Farshalla have a hundred and fifty thousand acres, twenty-five flocks and three large farms. And, unfortunately, the next day is absolutely uncertain. I attended a number of meetings that you held at the Ministry with great interest. I want to believe that it is one of these conferences that want to give a solution and not of the meetings that are being held to get the press releases out. So we and the farmers are looking forward to hearing today about the integrated plan and the emergency measures, outside the framework of the ELGA, which are already being granted in cases of other disasters, because here we have something super-world, revealing, unique, unprecedented, unfortunately for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u61	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u62	First of all, Madam President, it goes without saying that we all express our grief and condolences to the deceased. I would like to make it clear from the outset that for the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and at this juncture, as in the other crises, the major ones, which we are successfully managing and confronted with, are now the time of work and not party controversy. In our worthy system, my fellow Member, there is no point in being more sensitive than the other. And I would stress this because, unfortunately, from the major opposition attempted an unspeakable political exploitation, a slip of which I am sure - and I see it - that you and your party will not suffer, of course. Because, my fellow Member, you will have no objection to the fact that people in the affected areas currently need us next to them, and the question is that they feel that they have the organized state, the coordinate, organised state. That is why we were there, and we were there, as we were due, from the very beginning. I think you are wrong with the Prime Minister, who has commanded the first time that a competent government step should be taken at the same time as the disaster has evolved. The Prime Minister himself, accompanied by the relevant ministers, visited the region, held a series of substantive meetings, made specific and targeted announcements and gave clear and explicit instructions. And you will allow me to say here that the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, did not know Thessaly after the naturality. He had visited her on several occasions as Chief of Officerial Responsibility. He has toured all over Thessaly. I was accompanying him, in fact, as a member of the party at the time, and I have a private viewpoint. The Prime Minister, then, gave, by coming to the site of the disaster, explicit commands for strong reflexes and remarkable speeds. I also underline this on the substance of the matter, but also because, in your question, you refer to characteristic deficiencies, bureaucratic claws, to the usual mechanisms of compensation for the ELGA. Mr Colleague, none of the things you say is going to happen. The procedures followed and the goal set by our Prime Minister and Ministry are for express procedures. So the Minister, Mr. Voridis, was on the spot, along with the Prime Minister. ELGA President, Mr Lykourenzos, as well as the Vice-President for a week, was in the region coordinating the workshops and the documentary process. The Vice President is again in Karditsa and will be there, in Thessaly, for a week, and the Deputy Interior Minister is also on his way. Let me note at this point that the objective of speeding up the assessments, together with their utmost credibility, has mobilised an additional experienced geotechnical staff at the branch of Thessaly. There are already thirty additional evaluators there, which will reach fifty, and I was only informed yesterday by the President of ELGA, Mr Lykurenzos, that he approved EUR 300,000 for the travel and travel of all this mechanism. So the submission of declarations, which, as you know, expires on 5 October, has begun. It has already been given - to have the possibility of crossing at the same time - by the OPEKEPE the record of the declarations to 'run' at the same time cross-checking, while the assessment procedure has been initiated in adverse circumstances, as you know, my colleague. For the speed of the assessment process and therefore compensation, the area in terms of plant production has been divided into areas: in those where there is a disaster of 100% - the data we have spoken about thirty-three hundred and fifty-three thousand acres of cotton - where overall estimates will be carried out with the help of the technology of course and the CoPERNICUS system, and those that have carried out a 50-mile damage. As far as livestock is concerned, the record of loss in the area of Thessaly is almost complete and priority will be given to compensation for affected livestock farmers. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, because people were faced not only with the destruction of their livestock, but also with the health bomb that was being used for the stay of the dead animals in the field, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of what the Veterinary Directorate has told us, animal burial has been completed in accordance with the protocols on livestock holdings and for what animals have unfortunately been misled and drowned, the burial process is under way. In conclusion, on Monday afternoon at our Ministry - as is the case every time - a substantial meeting with the Board. the ELGA and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, who has taken over the 'January' package as a whole, with the aim - as I am going to develop in my dentistry - to act very promptly, in a record time, on the payment of compensation provided for in the regulation, on the activation of the mechanism of State aid at similar speeds and our will - I want you to keep this - is to pay more quickly than our farmers and farmers are expecting today. I say this and I conclude that, due to the extraordinary weather phenomena and this great catastrophe, the estimated fees of 300 thousand euros have not only been requested, but they will not, in the end, be netted out as yet an indication of practical understanding and support for the affected producers, our affected people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u63	Mrs Lykolis has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u64	Madam Minister, I would listen to you for another 10 minutes, both farmers and farmers and the whole world because our house is burning, as you can see. And that's not for impress. Now you have said something about the Opposition, but understand that I am not in opposition. You want to tell someone else, you found me in front of me, you told me. You do well to talk about it. Look, I'm not going to tell you or not about the responsibilities. Let justice do her job. The prosecutor of Carditsa was fine, for the first time in time after the largest and twice the water flood in 1994, water entered the city. Then he hadn't entered, now he came in, and we have a biblical landscape with some stones where and where in the mud reminding us that they were homes. To explain, that is, and not to get us wrong, to know what we're talking about. We will not move the finger to the government, we will not create shocks in the shock of destruction, struggling procedures, but at the end we will leave this chapter open, to come back in due course. Now, my Minister, let me start at the end. You said about the estimated fee of 300,000. It's friendly, it's good. What can I tell you now that this measure you took is bad? Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. What can I get? As you did on the first day of the communication on the suspension of legal and tax measures, which, anyway, are also valid for those who read the scriptures in the House, it also applies to COVID. What do you get from the ruined man? Get what? Would you get him something that you don't get from the areas that have been declared'red' areas from COVID? What can I say? Let me not comment on this measure. This question you saw that it was precisely the third day after the disaster. I put my slippers back in the area. I didn't do it to the voters. I went to Karditsa. I'm not elected there, I'm elected in Larissa. So I went to Farsala. That's where the Prime Minister wasn't, how do we do it now? He had to point it on the map and sit there on people. It's a pure rural area. You should have come. Shouldn't you? And you and the Minister and the Prime Minister, all of you come in there, when the other one is destroyed, erased, dies, ends. You'll be with him. Aren't you going to be with him? This, however, is your issue, how you manage politics. That's your issue. I only express my opinion here, always well-meaning, believe me. Look, this is where we didn't come here to blame anyone. We have come to tell you, however, that the thing cannot go through with the ELGA procedures. You say that I raise within my timely question that there are problems, that there are delays. Don't you know them? Now what am I gonna do? Am I going to break open doors to the State Secretary, who every day hears? Compensation for two and two and a half years? Compensation, which has caused despair in other previous disasters by hailing, etc. You know it. What can I tell you now? Break this big, central, open door? Therefore, the ELGA system cannot compensate for the rural and livestock world of the area affected by the 'January'. They're talk-stages, and they're simple. It's over! You need to find another plan. And my question, for which I expect to hear your answer, is this: What is the government's integrated plan to deal with disasters? All right, you said what the damage the farmer, every wound in the area has suffered. But tell me, what is the integrated plan and how will people be sowing again in four months, once we have two meters of water in the fields? How, then, will you reconstruct crops and livestock production in the area of Thessaly? It's just things. Are you taking the initiative at your Ministry? Who are you waiting for? Institutional bodies? That is why I said about a committee, not to throw it at the bells, that we are many together, but no one takes over. Has your Ministry undertaken this very serious, in my opinion, the most serious job to be done? Finally, I want to tell you this: there are, in addition to uncertainty, desperation and bitterness. You understand all that, Minister, I think we're not fighting for sensitivity. Your sensitivity is given, you said it in the hole of your speech. Stay away from me like that. Daphnes to all those who try, good to everyone honestly. But Christmas is coming. Producers are paid in November, and in one month we have Christmas, in the state of COVID and with people not having to pay their farm medicines, with farmers not being able to produce one kilo of milk. That's just how it is. So, when we talk about procedures and a comprehensive plan, we are talking, firstly, about compensation, certainly before Christmas, and secondly, about an integrated plan, which you must draw up on your own initiative. Otherwise, the silence I have heard in the last ten days on the subject of the comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of the countryside and of Thessaly is devouring me. I'm waiting, Madam Secretary, for your answer, to start listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u65	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your dentistry, and we will conclude the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I have said in my prototype, and I repeat, because what matters is our affected fellow citizens, who are currently listening to us and waiting to hear specific things about their relief, that, on a Prime Minister's mandate and with a project from the Ministry, they will be compensated earlier than our producers expect. And I would like to explain that for the first time we will do what is needed to give a generous advance in the compensation that farmers are entitled to. It's a brave advance, my colleague! An advance that will work in very short time comfortably on the one hand and a race, my colleague, on the other hand, so that all the compensation can be paid in full. In fact, as the Prime Minister said, when we have the final assessment of the damage, which is making superhuman efforts, the ELGA, if necessary, will be strengthened by the state budget in order to address the damage in accordance with the insurance regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u67	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u68	With regard to the advance payment, with the closure of the declarations on October 5, ELGA is intensified, so that immediately after the completion of cross-checks, i.e. the comparison with the crop declarations, the ELGA has already received, as I said, the record of OPECE so as not to lose a minute, the mechanism of payment can be quickly activated. I would like to make a very good and clear point here, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. We do and we will do everything we can to strengthen the real wounded by fast track procedures, by triggering mechanisms such as global assessments, using technology as I have told you, but this must in no way be an opportunity to deceive. Because such behaviour harms - and I am sure you agree - not only the public interest, but they harm the producers themselves, farmers, livestock farmers, beekeepers. Why? They slow down procedures with statements which do not in fact respond to and remove from those who are actually affected a fairer and more comprehensive compensation, because the money, as you can see, is neither unreserved nor endless. We will therefore be very strict on this issue of comparison. I repeat - a brave advance, but there will also be strict final control. In order to avoid misunderstanding, we are sure - and I say this and stress this - that there will be no such behaviours, but we would like to be clear from the outset. With regard to non-covered losses, plant and sanitary waste, warehouses - feed, there is a record with the help of the spatial and thematic counter-regions, with the assistance of the municipalities, requested by the Prime Minister himself, with the presence of the present and we will exhaust all possible European regulations on state financial aid, so that it can also be activated there, Madam President, advance payments and, in any event, the immediate repayment as far as possible. I would also remind you - because you said that there have been damages which have not been compensated for for two and a half years - because I want us to be objective in this Chamber that we are the government that has paid back all the losses of the previous year, namely 2019, within the current year, in 2020. And we are the only government, Madam President, who, after ten years of enacted Article 7(1) of Regulation 3877 of the ELGA, so that 20% of the applications for insurance premiums, that is, 35 million euros, will be provided for the first time after ten years in the ELGA budget by releasing funds for the affected. All compensation payments for 2019 have been completed for the first time after years. I close, reassuring all those affected who came against the bad face of the "Jan" of mythology, that, as the Prime Minister said, it is time for us to show our good face and take care of our people. It is time to be fast, to be present, as we are present and to be effective. I imagine that you do not doubt that such readiness has been demonstrated in the region and all reflexes have been activated in order to be quick, fair and effective. I close, repeating that our producers will be paid sooner than they expect, to operate relievingly this for the local society, for the local economy. Because when there is a farmer with income, the whole cycle of the economic chain, as you know, is also activated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the following questions will not be discussed in consultation: The second under number 1089/28-9-2020 is a timely question for the first cycle of MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled “Direct restoration of extensive damage to the infrastructures of the Municipality of Almyros”. The third, with number 1081/28-9-2020, is a second time question from the Member of the Elias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Bridge Programme is ineffective for weak borrowers". Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We will be adjourning our meeting by 12 noon, so that we can continue with the special agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Please all of you sit on the benches and at a distance. Before we proceed to immunity, let me first make two announcements to this House. They are both from 30 September 2020. Firstly, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure presents its report to the proposal by the President of Parliament "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament Part II and Part Parliament". Secondly, the Ministers for Home Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, and the State Ministers for Culture and Sport submitted on 29 September 2020 a draft law on "Amendment Code of Greek citizenship, a new framework for the selection of administrations in the public sector, the regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of the Human Resources Public Sector of the Ministry of the Interior, arrangements for the development prospects and the proper functioning of the Local Authorities. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Andreas Patsi and Sultanas Eleftheriadou. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 16 September 2020, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Andreas Patsi's immunity. Also, by the same committee, namely the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, the report was announced on 16 September 2020, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the lifting of the immunity of Ms Sultana Eleftheriadou. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or by resuming the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b) of the Rules of Procedure. The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. A letter of vote has been sent to Parliament's groups for those Members who wish to vote and cannot attend the sitting because of restrictive measures against the coronary. Already enough lettering has come to the Secretariat. The first case concerns Mr Andreas Patsi. Is Mr. Patsy here? It's not. Mrs. Eleftheriadou is here. Let's change the order a little - it's okay - until Mr. Patsy arrives. The second case - we change a little bit - does not matter, since my colleague is here - concerns my colleague Mrs Sultana Eleftheriad. In the second case, Mrs Eleftheriadou does not wish to speak, but she has asked for immunity to be waived. Right, Mrs. Eleftheriadou? If you want to tell the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u72	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u73	Indeed, in committee, Mrs Eleftheriadou called for the waiver of immunity, because she wants justice to be given by the ordinary courts. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor on this matter by Mrs Eleftheriadou? Oh, no. Mr. Patsi is here. Both actions are for slandering and some. But Mr Patsi too, by letter to the committee, did not come to committee - he asked our committee to waive immunity so that he could also be judged by the criminal courts. Is there a colleague who wants to talk about Mr. Patsy's case? No, there's no colleague. So we're moving on. The vote shall include two cases of waiver of immunity. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one you should press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials responsible may assist you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u75	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome my French colleagues. Today we have a special agenda, which concerns the waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament for offences allegedly committed, and we have requests from the competent public prosecutor to waive immunity. The whole process is over, the Members concerned have spoken and the votes are currently being counted. Of course, we have an electronic system, but because of the coronary, the House has decided not to come here, but to vote by letter, as is done in the European Parliament and in most European parliaments. Currently counting the letter vote. For our fellow Greek Members and for those who are in the Venetian Parliament, the colleagues who are accompanied by the head of Greek MEPs Mr Meimarakis are French MEPs who are in Greece. Mr President, Mr Maymarakis, I am pleased to hear that we will soon have them in my special homeland, Lesvos. I will obviously see them there, too, when we inform them of the situation in immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members, Mr Andreas Patsi and Mr Sultanas Eleftheriadou. A total of 236 Members voted on the first case by Mr Andreas Patsi. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 236 Members voted. In the case of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NOV', no one voted. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted unanimously. A total of 232 Members voted on the second case by Mrs Sultanna Eleftheriadou. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 231 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OR', he voted 1 Member. "PARON" voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-30-S1-commons.u78	With the consent of Parliament at 13.08 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 1 October 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) legislative work: firstly, only discussion and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence represented by the Hellenic Republic's Hellenic Air Force regarding the reciprocal supply of fuels, secondly, only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Defence of National Defence - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, represented by the Hellenic Civil Aviation on the mutual provision of fuels, secondly, only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Move the Agreement and Mutual Service" (Applying) between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the United Nations.
