ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Developing an institutional framework for the antiquities of sports actors, distinguishing escorts of athletes Immediately, setting up a National Platform of Sport Integrity, Hellenic Olympic Committee (E.E.)., Greek Paralympic Committee (E.R.) and other provisions.’; It is also known to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday 18 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1030/14-9-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Taking up problems for the nodes of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in Agia Pelagia, Achlada and Lygaria". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1035/14-9-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The releases of the nursery of the Municipality of Peristeri, recently taken through a programme for the unemployed, to be replaced by other still economical unemployed". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Marag redundancies in private schools following the adoption of the new law on private education". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vasilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "Suspension of the operation of the Ellassona Dairy School". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Rodopi of Change Movement Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘Exclusion of a diploma from the AUG/2019 notice’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports "Reforming an institutional framework of the antiquities of sports organizations, distinguished athletes, setting up a National Platform of Sport Integrity, Hellenic Olympic Committee (E.E.)., Greek Paralympic Committee (E.R.) and other provisions.’; The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 10 September 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. I imagine that so far there is no objection and I have the assent of the House. An objection of anti-constitutionality has been lodged by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Loverdos. I would ask that she be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs of all the parties in order to have her in front of them, although Mr Loverdos will develop exactly what he means on the basis of the articles he refers to. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of presenting this objection under Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. My objection is to Article 6(7), at least as it was in the draft law. I do not know if there has been a change in the last version of the draft law. 'No' says the Minister. I'm on it. It has a recent history of this provision since last year, in 2019, which passed an almost identical provision with a change that you have now made, not on this subject, but on people with disabilities. You've changed a term. Then the retrospectiveness of electoral conditions for the President of the federation was criticised. Three complete or unfulfilled terms were defined, without indicating whether or not this will apply from now on or whether it has retroactive effect. That's a vote. This same provision shall be re-established and the objection, which shall be based, as a minimum, on three constitutional provisions, on Article 5(1) concerning the freedom of persons, Article 12(1) relating to the right of citizens, of people in general, to establish unions and Article 16(9), the Sport Article of the Constitution. He can't do whatever the Minister wants. It is not Parliament's area of personal policy. The legislative initiative of the Government and of each Minister is limited. In this regard, I do not want to take part in my main speech on the parties' correlations in the field of sport, which are behind fine words about renewal or about a different concept of management of sport. The shredding's behind all this. The self-defence of sports feds has been discussed in this Chamber tens of times with the Deputy Sports Secretarysmans who have made smart and got Greece involved in adventures and are being ridiculed at the end with football. Now this expands and goes to all sports. I'll tell my speech a lot. But before I speak, Mr President, to the limits of my authority to object, I say to you: in Article 16(9), the special article on sport is a first paragraph, which stipulates that sport is under the highest supervision of the State. He doesn't run the Ministry of Sports. It's not the Ministry's decision how to run sport. It is the highest, the most distant, and immediately the same article in its next paragraph states that the State grants and controls. Over here, surveillance is not superior, but it's immediate, because it gives money and wants to know where the money is going. Another is to give money and to want the state to know how its money is being used and another to run sport, as it is trying to do today with Article 6(7). Unconstitutionalism is obvious. It is noted by the federations that it is noted by the International Olympic Committee that makes a special reference to Mr Augariani by a personal letter sent to him. Mr President, we are not going to accept as the Hellenic Republic and as a Parliament to be humiliated, to vote for a provision that we should not take back in different ways. I call on the Minister to withdraw it, not to allow the House to be humiliated and, above all, the parliamentary group to which he himself has the honour to belong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u4	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u5	No, no dialogue, please. Go on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I can't hear what you're saying. I'd love to hear you and answer you later. If you insist, you will rise up to some people for a while, toward them, I do not know how you will feel when you get them back. I was told by my colleagues, Mr Constantopoulos, that this provision has been in force since 2019 and has not been affected. No act has been adopted to insult you. I don't know who's disgusting in this House. The law is not offended by constitutional objections, Mr. Undersecretary. Administrative act should be adopted. This will be insulted and will therefore be affected by the law. When you have elections with this provision - ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, listen to it - when there are elections to the federations, no people will observe this provision, and when they try to enforce their law, constitutionality will be offended and cases won. So I call on you, because I am not used to the constitutional objections, to be very strict, but because I see the article and see its evolution, to take a courageous initiative today, and to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u7	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u8	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u9	Minister, there is a president who runs the debate. No dialogue between you two!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u10	You're talking behind the mask and I don't hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u11	In any case, they are not written in the Minutes. Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u12	You'll talk to me as I speak to you. I speak nicely, that's my choice. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I urge the majority to stand as it should be. It is not allowed - and I close - for any reason, which is about how the alpha or beta or the gamma federation should be run, which is about faces, big at age, young people, young people and old people, with everything that is not allowed, because we see alpha or beta or gamble, to bring to Parliament anti-constitutional provisions. This provision must be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to ask the floor on the subject raised by Mr Lovers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u14	Your turn will come after Mr. Economou. You're a second party, Mr. Skourletis, you're not the first. The government's responding now. We continue the process with our new colleague Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, Mr. Loverdos knows that I respect him and appreciate him. I listened carefully to what he said, but I'm afraid we're in front of a shot failure. And I want to explain. He admitted that what we are discussing today is the law that we passed ten months ago in November 2019. The recasting of the article, as it imposes and knows very well, I believe that Mr.4622/2019 himself, the so-called "law on the executive state", obliges ministers and gives shape so that, when there is an amendment to an article, the article can be reprinted from the outset. So today we are called on to talk about an objection to the unconstitutionality of a law that already exists. That's unprecedented. This is unprecedented in the process of objections to anti-constitutionalism. The law has been in place for ten months. I listen very carefully to what is being said, but be careful: those affected had ten months to appeal to the courts. You will tell me that there are no administrative acts. I listened very carefully. They could find the way and have the way, because they have richly paid legal staff, challenge unconstitutionality, and they could actually find their point if there is right in this case. Why didn't they? Do you know why they didn't do it, Mr. President? Because they would find very serious judgments in front of them by the Greek courts, who are also talking about the right of terms and the right to age limits. I mention, for example, the decision 669/2010 of the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki, which concerns the association of journalists and which says very clearly that the creation of an age limit does not affect the individuality of the candidate, that is to say, 5.1, nor prohibit the exercise of the journalistic profession or the refusal of the trade union to register a member who has exceeded the age limit, is not contrary to the law, statutes or morals, nor is it abusive. We'll say if it's abusive or age-old provision. And lawyers, births, 2519/2018 recent decision of the Council of State. Do there have to be births? Are the terms of the constitution? Please read the decision of the Council of State and you will understand. And it's about legal applications. Do we have aborts or an age limit so far, elsewhere? Of course we do. In the prefectures, we have terms of law and age, not to say about international experience, whether it is called the ILO, or whether it is said in sport in France, Germany, which is the seventeen years, or other restrictions, which are made for what? He says it's for reasons of public interest. Very nice said Mr. Loverdos that there is a 16, paragraph 9 of the Constitution. What's he saying? That there is surveillance, control and grant of sports by the state. Let me tell you: do we have places for approved teachers and prescribers on this subject, which have created a rich literature, which supports this view put forward by the government? What can I tell you? Chrysanos - Vlachopoulou. Should I mention what they're saying? ‘The State’s control of associations of sports clubs, as laid down in the law, justifies State interventions in them which could otherwise be regarded as being subject to the freedom of association laid down in Article 12 of the Constitution.’ I'm talking about 12(1). Spyropoulos, Kontiadis, Anthopoulos, Gerapetritis, very serious interventions: "The special constitutional reference to the state control of sports associations seems to exclude these associations from the protection of 12.", dear colleague, as mentioned in 12. Should I say about Mr. Papadimitriou? He was very serious about his speeches and his places. Not to mention them, 'cause I'm gonna eat the time. Panagiotopoulos professor, we have very rich literature on the subject. What do I mean, Mr President? The debate on the retrospectiveness and unconstitutionality of retrospectiveness cannot tell how it has been. The law says "from now on", in front, there is no retrospectiveness. We are voting and applying it. Retrospective is if we went back to the past. And what does the law say? Anything that can be incompatible, from now on, is applicable. Tell me, if we were to invite the seventeen to vote, as we voted in 2019 last year, what year is there for the seventeen? For those who become seventeen or for those born in 2002? Of course, for those born in 2002, namely those who were seventeen that year in 2019, they voted. Is the law retrospective? No, of course, no one can seriously claim that it should be for the young seventeen. Imagine going to a judge who will interpret the spirit of the law and say "anti-constitutional", why did we put a factor with twenty years of service and have to be from now on for the new eight years, as the law predicts, to take it twenty-eight? Is that the spirit of the law? The spirit of the law, ladies and gentlemen, is to have fresh air of renewal, creativity, a new landscape in the field of sport and building. That's the spirit of the law. And you can be sure that, like the decisions that have so far been made on similar occasions, this interpretation will be made. But anyone who has questions and feels hurt or has complaints to appeal to justice. Because, my dear colleague, Mr Loverdo, the unconstitutionality of the laws will not be determined by the federations and the ILO, which as you well know according to the basic principles of sport law, the ILO has no competence to speak about the federation's actions. The ILO has referred to the National Olympic Committees and the National Olympic Committees are organising the Olympic Games. That's it, that's it. The world federation is responsible for the functioning and international representation of national federations. It's two things completely different, not to confuse them, not to confuse them because we're wrong, and I'm afraid of ourselves many times. So we claim that this law is not only constitutional, not only does it have no problem, it is not only a problem, but I think it must be proud of the Members who vote for it, from any point of view they vote for it. They will create new data in Greek sport and not party, as you said, Mr. Loverdos. Because if you read the five, six, ten, who react, you will see that the reactions are horizontal. Reactions don't come from a party site. That is why I claim that the Minister and the Government have legislated on values and principles, not on serving friends or friends of parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Economou, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President. That is why they react from various sources. I will tell you not to expect any political benefits there. It's so confusing and so gray. These stories aren't political. The only necessity and appropriateness of this law are our athletes, the children who are trained and trained, who have been placed in a very clear way in the past few days, said their opinion that years they could not speak. Parents, athletes, coaches, sports society spoke. All the previous years - and today, I fear - the five, six factors are represented. That's not sports. Sports is the athlete, and that is why we are fighting for our children for our youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u18	The procedure will now be in line with the power of the Members of Parliament, starting with Mr Skourletis, who I hope will also welcome him in the new parliamentary duties. We will close with the spokesman of Mera25 and before the Minister takes the floor, I will give the floor to Mr Loverdos who considers that what Mr Economou said personally. The vote will take place and we will enter the bill. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President, for your good words and for giving me the floor. Minister, I do not think you are surprised at today's debate. Because the debate itself had taken place when you had brought this provision, you withdrew it first and trying to deceive the House in the end. So intent is not a fresh air. The spirit of the law is not a fresh air in sport. The intention is riding, the intention is a very well-known attempt, to control sport, to create a party state there too, to put every one controlled by the government. Such a conception does not only distinguish you in sport, we will talk about it later on, is a patented concept that has been in the right for years, which does not recognize any concept of self-interest, any concept of relative autonomy. The same thing goes on everywhere. But be careful, here you say why no one offended the constitutionality of the law. Generally and vaguely no one offends constitutionality on specific decisions. If there is no specific decision to implement the law, you are not generally insulting and vaguely insulting. So what was heard before Mr. Economou is worthless. And you now come in a vague and creative way to talk about the issue of terms of births, recognizing that the problem is not the birthplaces, when they are compatible with the constitution - and of course there are in too many countries, and we have good ones as well - but retroactiveness. Retrospectiveness, which, of course, has been the case since the law was passed, has a retrospective effect. So you're saying the law is now being passed, it's now published in the FEK, but those who had two terms of order so far are forbidden. What does that mean? Retrospectiveness means. Don't make fun of us. These Greeks, these little things we understand. So I think you'd better withdraw this amendment. I think you're not even convinced of your side. Mrs Bakoyannis asked you specific questions a few days ago. I don't know. You couldn't answer. Was it the awe of Mrs Bakoyannis' political presence? You were not convincing at all. So when you see that there are objections from the majority of administrations, unions, federations, from all over the political spectrum, why do you insist? Because obviously, one is the purpose. The riding of the space of sport. So I think, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be inappropriate to insist on something that is more than certain to create a disturbance. In any case, if you want to talk about a new spirit in the field of sport, explain it to us, to highlight the social dimension, which is lacking in your provisions, it is completely lacking, to highlight the special burden of amateur sport wherever it comes to second degree. We must finally understand that sport is not a privileged area of conflict, but mainly speculation for specific business interests. Sport must be for everyone, sport has a social dimension, it must serve a bill of this kind, and in any case we must not try to violate the Constitution and introduce provisions that turn us back and serve a narrow party state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Mr. Ioannis Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Is there a question of the unconstitutionality of these provisions? We said so last time, a few months ago when we had the same debate. Of course, there is a question of unconstitutionality with these provisions, and in particular there is a direct infringement of Article 12 on the right of association, according to which non-profit-making associations are also talking about them, and in this case, they are certainly obliged to respect the laws - which do so, moreover, are also granted licences from the first instance - but in no case can the law make the exercise of the right subject, in accordance with Article 12 by prior authorisation. That is what you are doing now both with the terms and with the retrospectiveness of the terms. Because that is where retrospectiveness is based, that the terms must be filled with the age limit. Sure. We have a problem with the age limit. It is a question of unions, it is a matter of federations with their own institutions, their own functions, their own statutes. To take all those measures to make any renewal. There is no reason for the state and the government to intervene in order to determine the conditions of operation, the composition and composition of the organs of a union, whether it is called a sports club or a trade union, because that is where you are going, this is the rehearsal of a gnerale for what comes next to another kind of union. There's no reason for the state. The renewal of sports clubs to growers, incentivising people, in order to engage in sport and, above all, in amateur sport. When you want to impose it on the top, it's not a renewal. It's an attempt to impose control and election cooking. That is what the government is doing now, both by this provision and by other provisions of the registers bill, for coaches, etc. It is an attempt to have a cooking effort ahead of the forthcoming federal elections. You're talking about the public interest. Where and how does the President of a federation impose the public interest to be seventy one rather than seventy or sixty-nine or seventy-two? Where and where, what public interest imposes this? And since you are so consistent with your principles, as Mr Economou said, why don't you put an age limit on the Members of Parliament, on the ministers? Unless you consider that the Member or the Minister of Government is less important than the President of a sports federation. You're hypocrites other than others! Villages where examples of beatings and lawyers are irrelevant because they exercise public authority, while here we are talking about sports clubs, non-profit unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u22	Is this a private case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u23	And they have nothing to do with it, Mr. Economou, and it was a bad comparison that you made. It was completely unhappily the comparisons you made with the judiciary and legal associations when they practice a public office, while here we are talking about private unions. Well, it's unconstitutional, the bill and all its provisions, which is why they have met the universal reaction, and that's why the government has to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Hetas has the floor on behalf of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think there is a reasonable person in this Chamber who does not realize that there is a case of unconstitutionalism. We are also obliged to follow the logic of the party line. And I'm explaining to always talk about logic. Is the right to self-government and the freedom to operate sports clubs, as defined in Article 12 of the Constitution mentioned by all previous colleagues? Yes or no? Yeah, she's hurt. Is their freedom or not to show freely their administrations, as well as the individual right to elect each candidate? He's hurting. What more do we need to say in a bill, which is purely photographic, to serve side? But I'll see you later on this during the day with all of us's positions, because whoever's eyes on. Before I continue we will not get tired of saying this, undeniable need - the Greek Solution emphasized it, said it in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, repeats it now - the existence of a constitutional court. We wouldn't be talking about all this today. We wouldn't be talking here today if there was a constitutional court, which would determine what is constitutional, what is unconstitutional, would control the governments what they were saying, what they were doing. But these, of course, only in Greece do we not have them. Now I would like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights has held that restrictions on the right of association must be interpreted closely and only convincingly and compellingly. If we try to find some persuasive and compelling reasons here, I think we won't find anyone. In this case, therefore, there are no specific circumstances justifying such excessive State interference. The control provided for in the Constitution, which you invoke, is limited only to matters of grant management. There is no significant or similar public interest in this case. I shall close, Mr President, with the retrospectiveness of the law. The retroactiveness of the law runs counter to the principles of legal certainty, as well as to the principle of protected trust without - I repeat - having specific circumstances of protection of the public interest justifying it. It is clear that we are in favour of unconstitutionalism and I think that the government or the Ministry or the Minister should save what he can save before the process begins, because you are sowing storms with what you are going to do and you will reap winds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. In the opinion of Mera25, Mr President, it is obviously unconstitutional to say that the two articles of the bill are not in our view to be laid down by law, but must be laid down by the statute of the federation in question. Articles 6 and 7 ultimately circumvent the self-interest and autonomy of sport. We must now remind the Minister that in November in the previous bill he reopened it and did not attempt it again, he deceived the Greek Parliament, i.e. cheating the committees. It is clear from the Minutes that, in the ears of everyone, all the representatives of the parties, the minority rapporteur and the special speakers have congratulated or said to the Minister: 'Finally, you have understood and withdrawn it'. He was present himself. He heard it from all the groups and did not get up, he did not have the freeness to say: 'No, you have made a mistake, it is a misunderstanding, I do not withdraw it, I continue to support it'. And that's how he finally passed. Also, my dear Mr Economou, I must tell you that those affected, whom you have invoked to appeal to the courts, as you know best from me, need an administrative act. That is why you have not done an administrative act so that those affected in the courts cannot appeal. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying what everyone knows, whatever they say, most people know. In this case, that is to say, the retrospective power of the administrative boards and the antiquities and, in view of the antiquities that come to all federations, this work has already begun from now on and beyond Christmas, and we will have antiquities, it is more likely that this is a completely photography than an anti-constitutional provision. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u28	Me too, Mr. Gregoryde. I'll give Mr. Loverdos the floor for two minutes to answer Mr. Economou. I shall then give the floor for two - three minutes to the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Bukkoro, and then to the Minister, and we shall finish the debate. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I would expect everything, but by a colleague with whom we have been elected together to walk on the substance of a view limited to a constitutional issue I did not expect it. I feel deeply affected. I'm not going to turn that back on him. I just want to tell my fellow Members what she did. He put in my mouth a question of objections is supposed to be unconstitutional on the issue of terms of terms of terms. I, ladies and gentlemen, talked about retrospectiveness. I didn't talk about the terms. He read you decisions on another matter. Second, did you hear me talk about age limits? Although I have an opinion, I didn't make a point of it. In my speech, I will do this when I speak politically. Now I'm talking legally. He read decisions on such a subject, that is, age issues. Did you hear in the Chamber this other time that because there is a need for an internal intra-government arrangement with this famous end-user state, which alone is not - does it finally have a legal provision, and that is also because it is an intra-government arrangement to ban the objection of constitutionality? He's mocking us, Mr. Comrade. You shouldn't have done that. And finally, it is clear, SYRIZA's spokesman also said so, but those who have obtained a degree in law are not offended by the laws with constitutional objections, the acts of administration are offended, and from there on you can be traced to the unconstitutionality of a law in the courts. Was there such a decision? Of course it didn't exist. But there will be, at the moment, Mr President, anti-constitutional federations in federations which will not monitor this anti-constitutional logic and the correct interpretation of the Constitution will prevail from justice. And until then - and I close with this - the Minister, who will take the floor after the position and the colleague of the New Democracy, should tell us how he comments on a letter of 14 September 2020 from the International Olympic Committee to him where he says in the last paragraph: 'We have finally made clear on several occasions that these restrictions, which are considered to be part of this law, should not apply retroactively'. If that, as I said in my prototype, apply it and the blockades begin, the humiliation of this House will not include the opposition that says 'no' to them. Clearing accounts can't be the subject of law, and that's what this is about, accounts are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Economou, sit down, I've seen you. I run, I'll give you the floor when the time comes. I would remind you that it is Thursday, and because I'm providing for many colleagues to be registered, I propose that we maintain forces, unless you want the roll-call vote to take place, which will certainly take place at 23: 00. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I am deeply impressed by the fact that there is a debate on unconstitutionalism and that there has been no mention of what the Scientific Committee of Parliament said when this provision was adopted, that is, ten months ago, and the fact that it is not currently in place, which shows that this provision has been voted on for ten months. We come to the argument of the opposition parties that an administrative act has not arisen which will provoke an appeal and demonstrate the unconstitutionality of this provision. Can this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, prejudge decisions of justice? Where do these assurances arise that things will be done in the way you describe today by the opposition? Now we're going to the party and all the rest that's been heard. Why is it partitioning the single ballot brought by the new law and it is not partitioning the different ballots? Why can everyone with a patronage policy today have clubs, seals and affect the results of the elections, both locally and in federations, and, if you like, is not the removal of partyism, or the cleansing of a register of sports clubs that meet certain conditions and standards? In conclusion, Mr President, in the area of long-term sport, I would also be extremely surprised if it did not bring in tensions with a bill, because that would mean that nothing would change at all. And this bill attempts to put a class in the field of sport. The sovereign state has the right to legislate. Because sport is a social asset and, above all, because it finances with the money of Greek taxpayers this social phenomenon, which is called sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Economou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u34	I won't need two minutes. I had no wish to mislead the House. My dear colleague appreciates him, I've said it. Together we were elected, in the same year, and all the years have enjoyed my appreciation. I have tried to contradict the reason for unconstitutionalism and for retrospectiveness. I mentioned examples. The law is clear, it has effect from now on, and all other arguments are complementary. My dear, Mr Loverdo, what I am saying is that if the federations were to take eleven months, they would provoke actions which could try constitutionality or not. These debates that took place in the tenth year are again recurring after ten months in the Chamber. Minister, I fear that if you relegate legislation after a year we will talk again about a constitutional objection. In other words, this thing will become a little less serious in this Chamber. Things are going through with the courts, I know. And there are many judgments by the courts at all levels and all matters have been decided. Let us also look at the new decisions that will be made by the courts when the offenders resort. However, for the first time I hear that sport is a private matter and is not covered by paragraph 16, which I have heard from previous speakers. And Mr. Loverdos avoided saying that, because he's an experienced and authoritarian. Paragraph 16(9) sets out the debate today. It is the supervision, control and financing of the state. It is a public matter of sport and I hear new theories that sport is a private matter and I hear them on the left. That's unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u35	On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Aggenakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I will be extremely brief. First of all, let me say I know Mr. Loverdo very well. We have been many years of colleagues and the truth that whenever he took the floor on unconstitutional issues he confessed to speak and filled the Chamber. Today, however, it did not succeed. You have not achieved it, dear colleague and good friend, because you have no arguments. I'm very sorry, but we're having a no-cost conversation. This is an existing law. It's over and out. So clear. Simple as that. Secondly, you are talking about deceiving this House and humiliating this House. Heavy words, which I understand you are saying, because you really want to dress as long as you can this initiative that you have taken today, which does not stand. However, let me give you some information which will be useful to all colleagues. As to why this provision appears in this draft law, Mr Loverdos, the legislation on the limitation of terms and age limits in federations is in Article 8 - please look into it - Law 4639/2019. We voted for him in November, ladies and gentlemen. Why does he show up again and make all this fuss? There is no feasibility. We're not bringing the same article again. We don't bring anything back. The limits on ages and births have been a law of the state since last November. However, it appears, because we are applying the Legislative Manual of the General Secretariat of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs of the Government, which was recently adopted in 2020. This manual indissociates the provisions of Law 4622/2019 ‘final state’ with the principle of good legislation. On the basis of this manual, therefore, when there is an amendment of an article already adopted in our draft legislation, it is not our choice - that the entire article should be recorded, as it is to be, and not just the forthcoming changes. My dear colleague - and I am surprised that you have said some serious things before - in Article 6 of our bill, which amends Article 22 of Law 2725/1999, sets out the entire article and incorporates the changes that are to be made next to the provisions already in force. In this context, there was also a change in the wording of disabled people in the politically correct 'persons with disabilities'. Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of unconstitutionalism, I should like to remind you that this issue was discussed very extensively in this Chamber last November. I will not go into the debate. It's relatively fresh in the memory of most people, but very simply there are Minutes. I will, however, turn to the report of the House of Parliament in November. Have you read it? I guess not. You don't even have it in front of you. Please find out what the report of the Scientific Agency was saying at the time. The Scientific Service of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, in the report on the draft law on the ratification of the Macolin Convention, page 16, in November, said: "The delegation by the State of the promotion and management of the various sports in the organizations concerned - federations are in line with the public control exercised under Article 16(9) of the Constitution of associations of sports clubs, as defined by the Law. 2725/1999. In fact, in the context of this state control State intervention may be justified in relation to the organisation and functioning of the federations concerned, which otherwise could be considered to be contrary to Article 12 of the Constitution, which ensures freedom of consent. In order to serve the purpose of Article 16(9), such interventions, as well as the proposed restrictions on freedom of association, which concern the establishment of an age limit to cover the position of the President and Executive Board of a sports federation and which are also active in the publication of the law, must aim to promote and develop sport, be justified on grounds of general interest and to respect the principle of proportionality.’ This view, ladies and gentlemen, was based, not on a vague basis, but on bibliographic references of different constitutionalists, including Professor Chryssogonos, SYRIZA MEP until a precedent. Also, Mr Vlachopoulou, Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Xero and many others. They are referred to in the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u37	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Loverdo, please get very informed. From the above, it is understood that the Scientific Service of the Parliament has accepted that this regulation in November serves to promote and develop sport, thus serving the public interest without violating the principle of proportionality. If this debate on constitutionality is opened, Article 100(5) of the Constitution expressly states, Mr.Mr., that the constitutional crisis is the responsibility of the relevant plenary session of each highest court, S.A., Aryce, Court of Auditors. In any case, under Article 26 of the Constitution, it is the Greek courts and not the Parliament, which we have all become constitutionalists, as we have all seen just now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u39	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u40	Whoever thinks, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u41	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Loverdo, don't shout and listen, as we have heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u43	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I would ask you to impose order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u45	Minister, I think this should be corrected a little. The House, of course, has the right to discuss an objection of unconstitutionality...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u46	Clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u47	...and rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u48	Clearly. That is another thing to assume as a presumption that it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u49	Okay. Corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u50	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u51	Whoever thinks, Mr Loverdo, why I come prepared, I do not come in handy, with notes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u52	All right, go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u53	We haven't been here since yesterday. We've known each other for a long time. I know you. When you think of something...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u54	Talk about unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u55	Today, unfortunately, you have no evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u56	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u57	And I'm going on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u58	...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Loverdo, what you say is not written in the Minutes. You know that. Please, Minister, complete without mentioning Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u60	Since he did...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u61	There's no need for a nominal report. On the substance, not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u62	Excuse me, Mr. Loverdos has lodged the objection of unconstitutionality. Who should I refer to? To any other colleague. Mr. Loverdos on behalf of the Change Movement did so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u63	You're welcome, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. In all cases provided for in Article 26 of the Constitution, the Greek courts are competent to decide on this matter and not the Parliament. Anyone who considers it to be affected by this regulation can bring forward - he has every right to appeal - and, of course, the courts will decide. However, ten months after the law was passed, there has been no recourse to justice, as Mr Economou quite rightly said. Tons of ink have been spilled, ladies and gentlemen, in the legal theory that any system of control of the constitutionality of the laws must be applied in Greece, which provides more complete protection, etc. And if there is a presumption of constitutionality, that is, a law once passed by the House, it is constitutional until a court decides otherwise. This, however, is the subject of an investigation into legal science and lies in the scope of a court ruling and not in the debate on the bill. It is important that this should not be the subject of paradoxical debate, in which I think we should not go in at all. Here we have issues relating to sport. And don't hide behind our finger, Mr. Loverdos, you know very well, too, because you are involved in sport, the paths of space, which many of your former colleagues and former SYRIZA colleagues have tried to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u65	That's all in your speech. They have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u66	...but they didn't make it. I am therefore confined to these issues of unconstitutionality. I'll just say one last. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have in my hands - as you of course can receive it - the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on the current bill that we are talking about and which we are discussing and which, of course, we will vote shortly afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to say about this particular article, which you have managed to imagine and a little while to object to unconstitutionality. It does not mention anything! On the other hand, the November report mentioned what I said to you. Please review your position and, above all, the information you have not taken into consideration and I regret that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, it's completed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Loverdo, the conversation is over. In your speech. The debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality has therefore been concluded. Please accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] Please rejecting the objection of unconstitutionalism. [[Dismissing opposition to unconstitutionality]] Apparently, most of them were raised. The objection of anti-constitutionality is therefore rejected. We are now entering the debate of the bill. I would remind you that the records are free. As soon as Mr. Bartzokas goes up to Stepma, he'll open the registration system and as soon as Mr. Moraite comes down, he'll close. Those of you who are not on the list of sixty Members given by all the parties, once you are registered, would ask you to leave Ethiopia to keep the sixty Members' health protocol. I would ask Mr Bartzokas to come in and open the registration list, with the request I said to you: Once you are registered, those who are not on the list sent by the parties, get out of the hall. Here, Mr Bartzokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has shown from the beginning the great importance it attaches to sport and the great value it gives to athletes and has spoken of the reform it wants to bring about in the field of sport. Therefore, consistently in its commitments, this reform is taking place - step by step, first by limiting the terms and age limits for the boards of sports federations by voting for No4639/2019 last November, as we have heard many times before, and now by renewing the administrations of sports organisations. Our aim is to exalt and renew Greek sport by giving him new breath and a new, more modern form. In modernising sport it will, of course, be the contribution of the outgoing administrations of sport, which we honour for their multiannual contribution and which we call on them to translate their valuable knowledge into the new generation. Having already analysed the new sports bill in depth, we can all realise that it is a bill that dares to bring about the changes that Greek sport needs for many decades, correcting the passions or failures that all of us, athletes and not, we have seen in the way of running, taking decisions of the management of sports associations, clubs and federations, which were time to overturn. So I cannot think that one of us here may or is justified in having a substantial objection to the content of the arrangements. Clearly some improvements can be made in the future, such as the equal presence of women in the lists and administrations of bodies. However, perhaps some small improvements have to be made, we must admit that this is a bill which only has a positive impact on society. As we have seen in the committee, the six parts of the bill that we are called upon to vote on, contain innovative regulations, regulations that serve the three-fold 'transparency, democracy in decision-making and renewal'. And I'm getting more specific: The first part of the bill sets out the new framework for the antiquities of sports operators and the definition of obstacles and restrictions on the participation of persons in their administration. The provisions on the procedure by which their general meetings are held are also amended and supplemented. In this part of the bill comes to ensure that proper procedures are followed in the antiquities of sports clubs, associations and federations. How this will be done: First, with participation in them by legitimate sports organisations who are active in sport and are registered in the Register of the General Secretariat of Sports. Secondly, by further clarifying the obstacles to the right to vote and to stand as a lawyer in the committees responsible for the decision-making of associations, the express ban on the participation in the general meetings of bodies, the provision to be headed by a lawyer as a legal representative in the committees responsible for ensuring that the procedures of antiquities are in place, and much more that is not appropriate at the moment to mention. The importance of transparency in the procedures for the promotion of administrations is high, as, in addition to satisfying the feeling of law, it will make it possible to renew the persons involved and also contribute to the introduction of innovative policies in the form of enhanced proportionality, as well as to the overall development of Greek sport. Apart from this basic objective of the first part of the bill, it is particularly important that the regulation that this includes for the long-term simplification of the issue of the acquisition of sport recognition of clubs should be made. This addresses the problem of losing the rewards of athletes distinguished by not participating in racing activities at the minimum required number of clubs with special athletic recognition. The second part of the draft law includes arrangements for sporting people in some form of disability. There are problems that have been solved for years in the field of Paralympic sport. The more specific proposed provisions accepted by the whole Olympic movement seek, on the one hand, to give a fairer representation to the eleven-member plenary session of the management of the Greek Paralympic Committee of the individual bodies, namely the National Sports Federation of Persons with Disabilities, the Federation of Greek Basketballists with Amaxy and the Paralympic and, on the other hand, to enable the development of the football sport of individuals with amputation or inherent anomaly of one of the two legs with the provision of a federation for this sport by decisions of three associations meeting the legitimate conditions, taking into account the reduced number of athletes with the comparative disability. I will now go to the third part of the new sports bill, where amendments to provisions on amateur and professional sport are introduced. The status of coaches is being modernised in areas such as keeping a record of coaches, the possibility for active athletes to practice both coaching and the notion of trainer in archery and shooting. Compliance with the Secretariat-General for Sports and Sports will help to enhance transparency and to reorganise a professional sector that is one of the most sensitive to sport. At the same time, there is no doubt that the provision of coaching services by active athletes can only have a positive impact since it will attract even more citizens to deal with their sports. At the same time, the practice of the instructor is expected to strengthen amateur unions, especially in remote urban areas, which are unable for economic reasons to recruit a coach. However, this part is also covered by the legislative gap in granting the benefits for exceptionally discriminatory discrimination and to athletes - accompanies who are struggling in the struggles of people with disabilities. Accompanying athletes should have the same rights as disabled athletes who guide, accompany or assist. This arrangement is expected to provide an incentive for greater participation in competitions of both disabled and accompanying athletes. The third part also updates the doping framework to athletes and regulates issues about the license of sports and cavalry facilities. At the same time, the non-discrimination barriers noted by a student athlete shall be abolished in order to be introduced into the TEFA or another school or AEI if this distinction is achieved in the school year in which it translates. The fourth part establishes the national platform Macolin Convention as provided for in Article 13 of the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against manipulation of sports games. Its tasks will include, among other things, collecting information against manipulation of sports matches, transmitting them to the competent authorities and organisations, coordinating actions against manipulation of sports games, including education and awareness-raising programs, receiving and analysing information about irregular or suspicious betting in sports matches held on Greek territory and others. This provision was found necessary because, unfortunately, Greek sport has been faced for years with phenomena of manipulation of the games for the sake of getting rid of various athletes, coaches, members of administration, groups, betting companies, economic benefits. The aim is therefore to maintain good governance conditions in sport. Then, in the fifth part, the necessary legislative ratification of the amendment of the Statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, as decided in its plenary session, comes into force. Finally, the sixth part deals with issues that concern the wider area of sport, such as the safeguarding of labour rights, the workers of the legal person governed by public law at the national Youth Centre of Agios Kosmas, whose facilities will be demolished to implement the Greek renewal and reconstruction programme and the regulation of authorisation for the placement in municipal and open public areas for the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is clear that we must all support this effort of the government. The difference between the New Democracy Government and the previous ones is that it is not only limited to good intentions, it does not just want to change things, but it does. And she does it with the vast majority of the sports world on her side. The great support we have from the athletes themselves, from those who primarily concern the bill in question, is the greatest confirmation for us that we are moving in the right direction. But also for those who object to this bill, the government, and in particular the Ministry, have a sound ears, and this has proved to be perceptive, including in the final text of the bill many of the proposals made by the bodies in the Committee on Educational Affairs, such as the one concerning the period of six months from the publication of the law on the receipt of special sporting recognition by clubs, in order to recognise the distinction between the athlete that was achieved before the law was published and to be able to be included in the special list of the General Secretariat of Sports. But also the one according to which the possibility of unexamination being extended on the basis of the results obtained or of the athletes in the previous year and the next from the current year is being extended. The investigation includes the 1st to 8th world position and the 1st to 6th European Sports Position and the competitions for which the 2020 events were not conducted due to the pandemic. This regulation was fair and necessary to alleviate the consequences of the possible loss of discrimination for athletes in national teams due to this year's cancellation of world and European championships. Finally, in response to the bodies' proposals, the Ministry also added the segments of fencing and sports fishing to the exceptions with which athletes over thirty-five years can be registered as members in clubs and participate in associations and federations. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of all of us must be common and is no more than the evolution of Greek sport. This objective will only be achieved under conditions of transparency, sound competition and democratic aptitude procedures. These very conditions are coming to ensure that this bill is drafted. That is why I believe that there is no or, at least, no opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u71	We shall now proceed with the rapporteur-general from the SYRIZA, Mr Athanasio Moraitis, as soon as the Step is ready. If I understood it correctly - it is only my colleague from the Change Movement who is missing - that you table a roll-call vote, that the service should take place at noon in time for the bodies to prepare. Thank you very much. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened since the day this bill entered the House, you will allow me to say that it has no precedent in the field of the sports community. There is no precedent in terms of authoritarianity, feasibility, violation of every principle of good lawmaking. We have seen it some time ago in the debate on unconstitutionalism. The political battle we have to fight, Minister, in this bill, will allow me to say that it goes beyond sporting data. It is a supreme political responsibility, it goes beyond today, you, us, as much as those in this Chamber. Of course, we have a responsibility today to legislate on the emergence of one of the greatest ideals that our country has brought to global civilisation. But the big changes that we should bring concern the whole social pyramid. It's not a matter of a few, it's not a matter of virtues, - understand it - it's not a case of arrangements. It should be a top strategic map of reform and hope. But it is also a political battle, beyond sporting data, because the provisions of this bill are being circumvented by principles and values that run political correctness, but also by institutional balance, democracy, autonomy, transparency and social cohesion. With the provisions that you are bringing in and say so from the first meeting of the committee, you are not promoting democratisation. On the contrary, you are doing a power demonstration on sports grounds. You are doing so in such a way that it has never existed since the Transmigration to date. Your aim is to hide the real goal that, as it turns out, is not to install your own people, the good of you, the Prime Minister and the entire government system in the field of sport and its pyramid. Minister, I told you yesterday to respect the committee, and I hope that today you will, the history of athletes and Olympics in particular, keep them away from the games that you may want to play as a government. The Olympians belong to the people, they belong to the country, they belong to the Olympic Movement, and they do what Olympians impose, that is, the three-fold peace - love - solidarity. With your communication tactics, all you've done especially in the last few days and with the dimension that has taken the matter is the division of the Olympic Movement as well. You have demonstrated from the debate that you are not listening to the Morphics Committee. And, as you have seen, not only as a SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, but also our rapporteurs and colleagues from the other parties have all the goodwill to contribute with proposals, with comments and what we have seen from you is defending and defending the bill, especially with these arguments in the explanatory statement. You have not given any response and you have not given an answer to the main arguments on this bill. And of course you haven't moved at all from your original position. Honestly, on such a big issue, which is indeed about the whole society, we would expect you to hear something from the proposals and approaches of the other parties. But I wonder, honestly, what it is that makes you move like this. On the one hand, you say that sport must not involve politics and, on the other, insist on provisions which are unreasonable and, above all, above all, are policies such as, from the first day, the exclusion of persons and the expulsion of elected persons. This is a deep political one, in fact it is a disgraceful, authoritarian, anti-democratic policy. You say that one cannot be a member of the board of directors of a union because one is referred to as a felony, and one may be a member of an OEM or OEM board if one is not sentenced irreversibly. And I ask you directly, I did it yesterday and I expect an answer to that. What is the point of service of whom, in the end, does this provision serve? I do not think it only concerns one factor that we have heard from him with what he is following, which recently bought a historic group in Macedonia. I invite you even now, however, to define the final sentence as the necessary sentence for the stumbling-up. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the bill we are discussing is not the Register of Registration of Sports Associations, and it is not the Special Sports Recognition. It is not some modifications, arrangements or services. The essence of this bill is at the heart of sport and its entire pyramid. And while the Minister leaves outside and the Hellenic Olympic Committee, he leaves football outside, of course, because these are issues that burn down, stepping on real pathogens, attacking clubs, associations, attacking the federations in order to win the top, which is what is the target? It's the Hellenic Olympic Committee. Your bill contains a set of provisions that fully demonstrate this objective. By suspending the statutes of bodies, you are introducing a series of measures which violate any concept of autonomy and democracy of the association, association and federation that move marginally within a constitutional framework. How else should someone interpret that you abolished a law passed by the SYRIZA government, which introduced democratic reforms, such as the mere analogue, which enabled everyone's freedom of expression, that pluralism would force regiment practices to stop there. In fact, how do you really think, I am asking you this question and I would like an answer, that these administrations remain so many years, as you blame them and have given them various designations? It was quite simply the majority system, Minister, which was exactly what it was serving. The first takes it all, even if the difference is one vote. That's exactly what you're doing now. You don't come to change that. Cross-crossing with a single two-thirds ballot, that is, in the ten seats of members of the board of directors, can put seven crosses and a separate cross to the president, lead to mathematics where? In a majority system. And, as you say, and clearly in your rapporteur's report, 'we are strong administrations'. So what you want is to kick out the old guys and bring your own people, why? Because you see the space of sport, unfortunately, as a feud that you should understand. Powerful administrations are trying to destroy them and you cannot, so you are forced to lend these old methods. I would remind you that in the SYRIZA bill there was also the gender quota that you abolished and of course restored it for the eyes of the world the way you do it. But there was, above all, the one set out in the Olympic Charter, that is to say, that the president should be first among equals. In other words, it should be elected by the members of the board of directors as it happens everywhere in the social institutions. Do you really think about what the arrangement you bring to unions will bring? Should the President be voted separately from the members of the Management Board? One will be able, ladies and gentlemen, with his money and against him, because that is the cruel reality of buying unions, to exclude any opponent who does not like them, and thus create the new fireplaces. I think that's exactly your goal, how you build the new fireplaces in the field of sport. Fireplaces and customers, of course, who will applaud you to serve them. If you really want to collide, as you say for days, with the bad past, if you really want to break the abscess of the senators, which you have been denounced for too long, as you call it, if you want to inspire new wind and enter new and young people into the sporting movement, you would not choose this electoral system. You'd choose the simple analogue. And to finish another key and main debate, who is with the old and who is with the new one, you will allow me to say that everyone in this Chamber and in this country is judged by what it legislates, what it defends and why it is fighting for. SYRIZA took the political cost because democracy is a place of principle and not just in sport. I told you yesterday, and I want to make that clear. We are neither against the terms of the mandate nor with the limits of age we have a problem. These were legislated long before you, Minister. Rethink, however, that you will be deprived of a basic right by any person, the right to vote and to stand as a candidate, when this is not the case anywhere today in the European and Greek legal order. In SYRIZA's bill, we didn't retroactively. So far, we have said one more term and proceed with the renewal of new administrations. Show new people, bring new blood. We never thought of cutting people who had a route, people of sport who with their good or bad had given much in the field of sport in this country. One more thing. We have acted with the agreement of most people and of course with respect for the view of federations and the view of the sports community. The retrospectiveness you are applying, you can be certain - we have heard the conversation before - that it is a story that will be judged in the courts and I am not sure you will escape it in something else, and in the limits of age. Let's see a little now, what you did when the Royality Act brought a series of these big changes and for me reforms in the field of sport. Do you remember if you had passed the Basilian law? Do you remember what New Democracy had voted for, when this law was tabled on the same subject that had no retrospectiveness, only had terms of birth and age limits? You told us then that this provision - you New Democracy Members and your party officially, Minister - is a divine intervention in the self-sufficient sport, that it is forbidden by the Olympic Charter. These are the words of your rapporteurs and Members. That the Olympic movement - you added - must be self-regulatory and you have even strongly called for this provision to be withdrawn. Of course, Mrs Bakoyannis reminded you of these in committee, because you obviously forget them and because you may have forgotten them, let me remind you - I remind you - that you voted 'in all of this'. It is, of course, a regular tactic for this government to see that bilingualism is a good thing in its whole political account, and I could mention many examples. And because, Minister, you're causing us with the registry and you're even asking us if we're opposed, I'm going to tell you that what you found in the Ministry is coming today and you're selling it to us as yours. I believe that the register does not belong to parties or to you, neither to anyone, nor to anyone who is legislated today, should be legislated for the sake of the sport community. But, at least, the Vassiliade law, the law of SYRIZA, was law - as was all this effort - that began through a very large consultation. We have heard all the competent, federations, unions and we have come up with something serious and responsible. What did you do? You're intervening so that the record can unfortunately turn it into the big brother. A tool, in other words, full and suffocating control of unions, associations and federations, with the sole aim and purpose - and I tell you from day one - to manipulate the elections and put pressure on them through funding. I would also like to focus on some other issues of the bill, a bill - a list of very peaceful provisions and services, and I will only do so because they aim at the forthcoming federal elections. The provisions for exemptions from certain categories of active coaches, distinguished athletes, Olympics, judges, referees, etc., which the bill allows them to become members of sports clubs and outgoing bodies - let us speak clearly - are only photographic and possible actual deficiencies of factors are referred to as a pretext in order to promote some good people on the occasion of the elections in administrations. Especially the issue with the judges of gymnastics, we put it to you since the first meeting of the committee, is a major issue of conflict of interest and occult interlocutory, which you are supposed to want to fight. The insurance policy should not be a judge in his club, and you know it very well, and we even now invite you to withdraw it. We have asked you, Minister, to withdraw Rule 11 for coaches, and we talked about it yesterday. You're saying yourself that you're preparing something new. So why should we go to something which is problematic, it is half, it has not been consulted, it has not been prepared by the sports community, and it has not been discussed in two months since today? You get away from the main, which is above all the unfinished for thirty years of professional rights, but we also need a better consultation to regulate this whole unregulated landscape. I'm coming to another matter. With regard to the regulation of the professional rights of graduates of CCIs, specialising in football, which are forced today to go to the schools of the CCI to pay expensive and not to be able to practice the profession in breach of Greek law. Of course, it is not an easy case, but we need to talk about it, we need to resolve it, and there can be no more of these people who have studied, specializing in being locked up. I could refer to other issues, Mr President, but I respect the time. I think that I will also put a few other issues in my dentext, but I would like to close by repeating the following: with your bill, Minister, you are adding another deadlock to a society that is boiling. I think and believe it, and I told you from day one, you have had the opportunity to give this bill on the basis of it and, if you like, at this juncture, the good example. Explain mutual understanding. Raise the flag of sport up. To become the sporting movement of a chariot in today's imperative social co-operation as ever. But you have, unfortunately, chosen to make it another instrument yours and run water into the mill, unfortunately, of the party division. It is short-sighted and dangerous, and I would like to close with this: Whatever you gain at present, you deprive it of the future of the sporting family, you deprive it of the future of our children, you deprive it of the future of the athletes, who every day give difficult battles and do it with values and principles of a diameter contrary to what sport expresses over time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Movement of Change. Please close the list of speakers. Mr. Constantopoulos, you will speak without the Minister's presence, you can understand why, but start. He informed me to apologize on his behalf to you. He's back in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a bill is currently being put to the vote by the House which, according to the Government, constitutes a reform of sport. However, a common finding is that this bill does not meet the needs of the sporting community, I would say. It is not inspired by a development vision. On the contrary, it contains many fragmentary arrangements, and not only fragmentary, but also more, which in fact create ambiguities and provisions that can be characterized as photographic, without a clear justification. Instead of seeking to reorganise and renew the sport, this objective is being undermined by changes in structures and by the emerging state intervention. An interventionism, I would say, which crushes the self-government and autonomy of operators and goes beyond transparency and open procedures, as well as the antiquities of sports organisations. I'm coming to the bill. Minister, I would like to stress that in the regulations on the administration of sports federations in Article 6, our Parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, has developed the unconstitutionality of this regulation, which is based essentially on the retroactiveness of the provision, which represents terms of reference which have already been completed before the entry into force of the law. I would therefore say that unconstitutionalism has nothing to do with the terms of office, as our parliamentary representative has said, but with the retroactiveness of them. I would remind you that a year ago, during the discussion of the sports bill, of Law 4603/2009, when that law came into force, the existing framework for the election of federations administrations came into force and there was an explicit provision providing for the retroactiveness of the arrangements. Then, let me remind you, we pointed out that retroactiveness is confronting the constitutional requirements and that there should not be one. We had stressed then that there should be no ageing racism in electoral procedures. At that time, the Legislative Decree to be discussed at Law 4603 with legislative improvement was withdrawn. But today this provision comes back to the bill and the federations are wondering about the application of this provision. Minister, even now we are waiting for a clear answer from you. You can take back retrospectiveness, so that we do not raise a question in the federations' electoral process, because you will count the terms that have already been held in previous elections and the federations will be brought to the attention of the courts at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore a need for clear and unambiguous interpretations of what will lead to the courts. I note here, in fact, that, after the ILO letter, which calls for respect for the autonomy of sporting organisations, the risk of sanctions being imposed in our country is visible. In addition, as regards the other provisions, changes shall be made to the restrictions on registration and participation in the administration of sports clubs. Coachs, referees, athletes are involved with the administration, and as a result this confusion of the different qualities of the same persons creates the risk of being identified by controlling and controlled and of course not having the distinct roles. Reiterate, Minister, the coma for participation in the administration of motor sports clubs for those active in the field of the marketing of mechanical parts and spare parts. I would remind you that the sporting trade coma was abolished by an amendment that you brought two months ago. We had already pointed out to you the dangers of marketing the sport at that time. You didn't hear us and find them in front of you now. Furthermore, you are changing the process of antiquities to unions, sports associations and federations, clearly intervening, I would say, in the self-employed and in their autonomy. Your prediction of the possibility for the statutes to provide for details of conventions and antiquities is made, I would say, incomprehensible. With regard to the electoral system, you are introducing the enhanced proportionality and the single vote. At the crossroads already by your committee, we proposed that the number of crosses should be calculated at 2/3 of the total number of members of the board of directors, because the board of directors is composed of elected and non-members. However, they do not have the right to vote. That is why we said to be estimated at 2/3 of the total number of members of the Management Board. Why? Because then we will have a more proportionate result, given that the voting rights have both the elected members and the appointed members, as I have said. Also, Minister, Mr Secretary-General, the issue of the gender quota needs to be clarified, because it will raise issues concerning the election of the institutions. Furthermore, it is foreseen that a candidate president who raises 25% of the votes takes the position of the last councillor. We have already pointed out that there is a risk that anti-democratic results will be obtained, since this consultant may have raised more than 50% of these votes. You said to the committee, Minister, that the purpose of the provision is to reward candidates who had a significant percentage of the one-stop-stop-stage regime. However, the result is still unfair to the consultants and you should see it again. As regards the representation of associations in the antiquities of associations and federations, it is firstly laid down that the association is represented by a member of the board of directors. Here we have proposed that, in order to facilitate associations and especially those in the region, you should introduce the possibility of a letter of vote at the general meetings with the guarantees necessary for the inconsistency. Therefore, transparency is ensured and the participation of all associations is facilitated. Act, then, the epistle vote imposed and due to the coronary. Furthermore, you are creating a strict framework for the participation of unions in the elections, with a visible risk of controlling the electorate and excluding unions. The first condition you have is that the club has a special athletic recognition and is registered in the electronic register. I would like to point out the following: the register of sports bodies is useful and no one disagrees with its operation in order to eliminate the phenomenon of clubs - a seal, which we have essentially all denounced, and to record the active unions. That's how you'll get a class into space. However, the register cannot depend on the participation of a club in the elections. This is because the register must be open and not work so that the electorate can be controlled by those who have internal information. Even practically speaking, the register is today a timeless bureaucratic process. I doubt, therefore, whether the unions will be able to register and whether they will be able to participate in the forthcoming elections. In conclusion, it should be stressed here that the exclusion from the elections, Minister, is unacceptable. Furthermore, the second condition for participation of a club in antiquities is that it has a sporting activity in the last two years and indeed with a certain number of athletes. We stressed, Minister, in the debate in committee and in principle and on the articles, and I would like to ask: in the forthcoming elections to take place by 15 February 2021 what years will be taken into account? Because by transferring the elections in 2021 you add another sports year. As far as the reduction of athletes is concerned, there has already been a lot of talk in the committee. You say that this is how you support the small associations in the region and that it is their own request. I really hope that this is the case, but you do not have the support of the regional associations, reducing the members of their athletes. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the use of sports facilities it is laid down that only sports clubs with special athletic recognition and registered in the register will be able to use public sports facilities. Minister, as we have said before, you are linking the register to the union activity, so that they are in danger of losing and not having room for athletes to train because of delays in bureaucracy. At the same time, you are giving two years to clubs to receive special athletic recognition and until then they do not participate in the Greek struggles. I ask, Minister, and it must be made clear: A club that does not yet have sporting recognition, which does not participate in full-fledged matches, which does not use public sports facilities, how will it develop an activity in order to be able to obtain specific sporting recognition? It's a question of everyone and answer so far we haven't gotten. Finally, before I go to the other articles of the bill, I should like to note that in Article 6 the participation without the right of the representatives of arbitrators, coaches and football players in the board of directors is right to extend to the boards of sports clubs in the country, with the participation of local associations of coaches, referees and football players. It is their proposal, which is in the positive direction and I think you should accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer to Articles 8 and 9 to sport for people with disabilities. The composition of the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Paralympic Committee is changed here. Reduce members from the National Sports Federation of Persons with Disabilities and increase members of the Paralympic, in active or non-active. Here, Minister, it must be defined and made clear that our position is respect for the distinct roles. Management cannot be the same as active athletes, and this must be avoided, as there is a risk that controls will also be controlled. There is also provision for a coma, Minister, in the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee for the members of the management of sports federation of disabled persons. Here we would like you to tell us and to clarify the justification for these arrangements, and also because this embroidery is specifically provided for by the Paralympic Committee. In order to avoid double standards, that is to say, two measures and two weights. In Article 10 we have already proposed adding to the exceptions and e-government officials for a specific period, such as computerisation. It's something to help the feds. Do the thing. I would also like to refer to the question of coaches. Minister, because the question of coaches burns many and concerns - I would say - more, the state must guarantee the professional rights of coaches and, in particular, the graduates and graduates of TECA. They are young scientists with university studies, who cannot be confused with diploma holders after seminars and schools a few months without any regulatory framework. And especially in football, you know very well that they lack the ability to work in their specialty, that is, as football coaches, if they do not carry out some seminars, which I would even say high tuition fees. So we're talking about leveling university studies by sending them to do seminars to get the coach's license. The conclusions of yours. So what will the Ministry do here to solve this problem? After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is the duty of all of us to find a solution and not to leave the problem to the perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the prerogatives of athletes for access to higher education are concerned, it is, Minister, a positive regulation. However, it is an unfair provision to reduce the privileges of athletes for discrimination in Greek school races. It also restores injustice for those who achieved an excellent performance, but their unions, I would say here, had no athletic recognition. With the legal improvements you have brought you with the privileges, since the clubs receive the special athletic recognition within six months and not until the law is published, as the provision originally stated. It's positive. We suggested it to you, too. You accepted it. We have proposed this from the outset for reasons of equality and equality for athletes. We would point out, however, that there should be provision, Minister, for extending space for as long as a athlete can use this privilege. Finally, I should like to stress that, for the Greek championships which have not been implemented because of the pandemic, provision must be made to ensure that the attestations on the discrimination of athletes can be used after their completion and until the date of their use. Finally, the regulations on sports facilities are also positive, as are the regulations on the working future of workers at the sports centre of Agios Kosmas that is abolished. Also, positive arrangements are those concerning expenditure on doping controls for the National Antidopting Agency, as sports organisations are lightened up. It is also a positive arrangement for the OEMs affected by the pandemic to receive funds from shareholders in administration up to 100% of their capital. On the basis of its rules of procedure, a question arises here. Can the ESRB respond to this and with what assurances? Finally, the creation of the national platform for sport integrity is an obligation of the country under the Macolin Convention, while the statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee ratified by Article 22 has already been approved by Parliament and we agree. Ladies and gentlemen, sport is a field of cooperation that we could look for compositions and consensus. This, however, does not prejudge and becomes unsuccessful with this bill. That is why we are voting against the bill in principle as a sterile opposition framework, but also because we have major disagreements. In conclusion, Minister, on Amendment No 465 on the programme of the hundreds of thousands of subsidised jobs, ladies and gentlemen, in the present conditions of employment uncertainty and in the middle of the pandemic, we need a brave programme of support for work, a programme of at least one year lasting at least, of course, double the number of jobs, a programme linked to tax exemptions and tax incentives, and supporting businesses, but which will also include commitments to businesses to maintain workers in addition to the programme. I would also say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the programme should include provision for all the long-term unemployed and for vulnerable groups, of course, which does not include them. We therefore call on you to take these proposals into account, in order to improve the framework of the provision. After all, we are calling for a longer duration of the programme and that is clear. As regards the abolition of the ENPIA to the remote islands, it is understood that any measure to alleviate the inhabitants of the small islands of our country is welcome and we welcome it positively. However, this must also be combined with additional measures for the effective support of islanders. I would remind you that the PASOK - Change Movement in the rationale of the fruitful, constructive and programmed opposition had already proposed that in 2017 a reduced VAT rate be restored to the islands, as well as a cross-party committee should be set up to study permanent, serious support measures and this to all the islands of the country. In conclusion, we are positive about Amendment No 465. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u76	Here, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u77	I did not catch up with my colleague because forty-seven seconds after he started, I came from the Conference of Presidents. I was just sent by FIFA's letter - I would have given it to him to testify to Mr. Written by the Greek Football Federation, where he says what I said in my speech, in conclusion: Good luck. As someone sets up, that's how they'll sleep. As he sows, that's how he reaps. What have you got, Yannis, what have I always had? Same old-fashioned as my old-fashioned old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u78	To testify for the Minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u79	I would like to present it, please, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It concludes with the phrase, Mr President, that if there is indeed the law that exists, we may be expelled from all FIFA and UEFA organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u80	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Syntakis, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with the ministerial amendment tabled and include two articles. This amendment is tabled in the midst of a storm of anti-grassroots measures, as the Prime Minister has announced, by the Minister of Economy and other ministers, setting at the forefront even trade union action. He's actually trying to gold the pill with this amendment. The first article of the amendment relates to the creation, as it says, of 100 000 jobs, which are, in fact, incentives for business groups, on the pretext, of bringing unemployment back. The second relates to the exemption of HPAI and in 2020 to the outermost islands with a population of less than a thousand two hundred inhabitants. In relation to the first article, companies are subsidised with a sum of EUR 345 million, effectively exempting entrepreneurs from wage and non-wage costs. Insurance contributions will be subsidised for 100 000 full-time recruitment by the State for six months. You see, money is available for the employer, while at the same time workers are the victims of such an anti-popular policy with degrading unemployment benefits. And these for a very small proportion of the unemployed, while a very large part of these workers remain completely unprotected. On a payroll of what? The unemployment benefit is equal to the unemployment benefit. Once again, then, the government comes to unleash businessmen with warm, free money from the Greek people. It is a challenge when 95% of taxes are evacuated from the labour layers and just 5% from the business groups. It is a challenge with fast track procedures to be granted to business groups EUR seven billion, as announced, when one employee gets the 534 euros he is diagnosed, waiting for two and three months. The Government is causing the unemployed to tourism, food, trade, who have loaded up these consequences of pandemic and crisis. With this measure, the only ones who may feel confident and self-confidence from measures are a handful of business groups, loyal to the Pissaridis report, while the people will pay the new capitalist crisis with the new'storm' of anti-gender measures, the scanting of trade unions, social, democratic rights and the continuation of tax fraud. Therefore, we reject this article of the amendment. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The same amendment includes another provision in Article 2 which exempts remote islands for 2020. We, as the Communist Party of Greece, consider that both the inhabitants of the islands mentioned in the amendment and the other islands, but also throughout the country, claim the abolition of ENPIA, this unfair and anti-grass tax on the first and second residences that meets the housing needs of the people's family and is not leased. We also propose taxing the real estate of large businesses and the large real estate. This request supports the JRC and we have even tabled a number of amendments here in Parliament and in 2019 and 2020. Of course, as the amendment stands, we cannot enter into a debate, much more so that you have incorporated it into an amendment that gives great money. If it was a special article, we'd think about it, we'd go into a discussion process. So as it is, we cannot accept it. We have also tabled two JRC MEPs' amendments. The first relates to the payment of accrued remuneration of regular staff of sports federations and sports associations. It's unsolved. We call on the Minister to accept this amendment to the JRC Members and of course to the body. The second amendment concerns the participation of the Pan-Hellenic Association of College Football Coaches in the Management Board of the OSH. We believe that this is a just request which must also be supported. In relation to the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, this bill by name can be classified as sporting. This is a bill of sports campaign. Only the title “Reforming an institutional framework of the antiquities of sports organisations” states the raw intervention attempted by the Government of New Democracy for full control of sports clubs, associations and federations. Really, why do you want to reformate, change the antiquities? Why do you raise to a major issue the elections of the Presidents and their posts? Will youth access be developed by leaving, for example, the president of the tennis or the President of the SAGAR? Will the stadiums be filled? Will the unions open up for the world? Will the people's family be relieved that puts a deep hand in the pocket for the sport of their children? Will state funding grow? What will these electoral alchemys solve? It is clear with the bogeyman that this bill cultivates the territory without obstacles and without many risks for business activity in amateur sport, for abstraction and for full control of unions, members’ registers, academies, tickets, for whatever economics and any infrastructure they have and many other, just as is done in professional sport. This, in our view, is a full commercialisation of amateur sport, literally flying out of the first cell of sport the local sport club, all those who to date have been dealing with unspoiledly and with a flip-flop. Not that there are no problems. And in amateur sport there are also, because amateur sport has been poisoned and operates in many images and in harmony with commercial sport. To complete this erosion of amateur sport, you need to change the current structure in the club, in the union, in the federation. You're not served by this coup, the dispersal with the many unions in an area, in a neighborhood, in a municipality. It does not help you gather the pie, penetrate businessmen who are active or want to invest in sport. We are talking about a market that starts from school, has systematic day-to-day operation and activity and "touch" the whole family. That is why you are making it difficult to involve the ordinary people who are currently wasting money and time on the club. You block them with the bureaucracy of the register, instead of cultivating participation, or opening unions in any case. That is why you also want to get it over with those who, from their own point of view, today, each resists this policy. That's why you're setting limits on terms of terms and limitations. All legislative interventions so far, this New Democracy after SYRIZA, but also before the New Democracy and PASOK, have not been able to deal with them because they did not want to deal with them. They didn't want to cancel business action in sport. They have always avoided its connection to the structure of commercial sports that leads to the hunting of profits and is also the cause of the birth, but also the reproduction of such phenomena and the rot of the background. They have never been involved in the development of mass popular sport in school, the neighborhood, how each sport will develop, how the participation and access of the population, especially youth, will be strengthened. The government systematically hides in the cry of agony and in the proposals put forward by sporters for the next day. The unions are at risk of locking in conditions of unprecedented economic suffocation that makes their viability impossible. They cannot maintain any offices or basic functional needs. At the same time, you throw away the crumbs of 12 million euros, which are not enough to cover even the basic fixed expenses of clubs, with consequences for the athletes themselves, for the entire range of workers in sport. People lose jobs and income. They owe them a lot of money and they live in loan. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we challenge you. Go to a union in your neighborhood and ask the people who deal with the union. These people leave their personal lives, leave their families to engage in sport. Don't you know that? This is the world. On the occasion of the crisis in the coronary which further difficulties have been added to an already marginal situation, in many cases unions and athletes are asked to bear the burden of the application of the designated medical protocols as well as the acquisition of health equipment. There is no health aid that should be provided equal to and, where necessary by the state, to athletes, coaches and, in general, to all persons involved and involved in sport. We have tabled very specific proposals to you in the previous discussions in the committee. From one ear to the other, they came out. These are self-evident, realistic proposals that are "frozen" in the current difficult circumstances, such as for the brave increase of state funding, to cover, through state funding, the arbitration costs for 2020-2021, to "frozen", to become a "frozen", to regulate their debts for 2020, to provide the municipalities with grants from the State budget to undertake all operational land conservation costs that are owned and allocated to amateur clubs, to cover all medical expenses, issue, visa card for the presence of doctors in the struggles. Free coverage of costs for carrying out the COVID tests -19 to athletes, referees, other staff, coaches and ensure by central provision complete with free health material. And, of course, the payment of the paid remuneration and insurance contributions from staff, sports federations and associations and on the basis of the amendment we have tabled to you. Instead of dealing with all these flaming issues of vital importance, you have long been showing a special interest in the so-called register of sports players, as if this were more serious than the situation in the field of amateur sport, as we described it. And all of this, of course, is a pretext for recording sports clubs, terms of births, organs of sports bodies, highlighting age and many births on their assets. That's how you say you'll bring transparency to sport. The truth is, he wants a lot of nerve to move your finger to sports clubs, sports clubs, to players, to people who have given their lives to this case, while you, the governments, your policies, who have stirred up opacity and complexity. The purposes of the decision to create a registry, pretentiously ignorant of how many sports clubs exist in our country, do not concern the real needs of sport. On the contrary, they undermine them under the conditions and the suffocating bureaucratic framework that you have defined. The JRC has always been stable in favour of control and transparency. Could that be? Of course he could. The question is why it is not possible to do so even though the data and the mechanisms exist. What is lacking is the political will, because each government wants to have the upper hand and control. The real reasons you want this register are, firstly, the suffocating party, governmental control of sports federations, with an orderly exclusion of sports clubs from the upcoming elections, and given that many of the clubs have not been able to register or register because of these suffocating deadlines, which cannot objectively be observed. For example, is there any provision of how and where a union can resort to justice? Secondly, it is the direct and non-obstacles to sponsor companies, as the Deputy Minister himself has said, but in fact to invest business in amateur sport by choosing unions for their sponsorship programmes, of course, by taking advantage of the tolerance and low state funding of sports clubs. Thirdly, it is the further reduction of the state funding of associations, under the pretext of non-sport recognition. In fact, in the form of threats, the State Secretary himself stated that those sports clubs that have not completed the registration or pre-registration will not receive state funding. The protests are very strong, everyone knows, all this time, from the unions, from the federations, about the complexity of this registration system. We say this clearly as a JRC: the register exists and could, for example, be streamlined with good management. So leave the tricks. All federations are registered in the General Secretariat of Sports, all trade unions in the regions, since the register and its creation must be passed through the Directorates of Sports and Culture of the regions by granting such assurances. In other words, there is a complete file. So why is this entire prestige of the government, Mr. Aygeakis? Their responsibilities and as serious, of course, are also members of the General Secretariat of Sports, such as the manager of the Directorate-General for Sport, the executive of the Change Movement, who were the managers of the registry. The Change Movement should tell us something about his missionary. That is why we, as a JRC, have a clear position that bureaucratic procedures should be removed and none of the federations' electoral procedures excluded. No association with non-active activities and participation in sports events in the previous period. Do not use the sports register and clubs for the interests and pursuit of entrepreneurs and companies. There is no form of business activity in amateur sport. And we oppose the government's practice to make this register accessible to donors in order to choose unions for their sponsorship programs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time there is an attempt to disguise sporting factors, to cultivate a climate of tension and division in the sporting family to serve specific political, party purposes and economic interests. Today, with the legislative bogeyman, with the sports register, the government is attempting raw and violent intervention in autonomy and the internal functioning of unions and federations. But this is where the NGO, the sacred cow, two metres and two weights are excluded, that is to say, the law does not apply elsewhere. It attempts to prosecute people of sport who are lovingly and zealously serving Greek sport and to legalise the involvement of those who have been convicted of felony with final decisions, businessmen who trade sporting goods, those who own an INFO. It is clear that you want to ride sport and have full control of business interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u83	Yes, I will, Mr President. Because the amendments were also together, so please, if there is tolerance, for one more minute. In relation to terms of terms and age limits in management bodies, the JRC has always been in favour of the renewal of persons. However, we believe that administrative efficiency is not solved and that the effects of corruption are not being solved. Renewal does not impose it from above, growers, creates conditions for participation, finance clubs, build infrastructure, raise the forms of participation. Here whoever goes to work, goes for hair and comes out ragged. Transport, VAT, tax information. And you know, it is another thing here to harmonize a Greek federation with its respective international body - the SEGAS, for example, with the IAF or the EEC with FIPA, etc. - and that's what you're doing. In practice, as you bring it, you photograph people who can disagree with them, but I do not know whether they should also have this treatment. Let me ask you this: did the changes to members of the boards of directors and major shareholders in the PPAs, which are taking place every once in a while, prevent corruption? I ask you a second question: why don't you impose them? Giannis Giokas, our Member, told them at first in the debate on unconstitutionalism. Why are there no limits and terms of reference imposed on Members, on ministers? Why? I'll tell you something. The father of today's Prime Minister, do you know he became Prime Minister at his seventy-two? Today's Vice President, Mr. Pikrammenos, has exceeded your limit. So leave the tricks and leave these selective decisions. Apart from others, however, it is racist. And it's racist because it sets another age limit for the sports federations of disabled people and others. Of course, here it is clear that a further effort is being made on the part of the government in order to control the federation of disabled people and, in the final analysis of the changes made yesterday by the Minister. It's a lot, but I can't go on of course. Time has passed. If, of course, secondary education is allowed, I will say for other aspects, other provisions of the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. We will give the floor to the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Bubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say today, frankly, but the debate is taking place elsewhere on constitutionality. It is, however, an opportunity to see - you have left some lawyers, unfortunately most of them are gone - whether the laws are being circumvented and violated mainly against the weak. Mr. Economou said something about us journalists, but see how many tears the journalists have been thrown, because there are too many years that we have had to make a new union, as the ESA did not accept many colleagues for the age limit. And see this how much it has been sour the journalists' world that we had to do after some time to make EDPPIT, so that we could embrace colleagues who had not exceeded the age limit set by the Association of Journalists of Athens and Thessaloniki as a closed caste of people who want to control the whole situation. We have made other associations so as not to deprive some fellow journalists of membership. On the basis of all that has been said about constitutionality, I would like to ask this House a question: is that moral? I leave it to anyone who has appealed all these months as a follow-up to the autumn law. Is it moral to tell a man who's overtaken his 71s that he's not capable, put him in disuse, limit him or has not the brakes? For the period of terms, we should discuss this. After all, we as Greek Solution have said about the three parliamentary mandates to the MPs. Why, then, other measures and other weightings, as is the case? Why did you people with disabilities - and I said yesterday - put three years more for the President than seventy-one (71) to seventy-four (74)? Isn't that a photographic device? Let's go a little bit to union members. They must have the right to vote and stand for election. Don't limit them. They're active cells. They have reason and opinion. Since yesterday, I have told you, Minister, about the work of some Olympics. I didn't say you pushed them on TV I've known for years. But he could also play a video of the children's parents, who have no gyms to go, who have no facilities to go. In fact, the training centres are in a terrible state right now, apart from the fact that the Olympics are getting full, I will come back to this matter. So there could be another video to see how much the parent pays today sport. What did I say yesterday? With a survey at the University of Thessaloniki, children go to the gym and because of financial hardship, but mostly because they don't have company. And I've said sports in the club is company. We must not disturb this group. So it's moral to put an age limit on it? To discuss the issue of terms of terms that tends to become too many manifestations of society. In politics, self-government - the other major school - where are some restrictions on terms of terms? Why? As it suits us? Let's go to the coach register a little bit. There was, you didn't. I walked in yesterday and read the supporting documents needed to become a coach. I didn't see a judo coach. I've been put to it by the likes of Drama. Judo coaches won't be able to teach in the Tatami. That's what the mattress is called, because - he says - they have to be TECHET graduates. And I ask: all these judo athletes, as is the case in Europe - Austria, the Netherlands, Russia, France - do not need a TECA degree. What's gonna happen? So, can't a judo coach, with a nanny, that goes up to eight dan, be a coach? How's the athlete getting so many medals? Now what are you doing with him? You say 'TEFFA Bachelor'. I'm not saying it's an upgraded coach's degree. But just take a look at a sentence: In the coach register, coaches pay 140 euros paradox. Where's that money going? Why can't a solidarity fund be taken over by those coaches who lose their job with health problems? It's a special code. It is a proposal from the Solidarity Fund. The paradox is 147 euros. General meetings: that is, just a minute. Non-members of the boards of directors will only be able to participate in the general meetings.Huh? Non-members won't be able to take part? And if he's a multi-sport curator in a specific sport - why do you know unions have lots of sections -, won't he be there to tell his opinion? How do we rule them out? Let's go to the other big topic: you gave a time extension because of COVID, because of the coronary to some athletes for molecules, but there are historical unions, which do not have VAT. They're taking the kids, they're fighting, they're not mobilizing. Hercules, Panonius, what's gonna happen? And you know very well that they're unions with too many parts, such as swimming, water football, basketball, football, etc. What about these unions? It's a big deal. In retrospective power, to come back to this, you have had a dispute with your similarity, Mr Bakoyannis, in committee. I don't know, I'm not going to go into legal details, because I'm not a legal person, but we'll see here how the law is violated. "Byssini" master of the Thessaloniki camp, Kostas Piladakis, owns three casinos. Piraeus Bank gives him a post at the "Dakumento" 138m euros and makes a 20-year-old negotiation of debts to the insurance funds. Isn't that a football factor? It's a sport factor, isn't it? Don't you know who got rich? Don't you know who the big players of sport are? It is a question tabled by the Greek Solution, my likeness, Mrs Asmakopoulou, on the issue of Piladakis. Why this privileged treatment to some big players in sport? What are we afraid of? Why are we mocking them? But let's go because this keeps with the Greeks' houses. The Greek Solution and our President will not leave it so, we invite the Prime Minister himself, the Presidents and all the parties to take a stand on the rape of democracy. Next time, in a timely question the Minister of Justice admitted that at the schools of judges - in order to inform the Greek people - the judges in the new peacekeepers, the attendants, that is, representatives - not representatives, have a difference - of Themida, they are told "now when you go out to trial, you will support the banks". There's officially this, be careful on the judiciary site. Mr. Tsiaras admitted it to a timely question of the Greek Solution. And leave it like this, gentlemen? "Get out, says ludicrous to the borrowers. Nice democracy. 'The law and the law of the mighty;' i.e. the law of the mighty. But Plato said something else, and I said it next time: "You are probably angered or raped." When the people are raped, they get less angry than when you're wrong with them. And you won't take the parties for that? When the judges themselves say about the houses of the Greeks? Something that the Greek Solution has revealed to you and you make it politically arrogant, no one is talking about: You will support the banks, because it says, you will take out the subjects, that is, the borrowers, possibly a deceit, because they have taken the loan, that is, they have lost their job because of the memorandum. The fact that we give a Priori the benefits to all illegal poachers is another hat. I'll go there, too. See how the laws are being violated, so I don't hear about unconstitutionality. I am pleased that Mr Augerakis and Mr Moraitis have a relationship with the environment. Mr. Augias reads that he has studied an engineering topographer, has an environmentally related company and he has also done a postgraduate. Mr. Moraite was State Secretary for the Environment. We will present to you in the minutes a communication from the Northeast Aegean TEI, a Technical Chamber of Commerce of Greece and President Strato Manolelli. He says, do you know what's going on in Kara Tepe, which is a Turkish name, and I don't like Montenegrin, Lesvos? 'Come and see'. Infringement of Law 4014/2011, it is the environmental law. There's a cavalry thing going on, you know? If the ordinary citizen does this, it's over. We first have L.4375 how it characterises the space, the second law comes, where L.4485 says that land use can be changed and homes can be made on an area of 350 acres, with an active field of firing, in a building that is the National Information Service, which is in the limited definition of placement that the Chamber says. It cannot, however, violate the other environmental law, gentlemen, and you know it very well, Law 4014, which says that there must be an opinion from archaeology, from forestry service, from the relevant regional council and from the Special Consultative Committee. The Greek Solution will present you with the exhibition of the Northeast Aegean TEE that you want to make a hotspot for illegal poachers of three hundred and fifty acres and smuggle. Four hundred cubic concretes, four kilometers of fence, direct assignment of the work and contractor. We will also give you photographic material to see, because I visited as a Greek Solution at the request of Mr. Velopoulos Moria and I saw close together what is going on there, what violations are taking place. Are you talking about unconstitutionalism, gentlemen, when you break the cavalry, the national wealth at a strategic point? In other words, he left Moria, went three kilometers from Mytilini and is a point of strategic importance. Do I call them? It's called the T.E., violation of the law. But I also want to make another point, Mr. Lovers was here. When there are truths all parties should be placed. Is the rape of democracy at the judiciary told by judges to the hatched representatives of Themida: 'Support the banks and not the world'? We need to leave the House, we don't need to. We are not representatives of the people, we are representatives. Do you understand? Will the Prime Minister himself not take a stand on this when this is officially lips at the judiciary, and does Mr Tsiaras admit it, but does he say that we cannot intervene in judiciary power? Wherever you want to intervene, however, the government in question has been separating and above. We're nice! Rejoice in this democracy. We, as a Greek Solution, will see you so people know what's going on. I'm on my way to the Sports facility register. We agree, there must be a record. I was listening to Mr. Kotso saying about that record yesterday. Did we say there was no record, so we didn't know what happened to us? I beg your pardon, Mr Minister, all these sports projects under the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Sports, were not stagnant, had no construction plan, had no building coefficient, had no building permit? How did they come from heaven? Yesterday I told you about the Olympic projects and you told me to put a timely question. Yes, as a Greek Solution we will table a timely question. You put Mrs Angelopoulos on the great Committee "Greece 2021", you put her as a Papaflessa female, I don't know how you put her there and she still hasn't accounted for the Olympic works of 2004, which the Greek people have paid and then the caterpillars took us. Too many clubs have no facilities, not just Athens - Thessaloniki, there are currently in Patras, Heraklion, Volos pending court rulings. Did you mind if we do timely work on the Olympic projects to see what's going on? I now come to the Paralympic Committee. That's where you made some changes for the members as well, as the disabled club does, I know. Not everyone from EOMO, there's a full representation, welcome the members. For athletes, however, full rights will be granted. You know what I was talking about with the friend, Andreas Katsaros, from Thessaloniki, the global Paralympian swimmer, is that the partner is an integral part of the disabled person, it's part of his body, it's not just a partner, that is, it's not a partner. So they should have equal rights there. Now for the matter of missions, there must also be some cloak, because there has been a great deal of immunity for some mission expenses. But I want you to tell me what you do not like in the Paralympic Committee, what were the mistakes of the past, and we need to go to some changes there of the members? There's another issue, what do people with disabilities ask? They're asking for paralympians. Why? Because Paralympians are constantly working out, they can't stop gymnastics for survival purposes. Here is the big difference and they are not asking, they are not begging, they require, they do not request an exception for the President to make him there at the request of seventy one in seventy-four years. At first we cannot vote for it, it is photographic. You know today is the celebration of the Holy Witnesses of Wisdom, Faith and Hope. You must have wisdom. We do not see, we have not learned from the past, we cannot currently limit some individuals. Now these unions, seals, etc., don't we know? Where have you been to find them? We hear them like a fog there. You know, there's a lot we need to discuss about sport, but we can't smuggle some people who have offered, put this age limit and retrospectiveness, which has not even been done in total, as it is of interest to us. In conclusion, I would like to say something more, knowing that you're going to tell me that we need to discuss this in another bill, because that's not in the bill, but something you have to do with football this year. You have been given a number of documents by twenty-two groups and they say that: "We will throw a white towel". There is no group of Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis, Panceraikos going to play in Rethymnon, Chania, Heraklion does not go financially or to Sparta, Tripoli, Kalamata. See what you're going to do. Will you do two groups, as they ask, north and south? Or the teams will bury, close, download rolls. Ladies and gentlemen, because there has been a lot of talk of unconstitutionalism, as Greek Solution we expect you to take a position on the violations of the Environmental Law of Law 4014/11 in Kara Tepez.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u86	Today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u87	I don't know when you'll get, Minister. I'm putting in a question. It is democracy, it is the law that we all have to enjoy equality and equality, that cannot be discriminated against. Secondly, the Greek Solution will return to the world's knowledge of the truth about the first residence. Officially, judges' lips say: "Support banks and not the world." Inadmissible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u88	We will now give the floor to the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mrs Sakorafa Sophia. By the way, Mrs Sakorafa, we wish you many years for your nominal holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] I shall begin by following the encouragement of the honourable Minister. After the personal complications he has made to me during the procedure in committee, I should like to say to the House that I have neither had nor had an interest in sport, I am not interested in sport and I have no concern for his future in our country. Now I imagine I will be allowed to continue. However, if all this were really then I could perhaps vote for all the provisions of this bill without any hesitation, as the government suggests by Mr Aygeakis. But let us see what the real situation is, ladies and gentlemen. Sport with the long-term responsibility of all governments is going through a lasting multi-faceted crisis at least since the 2004 Olympic Games, a situation which has been burdened by the protracted economic crisis, but also by the country's submission to the Memorandum Policies. Sport ended up being treated as an unauthorized luxury in modern Greece. In order to overcome the crisis of sport, an overall reform of the institutional framework would really be necessary, a new sport law that meets the needs of the new dystopic situation. Unfortunately, it turns out that the moods and capabilities of the Greek political system do not go far enough. For many years sport has been operating on the automatic pilot by depleting its own self-contained dynamics, and the only thing that the state has to offer it is the sub-financing and the practice of deadlocked intervention policies, policies that are exhausted in fragmentary spasms, so condemn Greek sport to stagnation and underdevelopment. Such a characteristic sample is the bill we are discussing today. The legislation reads: ‘Reforming the institutional framework of the excellence of sporting organisations, etc.’. It is simply a stitch from fragmentary individual regulations on various issues. Sport as a social phenomenon, as a social activity, as we have all admitted in this Chamber, which needs support from the state, is nowhere in this bill. What exists primarily is the obvious attempt to intervene in the country's entire sports administrative system, the obvious anguish to create party control conditions in the sports structure, i.e...... The Minister won't stop us from saying that. After all, he knows very well that this is the truth. He simply considers part of his role of pretending to be affected by all the parties who simply find it. They shall again vote for a provision on age limits and terms of reference in the administration of federations. The universe is not meant to establish age limits by law to elected and unpaid members of sports bodies, that this is directly contrary to the international framework of sport, but also contrary to the country's own constitution. The same is true of the retrospective power attributed to the terms of the terms of the terms of the terms of reference. Measurement of the terms of the law before the law, to the limits which are first introduced with it, is retroactive, gentlemen of the government. Or do you think he's not? Oh, no. Isn't it? Don't play with words. It's a game that doesn't lead anywhere. On the legal issue, I will simply refer to the opinion of Mr Alvizatou, who has been tabled in Parliament during the debate on the previous law, and I hope that all colleagues will have read it. I am also presenting today in the Minutes and in the recent opinion from 12-9-2020, on the same topics that I referred to yesterday and which were issued after a question from the Confederacy. As far as legal matters are concerned, there is no point in me adding anything else. In substance, I believe that Mrs Bakoyannis' intervention in the committee has covered the matter fully and with very specific elements. Really, gentlemen of the government, is this a political concept for you? Then we will also expect your new institutional interventions for age limits and terms of reference to Members, ministers or the Prime Minister. Think about it. If such age limits were to apply, Constantine Karamanlis would not have been a Prime Minister until 1980. Neither Andreas Papandreou in his second term nor the father of today's Prime Minister, who, in the wake of today's ministerial logic until the last day of his political activity, was present in Parliament and participated actively in all his procedures. Chalkeneros, and not an ultra-engineer, saturated, inappropriate and exquisite, as Mr. Aygeakis wants us to believe. I will not go into so many other political figures, such as Mr Eliou, Mr Florakis, Mr Apostolos Kaklamanis and so many others. Did all these people block the country's progress because of their age and their long-term involvement with the public? As if I were already listening to the easy answer in your mind: "You compare things unparalleled. They were voted by the people." But that's exactly what this is about. If there were the limits of Mr Aygeakis, they would not have been able to be elected. They would be treated as useless or dangerous, even as an administrative place in a sports federation. After all, those who we are also discussing today are also elected by the base of sport in accordance with the coordinate procedures. I've said it before, and I'll say it again, because I feel like I have a moral obligation to do it. I started a little girl in Trikala. All my course in sport, and me and all our generation, we owe it to a large part in the administration of the late Misaelides, then president of the SAGA. And he owes a lot to the female sport, which he supported in every way. Unfortunately, he would not have met the criteria for age and birth. Fortunately, however, the ministers at the time did not have such enlightened inspiration. Gentlemen of co-existence, the short-term targets cannot be a basis for good legalisation or for sound legality. Neither the selective attitudes and the photographic arrangements you become partners, so as not to say conspiracy when you vote in favour of them. We do not reject the entire bill. It also contains provisions dealing with specific real issues, which we shall also be voting in favour of. But we are talking about the overall spirit of the legislature you are proposing. I should like to mention a few indicative points on time. I specifically asked the Minister if he can justify, both legally and essentially, why he insists on different age limits for people without or without disabilities. Because in the seventy-first year for the first and seventy-fourth for the SME. Obviously, I didn't get any answers. What greater proof that there is no supposedly political viewpoint or collective planning? All this is a pretext. The Ministry shall move on the basis of occasional choices and, where appropriate. And these options want to make them a law of the state, dragging Parliament into such legislation. However, even if Mr Aygeakis retreates even now with any equivalentity of the limits, the ministerial intention has already been put forward and recorded. And those who know say that this is also crucial for the outcome of the cases in the courts, if there are any appeals. I have asked the Minister for Arrangements on the VDU, which he promotes in a way that does not honor any of us. In particular, we had in consultation the provision that the provisions of its statute apply only to antiquities, even if they derogate from the present. After consultation, an exception is now added and it says that 'except for the period of the antiquities, in respect of which the law presupposes any other statutory arrangements'. Meanwhile, in the consultation, there was no comment related to election time in the OSH. It was carried out by the Minister on his own in the new provision that postponed the elections in the EAW. I have therefore asked for an institutional justification. Why did this have to be retrospectively added? What's the point? The explanatory statement tells us nothing. It simply copys the contents of the device. Here it is obvious that the devaluation of Parliament and the institutional procedures is to be challenging. It is unnecessary to say that the Minister did not answer that question. I have spoken about the provision in which he wishes to be members of associations of the same active sector of arbitrators, judges, time-shares or those who participate in an athletic athletic work. In some, in fact, sports even participate in the administration of clubs. This lifting of the incompatibility reverses any sporting logic and directly undermines the credibility of the sports games. It opens the way to morbid situations. Once again, there is no real answer! I have spoken about the distinction between specific sports, to which the state grants the right to establish and operate coach schools. Obviously, there is no objective justification for introducing these exceptions. For other sports, coach schools belong to the field of responsibility and responsibility of the General Secretariat of Sports. And this is a silence from the Minister. I asked the Minister why the comb of manufacturers and sports dealers is being removed from the management of a sports club. At the same time, however, this is specifically provided for motor sports, mechanical and electronic parts and any spare parts. And right. On the basis of what logic does not the same apply to other sports? I have asked to explain to us why there is legitimate participation by the professional and profit-driven person, of course, in the production and supply of sports and equipment, which in many sports is highly qualified. Still no answer. I will not go into the register at all. We've been through this in committee. I just want to say that an unjust bureaucratic process is being introduced, and the General Secretariat of Sports has all the relevant information. How can I call that? Incompetence or feasibility? I mentioned the above to put in your judgment, but also in the crisis of the world, which listens to us if all this can be regarded as good-faithed questions or bad-willing criticism. In these specific questions, and not only on them, but on other similar issues, we have only had the awkward silence of Mr Augarian. Uncomfortable, but also perfectly eloquent. It seems, however, that all of this has bothered him. That is why I am putting this in your judgment too, ladies and gentlemen. I am referring in particular to the Members of the government. They bothered him, too, so badly he tried to respond by direct personal attack on me. Personally, it doesn't bother me or it doesn't hurt me. He also attacked the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece. There is no need for an attorney in the Communist Party of Greece, but I would point out that their criticism has also been annoyed there. All this just shows his personal perception of the functioning of democratic institutions and the measure of his resistance to parliamentary interactive procedures. I have to say - because it is important - that, in the process of hearing the bodies, on the basis of this personal attitude, he did not hesitate to address all Members of Parliament, suggesting all of us as being ethical. He even considered it appropriate to play, without great success, the irritated one. I mean, then, that. The representative of the SGEI answered a specific question from a colleague if there was another case of State intervention in the administrative functioning of the SGEI and towards the end of his reply he said that even at the time of the dictatorship this was not the case. The Minister took the view that he had the opportunity, because he heard the word 'dictatorialism', to offend everyone, and he was allegedly prosecuting us for a lack of democratic reflexes. It has indeed led the chairman of the committee, Mr Stylian, to the removal of this particular reference from the Minutes. In vain, ladies and gentlemen, you will seek it. There has therefore been a reaction from several Members and a corresponding comment, and obviously also from me. What's the accident for the Minister? But did it not make him any sense that the representative of the EGAA did not speak in comparison - which would, of course, be inadmissible - but was it simply dominating? So I inform those who do not know the sports history - and, indeed, they must learn it - that at the time of the junta there was indeed an attempt to intervene in the SEGAS by the unspeakable Secretary-General of Sports Aslanides - I was also a athlete - who, however, did not come to an end because of the opposition of the Federation and the unions. The reaction was the first of the then President of the SAGAS called Koutnadis, a hard-pressed perpetrator of the regime. I shall conclude by quoting the motions for resolutions, and I shall be tabling them in the Minutes. But we're not done there. In the last debate in the committee, the last and most desperate refuge of the Minister was to accuse us - and me personally, and our party, Mera25 - of having no opinion and no place for sport. 'Let go of bilingualism', he told us. “ Finally, who are you with? By administrations or by athletes?’ This is, of course, an unprecedented phony of ministerial invention, which has nothing to do with reality. Just the government - and not only today - is it common to promote such false forms of social automation - the known 'both against each other' - in order to promote its policies. These are used in particular when these policies cannot be justified in another way or at the same time and are not in the interest of revealing their real motivation. At a similar level, I could say, Minister, that you, for example, obviously have chosen to be with the old governments and not with the people who have been tested for years, because they have been subject to their policies which they have condemned and condemned today. Corresponding automation attempts to activate Mr.Avgenakis and with the unauthorized, in my view, tooling the Olympics. He wants to create and cultivate a climate of division in Greek sport only because he thinks this is of interest today. We're not participating in this game. We could bring in a number of other interventions, other Olympics, which are saying the opposite of the video that Mr Aygeakis told us yesterday and which came out today and they have made statements. You will not lure us into this catastrophe - it makes no sense - as far as sport is concerned. But let's hear a word about all the athletes who never became Olympians and who probably don't become all those who testify to their lives, with a daily effort, in the field. Will you, Minister, deal with them? There's nowhere in your bill, not even your logic. You haven't made a single reference to the real base of sport. Are you involved in the world of workers in sport, Minister? They don't even exist anywhere in your policy. But, without care for them too, you are not convinced that you are in the mood to ensure the proper functioning of sport in the country. Sport federations workers have been working unpaid for many months because of the well-known structural problems I mentioned at the outset. At this point I must say that we support - and we must all support - the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece yesterday to resolve this crucial problem, which involves serious bio- and social problems. The solution is, indeed, to subject their payroll to the General Secretariat of Sports and to pay it through the Single Payments Authority. And we also call on the government to immediately include it in the law we are discussing. It's a state's primary obligation towards them. One last thing, Minister. View and position for sport you know that it cannot be shaped in the background halls. There theme is exhausted in the pursuits of the service of specific economic and business interests or in the struggle to satisfy personal ambitions. We must reveal that these things are not sports or at least not just those, and they must not be them. It is therefore a huge mistake to subject all the action of the state in the field of sport to the theme and the selfish attitude of the disinclined atmosphere of behind the scenes and corridors. Because that's what you're doing, Minister. And this bill is a typical example. I conclude by saying that the framework for the parliamentary debate, Mr Minister, defines it in the bills tabled by the government. If you want to know, then, our view, our position, our vision of sport - is there, Mr Minister, the word 'vision' in your own language? - since you claim that you do not know them, as you said yesterday in plenary yesterday, two are the possible ways to find out: Or you will table a real sporting law, so all parties in Parliament will discuss them or else you can ask for a meeting to explain them to you in detail. However, on the basis of the debate on your legislative cut-off, it is certain that you will never know it, because the debate will always be fragmentary, incomplete and indifferent to sport, but also indifferent to its perspective, just as fragmentary and incomplete are your bills. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you to Mrs Sakorafa, for completing the course of speeches by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the topical and urgent question under number 16/19 and the date of tabling 26-2-2020, 20 (20) Members of the C.O. ‘COLOMA CHANGY’, a competence of the Ministry of the Interior on the subject: ‘The party purposes served by the multiple velocities for the crises of head of organic units of the ‘final’ state of New Democracy, scheduled to be discussed on Friday 18 September 2020, shall be postponed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister. We will now give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the sports bill, I wouldn't like to say a lot of things. I just think it was done to clear up accounts. It's a personal cleansing, but also party accounts. That's the reality. I don't hide my words. It's your choice. You regulate antiquities, you raise ages, you do what you want, you download them, every Minister brings a bill. In any case, I think it is a customer choice for the New Democracy, because you have no idea what the problem is in sport. Mr. Bubbas was quite right about saying that there are gyms in which from the ceilings there are water runs and children do sports, that there are lands that are destroyed. Don't forget the Olympic facilities. Mrs Angelopoulos' money, which has never been checked for what she had done for the Olympic Games and which, unfortunately, you've been planting it again in another committee, was abundant. No one was talking then, of course. Let me inform you that I was against the takeover of the Olympic Games from our country. I said it publicly back then. I wasn't a congressman. I was a journalist. But I was saying it's totally "symptomative" that we took over twice as many Olympic Games and went bankrupt after a few years. Look a little for you to understand what I mean. On the other hand, however, it was a big party. All the jets cut money and we were left with irons, beetles and installations, which, unfortunately, are destroyed every day. They've been kicked. Those who take copper - the Roma usually - lay out the wires, take the various items and become a real mess. The vandals are happy with the facilities. I won't talk about photographic devices. You've always done this anyway. You haven't changed mentality. The New Democracy, as well as the parties of power, understand that they have a culture of enforcing their own people and photographic provisions. I understand that. I cannot accept it, of course, but I can hear it because there have been seventy years. This is precisely the path of a state in which the ministers today - because I know very well what is happening - cannot function, because underneath there are some party 'plused' or PASOK or SYRIZA or some other parties. The reverse will happen when SYRIZA arrives. The underneath may be neo-democratic, kicking and thus not operating the public body. This is a reality, a pathetic one that we will only solve if we cut off the umbilical cord of the state structure from the ministries and the employees. I tell you that there are infinite examples. You all know that in here. We're just closing our eyes and trying to say we're ostrichs. It won't change the system like that. It doesn't change because he's the minister's best friend, the husband, the wife, to make him comfortable, to put him in, to pierce, to come and take him out. That's how it's done. And that applies not only to the ministries, but also to the municipalities and regions. The best friends. Others who are employees of a whole mechanism of the opposition party are opponents of the district, mayor, Minister, and, in essence, they had to be civil servants of the state and operate opposition and create bigger problems. Unfortunately, it is one of the great diseases, which will never disappear - I repeat - if the parties do not overcome themselves and do not see the public sector as a plundering area. You see it as a plundering area for the public. Become ministers and make post-mortem employees comfortable. Everyone does that, don't be fooled, like the public is our place. At some point the government must be weaned by the ministers or by the government's parties. It's no different. Otherwise we'll be a 20th-century state before. That will be our state when the other countries move forward. And to tell you how the system works in Germany. The Minister is Minister and the officials are subject to the discretion of the Ministry, but they are self-advised and autonomous to operate without orders. That's the reality. But we will never become a state like this, since this is how your party works, so New Democracy works. And let me tell you a very simple argument. If secretly there was a vote of one hundred and fifty eight Members of the New Democracy without knowing what their President is voting for and what happened yesterday, everyone would vote against, because you are all deeply patriots. That's true. But the party is considered to be a spoil of the respective President - even to us and to the other parties - face-to-face. It's wrong! Both the Constitution and the legislator state that the MP's difference is that he himself can change his mind regarding what his Chief does. The newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" comes out today and I have it in front of me and says: "Kyriako you have fought for northern Macedonia. The paper didn't say that. Zafe said so. And I wonder: Are the Macedonian MPs not ashamed? Aren't you really embarrassed? Aren't you ashamed of Zafe saying this thing in Athens? Aren't we ashamed? We all had to be ashamed of ourselves. He fought for northern Macedonia, the Greek Prime Minister, who had election embedded SYRIZA and said a number of things, that it is a shameful agreement. Some had escaped New Democracy and said they were treacherous, tender. The Prime Minister said it a little more elegantly - he has a civil courtesy - and said other things, he is creating data, he is bad, he is insulting, unscrupulous. And he's coming today and Zaf says he was working for Skopje! I wonder, doesn't this statement make us all ashamed? I know that the Members of the New Democracy from within are ashamed of them, because they are friendly and have a decent national. But this logic "the party above all and the Chief above all" is offensive to the personality of each Member of Parliament, is offensive to democracy. I am not saying to cast a Prime Minister elected on the basis of the Greek people's vote, but to change the question at least. It is a mistake what the Prime Minister does on many issues of power. Don't be fooled. And listen to Zaf's statement: "He has fought for us, battles for our European future, for NATO participation, and I am very pleased". I'll say one thing. Yesterday I asked our party experts to bring me the books from school in Skopje. She hasn't changed a single book. They're exactly the same, they're talking about Macedonia, they're talking about "Macedonia of the Aegean", they're talking about the Thermaic Gulf, they're talking about Thessaloniki. You didn't even do that. I am not talking about products anymore, wines, Macedonian flour. Tell me what we're doing? Of course, the worst part of all was what the Prime Minister said on 8 February 2019 to Mr Tsipras. Do you know what he told him? I will never say and will never welcome the Macedonian Prime Minister to the country. Yesterday he was welcoming him as a North-Macedonian party, a party fighting at the rally for Macedonia. And even Zafe said you were feeding us. We've watered them and fed them. And I told you, I have nothing with the natural faces of the New Democracy MPs. I know people there and you know that many people in SYRIZA and PASOK disagree with what is happening. But I cannot understand why to carry out the country's death orders and our historical rights. I don't get it. I'm really embarrassed. It's a disgrace! Let's go to the Prime Minister's lies. I cannot understand why we constantly tolerate Prime Ministers saying half the truth or lying. I'm not gonna lie to the Prime Minister. But I'll say she lied. I will not personally call myself a liar, because I respect the Prime Minister, his capacity, I respect his institutional role. But he lied to me. I don't know what he said to Mr. Tsipras. The Prime Minister showed Tsipras at the IGC. But I personally was never informed of any deal he made with Merkel and the Turks. Never! Speaking to Mrs. Gennamas and Mr. Loverdos, I would like to say that PASOK claims the same. So how do the two major parties agree on the assignment of national sovereignty? And don't tell me it's not an assignment. I'll answer for the assignment. I have the reply of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Iliopoulou. "The direction is de-escalation, it is dialogue, it is exploratory and it is The Hague," the Prime Minister says. So Tsipras lies to the Greek people. He's spoken to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is lying about the other party leaders and we are living in a vicious circle of false political leaders, who will never be believed because one calls the other a liar and one is hiding the truth from each other. That is the problem in our political system. We must be honest and say that yes, my child, that is our opinion and we defend it, as is the New Democracy's view of dialogue. But in earlier years, you have to make a written agreement in Berlin and go out to PD because you control all the media and lie, it's got a lot of difference, ladies and gentlemen. And the Prime Minister lied. And he lied as follows: 'It was not an agreement, it was an oral agreement that we recorded the oral agreement, but Turkey leaked it and there is no agreement'. It reminds me of the president of the Edessian in an earlier statement about the fight that he said they would come down, they wouldn't come down, they got down, they didn't come down and they left. Unfortunately, that's the truth, guys. And with these statements he himself exposes himself, he also exposes a branch of centre-rights, like Tsipras, another branch of centre-left lies! And I'll tell you something serious. At a meeting with Charles Michelle, the Greek Prime Minister said the Law of the Sea does not allow unilateral actions. And another lie, how many more lies? The Law of the Sea allows unilaterally the proclamation of an EOZ. Another proclamation and another delimitation. It's completely different things. A unilateral right to proclamation and it is not a unilateral one, I understand. Why would she keep lying? And I also want to say something else. If the Prime Minister wants to be believed and Mr Tsipras also believes that the two of them have not agreed on Greek-Turkish, as well as the sceptic, to give the Berlin minutes publicity to see who finally agreed on what the Greek Prime Minister secretly negotiated with the Greek people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Only that's how I'm gonna believe it, because I honestly don't know Mr. Mitsotakis now. I know him for 20 years, and I thought he was a reformer, that he had a new spirit to promote his presence. But he disappointed me and lets me down. And I would never say if he hadn't involved us in his lies, that we were informed. Also with what right does New Democracy change decades' foreign policy line? Is it possible to leave the sister Cyprus, the island of Aphrodite - where is the door to control the Mediterranean - alone? I don't get it. In other words, the Prime Minister says we should go to dialogue in The Hague while the Turks have research. And they don't do research in Cyprus anymore. They're drilling. Let me say about the 'ORUC REIS' - which I have another view, I would say to immerse it - that you were simply saying that you were doing research, it rapes us a little, not too much. In Cyprus there are regular drilling, is Turkey drilling illegally and we leave her alone? And I know that there are MPs here who agree with what we say - and SYRIZA, why not? - because deeper patriots inside of us may be all and we have that right. But I have another word to express. I'd like to make another statement to prove it. I'm just talking about fighting for something. It has a difference, and this is the difference of the Greek Solution, without screaming, without hystericals, without chauvinism, militarism, all these poor texts that have existed for decades in the Greek society that for me are sincerely condemnable, such as Nazis, fascism, all these ridiculous things. To have Greek only reason, Greek thought only. This is our difference for national good. Also - I will tell you - the way you are going, you gave Germany an alibi and, unfortunately, we are serving as government and we as a country the orders of Germany and we serve the Germans because they did not want sanctions to be imposed on 24 September. What did the Germans want? To get sanctions extended. They did not want to impose sanctions on Turkey. And what did you do? You gave the right to have Erdogan postponed for his sanctions. Because you said yes to dialogue and we discuss everything. You know what? You'll find them next door, yes. Find them with anyone, yeah. I don't disagree in dialogue at all, believe me. But a dialogue with prerequisites and prerequisites that call into question national sovereignty cannot be carried out. And I will tell you in a simple, popular way, because I am not a capitalist or a Kolonakiotis, I come from a village, Axos Giannitson, and they say in my village: in the mantle next to you you don't feed wolf. And unfortunately every day you feed the wolf called Turkey. Instead of demanding sanctions for the Prime Minister by making statements of dialogue and the Hague delays sanctions. The only diplomatic weapon that Greece has. We are talking about diplomatic, we are not talking about power and impact, which we have because we are a strong country. We have a Army, we have an Air Force, we have everything. But a diplomatic weapon was only sanctions. The Greek Prime Minister released it with a statement and no one reacted either from here or from nowhere. No one spoke. Especially by SYRIZA, which is an official Opposition, I expected another behavior, i.e. to go out on the bars and scream. What's that? Diplomatic weapon, war - diplomatic is, it's not let's shoot and kill. It was our diplomatic weapon, gentlemen of SYRIZA. He dismantled it and you said nothing on September 24th. Unless you as parliamentarians do not know that the President is speaking to you. Because this is indicated by the signs and images that exist. Don't you see it? Don't you hear that? Or do we believe Paulis's story was so symptomatic that some of them left here? Something's going on with your Chiefs, understand it. I don't know what. It'll be the story. The historian of the future will have a lot of work to do for this period because we have the new Prespecies that will be the Aegean. And also, because time is pressing, the New Democracy has not understood what Turkey is asking for. Calls for demilitarization of the islands. He's asking for islands. How are you going to conduct a dialogue without informing the Greek Parliament? How do you start exploring contacts when we don't know where we're starting and where we're going to end up? When you yourself say, unfortunately, with the Prime Minister that the only problem we are discussing is the continental shelve. No, wrong! We're talking about Imbro and Tenedo, which the Treaty of Losanne says things inside. They're ours, they're weapons we can talk about. The Treaty of Losan says something about Imbros and Tenedo. How do you dismiss this when others put Rhodes, Kalymnos and everything they find? How? You tell me. And if you're guys, and I'll say it like that, if you're Greeks and I believe it, 12 nm. now across the territory throughout the zone. Not a little cardt in the Ionian, a little from Crete, a little bit from here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Could I speak hours endless about the claims, but does Greece not demand that Greece withdraw its occupation troops from Cyprus when they demand the demilitarisation of the Aegean? Should Greece not require that the Greek Prime Minister does not require this? We could say a lot more. But I told you to practice the wrong tactic. And that's not all. No channel showed that, the channels show other things, how our coroner hits all, we'll die, put masks, put one on, terrorize the world, hang in the houses, lockdown, we'll die, but listen to what happened on August 24th. Commission proposal: 'Products from Turkey and Mediterranean countries in preferential trade arrangements'. A gift of about EUR 70 billion from Germany to Turkey was this and it went through the Commission. Nobody spoke. It is 70 billion facilities and duty-free. That is why the Prime Minister does not impose measures, it does not impose countermeasures on the Turks, that is, what we say 'close the Gardens to pay for it'. And instead of taking countermeasures, the New Democracy MEPs said yes to return duty-free products to Turkey to export. So these are mistakes, they're crimes, they're unbelievable. I could say about the billions of EUR exports from Greece. Listen a little, 23.6 billion euros are moving through Greece from Egnatia, please, to go to Europe, Turkish products. Another gun we have. We had the weapon that we dismantled, the sanctions, another weapon that we have not been implementing for months. How will Greece be believed by asking Europeans to impose sanctions and measures against Turkey when it can impose and does not impose? How will they believe you? We're being fun. They tell you they're either idiots or they'll make fun of us. Um, they're asking us to punish them, but they're doing nothing in the trucks that go through the Turks with the goods. And I told you there are ways. And you know I felt so bitter, I honestly said that when I heard the Danish Foreign Minister talking to the UN. The Danish Foreign Minister really humiliated our country. Listen to what the man, who did not dare to say Greek Minister, "Turkey is a criminal state. Erdogan is a war criminal." This was said by the Danish Foreign Minister to the UN, who has never dared Greek Minister or Prime Minister to say it. And the Prime Minister wants a dialogue with them, with the criminals. Who are you going to dialogue with? With the genocide of the Pontians, the genocide of the Greeks, the Assyrians, the Kurds, in our Cyprus, has never recognized all these genocide? With the barbaric rapist? Turkey has no history, has a criminal record full of felonies. How are you going to talk to him? And I'd like to go a little bit on a subject that really shocked me, I learned it this morning. The Minister of New Democracy, Mr Chrysochoidis, comes out, who violates international law. The Minister of New Democracy is violating International Law. How? It states that Afghans are entitled to asylum. Who said that? What international treaty says that Afghans are entitled to asylum? We're talking about Moria now, taking them from there and giving them asylum, she says, and papers. Where and how are they entitled to asylum? Tell me what law says this thing, that Afghans are entitled to asylum. The Syrians are entitled and entitled to Turkey as the first country. But the Afghan who is entitled to asylum? Greece is violating International Law blatantly. It's amazing. This is not the case in any country, because we constantly call for international law, but our Minister himself violates it. And a Greek judge, Mr. Ausgeakis, and he's tried a farmer who defended the Greek borders. Five Turks came across our borders, defended the man against the invaders, became a fuss, beaten him up, he's full of bruises and comes out of a Greek judge and condemns him for racism! This man is being convicted of racism on Evros, please. He's a farmer, he had his cows on the road there on the Evros river. They came in, went to pick them up not to come in, call the police, and they beat him up black. And because he defended and hit one of them, the Greek is convicted. The illegal incoming has a greater right than the legitimate defender. Where have you guys seen this? What kind of justice is that, you tell me? What justice is that! We have tabled a proposal for a law and, if you are a serious party, because I believe you are serious in here, accept it. There must be as a crime both Greek and Christianophobia. Not just Islamophobia. And Greek-phobia and Christian-phobia. Equal treatment for Greeks. We don't want anything more. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And now listen, let me close. Mr Liakos of SYRIZA comes out - I am sincerely ashamed of people - and he said: 'I would also set a fire on Moria'. He comes out as a university professor and says he would set a fire on Moria and a prosecutor doesn't intervene to tell him "Come here, this is inciting hate". When he comes out and says, "I, too, would set a fire in Moria" and at the same time, 15 fires, Evros, Samos, Chios, I tell you areas, Patras, near you and within hotspot, Moria a prosecutor should not be able to intervene? We convicted the farmer, we put him in jail. Those who stimulate hatred and violence against racism must not condemn them by Greek justice? The law is known, it is v.4285/2014. He is sentenced to prison from three months to three years. That's what Liakus has to suffer. Here's the law. I will submit him to the Minutes for the Minister of Justice, Mr. Chiara, to apply him to Mr. Liaco. It's an auto-professional offense. A prosecutor will stand up and say 'I'm not afraid and prosecuted by Mr. Liako'. It's amazing what's going on. And because they're good people, to show you how in Moria they were waiting for the fire brigade. Here, look. They're noble people. That's what the police found. I'm not talking about stones. That's what he found. These few who cause problems, however, and light fires, some defend themselves. They're few, yes, but these few can become the fire that'll raise the matter. I, too, was very sad. You've been fancy most of you in New Democracy, I'm sure of it, you've been soldiers, because here, okay, they have another perception, conscientious opposition, caranica, etc. It is their right and their choice. Is it possible for you to have the Greek Army make the bankers and maids, set up by Greek soldiers, who are other their jobs, scenes in illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants, refugees, as others tell them, to tell them about them, to do them the favor, and to see the NGOs, who have never booked, and to see the poachers of Greek soldiers building the disks that will be left by themselves? What, are they awkward? Is that a problem? What are they? I don't understand, they're disabled, and they can't do their own tents? What's our Army? You tell me, how do you honor our Army, don't you? We insist: New structures, human structures, lavatories, heating, cooling in the inhabited islands to end the social explosions. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because Moria doesn't deserve people, neither Chios nor Samos. Neither these people nor the Greeks who fear. That's what we're saying. If it is unreasonable or logical, it will prove to be at the end that the New Democracy will be pulled behind our choice. You're going to have to do that, too. Well, look at this. It's the image that the NGOs see with the illegal immigrants above the exterior how Greek soldiers built their tents. The Greek soldier who swore to keep the country from becoming a banker, not to say anything worse in my village - I don't want to say it - any poachers. It's a disgrace to all of us. The other colonel with gallons made a tent for the illegal immigrant. Our colonel! I'm not going to say that spatial planning is wrong, that it's an area of deportation from the other side. Nor will I say about the PPE, nor will I say about Samos yet what problems there are. But I will tell you this: tell me which normal man - honestly if he is in here, even left-wing and conservative - can sleep in cemeteries? Normal man, one! They took out the channels and said it, but they didn't say it: There are these from Mr Sinanis - if you look into the journalist's report - not from Skai and the other channels that we have been dizzy about. They called it. But is there a normal man who sleeps in cemeteries at night? Where have you guys seen this? And they went out and said "a pity the people who sleep there." I'd sleep on my way. In the earthquake of Thessaloniki on the street, we were all sleeping. Three nights, until the tents come and fall asleep in the cemetery! There's no normal behavior, I'm saying it directly, it's something abnormal. I would sincerely like to remind you of something else. Two days before Moria's on fire, the government comes out and approves the “SolidarityNow” 900,000 euros. George Soros, “SolidarityNow”. Mrs. Liberaki, she's a niece - I don't know - cousin of the Prime Minister, aunt?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u92	Cousin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u93	Cousin. Nine hundred grand in the minutes of the Parliament we give the “George Soros, SolidarityNow” two days before Moria, as if it were pasadebos. This is the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, will you need more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is the New Democracy that has not yet closed down the NGOs. It's the New Democracy that NGOs in the register never wrote. No NGO was written in the register you were talking about in here. I remember the gentlemen of the New Democracy who have a patriotic perception. Mr. Amyras, if I'm not mistaken, he said about the NGOs, he said it. They said they'd be written to NGOs and those who don't write, they'll be closed. Nobody's written. Turn them off now. Now let the NGOs close. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They broke the law and order of the Government, shut them down. I would also like to ask you this: I have a press release from the Greek Police, which says - and I will present it to you -: It is called Sohaid or Sohaim or Sohalim or Fochkov or Abderzak or Mekemi or Abdelmalek (name) Abdersa or Abdelsa or Vladimir of Ali or Ivane and Aja or Haja. This gentleman has seventeen names. Go find him then if he leaves. So I'm telling you the self-evident things. I won't say any more. I'd like to say something about the coronary, because some here misunderstood what the Greek Coronary Solution said. Velopoulos implements the law, as does all Greek Solution. We're wearing the mask because it's a state law. But I disagree about children under twelve years of age and I will insist on that. They are neither sprayed nor insane, nor vaccinated by any Hassan can be Greeks, as the New Democracy does, and the Prime Minister said he will inoculate us. But we live in undemocratic historical times. Listen, I want you to listen to me. You're applying the matter of Gering. Do you know what Gering is? The general knows about it here. He said the only thing that it takes to control the world is to scare him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u96	I'm not a general, I'm an admiral.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u97	Isaxius is general and admiral.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u98	You're an Admiral, aren't you? My apologies, I haven't set you down, though. I am not changing, your party is changing a lot from what he was saying in the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u99	Please continue and be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u100	I'll be done. Article by the Professor of Medicine of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki - my Admiral, my respects! - Mr. Kouturas John. Conclusions of investigations. I have it here, there are too many books, where neither too much nor too much says that a mask under twelve years is dangerous for our children. I will not read it, I will testify to it in the Minutes for the New Democracy MPs to give it to each Majorkin, to every Dermitzakis, to every sypska and to every one of those who are scientists, but there are other scientists who say others. Especially Mr. Dermitzakis, I want to say something, and I'm going to close up here, because I've had a lot of time. Mr. Dermitzakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u101	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u102	Don't you like what you hear, Mr. Ausgeakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u103	I am not addressing you, I am addressing the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u104	You don't like to hear us? You don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u105	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u106	Okay. When the Prime Minister speaks, Mr Ausgeakis, he speaks three times more than his time. I'm a party president, I don't know if you're forgetting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u107	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Aygeakis is annoyed. PAOK, Olympiacos, thinks of the CSCE as being curious, Marupa and the others. You want to talk about this? So don't challenge me because I didn't want to go that far. Personal controversy I never made in my life, personally, and I don't want it. Closed to Mr. Dermitzakis. Mr. Dermitzakis, do you know what he said? That the Divine Reception, the Divine Society must be banned. He went out and told SKAI. The Divine Reception must be forbidden! I'll tell you one thing. You can play with worlds, you can play with worlds, you can play with worlds and terror and fear. Science says other things, the World Health Organization says other things, are written online by the World Health Organization that says that under twelve years of age it creates risks, but it will never allow you to play with faith, Orthodoxy, the Church and all that unite us. That's enough, because you crossed the line, not logic anymore, but Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u109	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u110	I would like to talk later, and I would like to hear a few colleagues, but I would like to ask my colleagues and recall that we are in Parliament and we are discussing a bill on sport. Don't get confused, because we've heard the President of the Greek Solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u111	I'm a party president. The President speaks as much as he wants. You read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u112	So long we have heard the President of the Greek Solution, without interrupting any New Democracy Member discussing just one minute about sport and the rest of course about other issues that he considers to be a priority. However, my dear Mr President, on the issues you have raised and about sport, I can tell you clearly that we are at your disposal to answer and use them for sporting purposes. We are at your disposal - I told your rapporteur, after all - ask a timely question and here we are discussing everything, because we have done a job on this issue. That's the one. Secondly, as far as the latter is concerned, I am pleased, Mr President, that both Greek MPs and all the parents respect the advice of our health experts and the Greek schools properly, compared, in every previous period and most of the children, despite the reactions, despite the difficulty due to the younger age, they obey and respect the advice of experts. And this, I would ask you to conclude today's debate on this issue. I would ask you, therefore, to return to sport which has been very coordinated in the Parliament's channel, seeking to hear about the issues and views of all the parties and listening to other issues which, of course, are an inalienable right of the President of each party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you are well aware of the fact that you are an old parliamentarian, that the parliamentary representatives, much more than the Members of Parliament, apart from any reference to the draft law under discussion, have the possibility of being placed, if you like, on the basis of the timeliness or on the issues that they can and choose. So they can't be restrictions like that. Others the admonition that I take from you that it was done in this direction to discuss a bill. We now have several hours ahead of us. Thirty-four speakers have, as you know, been included in the list of speakers with Mr Ljupi first. Until Mr Ljupi comes to the fore, I will also inform my colleagues that, after contacting the Bureau with all the groups, no request for a roll-call vote will be tabled. We say this to schedule your time or obligations and the rest of the Members, because if we had a roll-call vote, it would be late in the evening. Mr. Ljupis has the time for seven minutes and a warm request to keep the time of the seven-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill focuses on correcting small and larger distortions so that the sport world can gain healthier and transparent procedures. The bill brings about changes in the conditions of registration of a sports club, the functioning of its organs and the conduct of antiquities. Allows active coaches to be at the same time members of a respective sports club, when as athletes they were Olympics, that is, they took from the first to the eighth place in the Olympic Games. Another significant change, which covers a gap, is that it is explicitly forbidden to participate in the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of Sport Unions that are active in the marketing, manufacture and application of mechanical and electronic parts and spare parts. This ensures the independent and unaffected functioning of the associations of motor sports. It is important that the bill regulates the unions themselves through their statutes, based on their needs, as to issues related to the archaeology, organs of the union and conventions. Equally important is the provision which provides for a personal and only participation in the general meeting at the same time as exclusion of voting by a proxy. It claims to be inconsistent in the antiquities of a sports club with the compulsory participation of a lawyer as chairperson of the Electoral Committee. Simplify and rationalise the procedure for issuing a specific sport recognition certificate for a club. Only the registration of the club in the respective sporting association or federation is certified, and if 10 days have elapsed since the application for a certificate, an implied acceptance of the attestation shall be presumed. At the same time, the importance of special sporting recognition is being asserted, since a sporting club that does not have it and which is not registered in the General Secretariat of Sports will not have access to sports facilities belonging to legal persons under the supervision of the General Secretariat of Sports. An important step is taken to have sports associations that genuinely express the sports clubs that make them. They are excluded from having the right to vote in the sports union elections - ghosts, which do not have a racing activity and which adversely affect the election result. The change made to the Board of Directors of the Sport Federation is important, so that athletes themselves are actively involved in shaping the positions of each federation. In this direction, a representative of active athletes from every sport representing federation is now taking part without the right to vote. A regulation is introduced to the bill for fairer representation in the plenary session of the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee. The number of active Paralympics involved in the administration is increasing to three out of one that existed to date. This gives an active and essential role to the Paralympians themselves at the decision-making stage. The development of a sport with a small number of teams, such as football people with amputation, is pushed by three instead of five recognized unions to form a federation. One of the key changes of the bill is the possibility that the active athletes will now be able to take on a coaching role at the same time. An additional translation period for sports federations is introduced, and now twice a year and for a longer period, sixty instead of thirty days, the transfer of athletes will be done by offering flexibility of choice and travel to athletes and clubs. An unjust provision that did not have the right to molecules for admission to TECHA or to another Pupil School, who had obtained athletic discrimination, is corrected, but in the school year he relocated from high school to another. Given that the relocations for students are freely allowed, it was the least absurd and unfair that an excellent athletic performance should not be recognized to a student. In fact, there is a special provision for schoolchildren who are in an adverse position today because of the cancellation of world championships and European championships because of the pandemic. They will be able to quantify for HEIs on the basis of the results they had in 2019 or that will have in 2021. Another void that existed to date was that the accompanying athletes were not granted the same rights as the athletes with disabilities they assist. It is not just an escort, it is athletes who are struggling with disabled athletes and achieve the same sporting results with them. With the new arrangement and the escorts of athletes will be recorded in the table of distinguished athletes in the Secretariat-General. Today's bill caused reactions from the standpoint of counterpopulation. Obviously, on such complex issues, there are neither easy answers nor magically solutions. There is a remarkable effort to overcome pathogens in the field of sport, amateur and professional. The changes that we are debating today are decisive, in order to gradually change the attitude, to regain the sports clubs and associations more transparent procedures and, above all, to have the athletes, the protagonists, in other words, a stronger voice in the formation of the sport future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Lippi, and the economy in time. Mr Marcos Konstantinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the obligation, in order not to create impressions from the previous speaker, from the President of the Greek Solution, to make it clear once again that the Left does not receive lessons of patriotism from anyone and above all from the representatives of the extreme right. I did not expect the extreme right to be honest, because the statement mentioned by Mr Liakou, a well-established international academic and doomed over a long time imprisonment, said: "If I was 17 years old, if I lived in Afghanistan, if everyone were killed around me, if I was hungry and started walking to the Promised Land, and then I was in the hellhouse called Moria, then I could also set fire." But I don't expect the patriots to be straightforward. I'm coming to the bill now. The Minister is now absent, but I am sure he will be informed. I'll start with this. He also referred to his speeches in committee, but I am sure he will do so now, in facts and statements on which SYRIZA officials had already been placed in the past, on contentious issues such as the one we are discussing. He mentioned in particular SYRIZA MPs, such as Mr Psychogios, Mr Constantinea, Mrs Aylonite and others. I would advise him not to repeat this because, as our rapporteur, Mr Moraitis, has rightly said, these positions were in complete harmony with what we have today. I would advise him, however, to read from the Minutes, despite the fact that it was a self-sufficient witness, that Mrs Bakoyannis was present at the committee meeting. I read, for instance, from the Minutes, what Mrs Bakoyannis - Mitsotakis says: "It is in dispute and I must admit that I, too, find it hard to understand, because in the previous law you came out and withdrew the retroactiveness. Reiterate the same article, and here it is important "and I do not imagine that this is a sign of good legislature and, in particular, of Mr Mitsotakis' modernist government for some reason". So Mr Aygeakis' legislation is not in line with Mr Mitsotakis' modernist policy today. That is the problem, not what SYRIZA Members said. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the government is actually trying to put new Caliphs in the position of the Caliph for reasons of customer policy and the service of political interests. All contributors in Jerusalem know and which caliphs he wants to drive away and who the caliphs are waiting for. Some of them, even - perhaps from this Chamber - have already worn the carnival turbine. Of course, the strong objection of the Change Movement is actually because it is trying to defend some of the Caliphs that already exist. These hybrids - I speak in the medical sense of the word - of the federations have a flow from one or the other, depending on the interests. They remind me of something that was before the Revolution, thieves and chariots. The thieves tried to become chariots from the Ottoman Empire and exercised economic and political authority. These chariots who lost their chariot, became thieves and thieves, who were thieves, became chariots. This is the scenery right now. I will now come to specific issues of the bill, which we have discussed in committees. One big - big issue: we have been living the problem of the coronary for six months now. What is the government's aid to amateur associations, to the hundreds, to the thousands of amateur associations, both in terms of their functionality, activity and health protection for students? None. And that's accountable. I am entering individual articles, one - without considering the order as important. Representation of athletes: Indeed, it is a good view, it is a good idea and we agree with it. However, what the bill does not mention at all is how this representation of athletes will take place. In what procedures will athletes be represented? The next day of the bill will simply remain a chaos, which will create greater problems than what is going to solve and will prove this. Secondly - Mr Moraite also mentioned this - why should the penal punishment of interested parties be irrevocably penalised for their common sport? In other words, the Marios Ice, which is the irrevocable decision and who judges about ten years of a case, will be a doomed finalist for a decade. Do you hide anything or do you just think it's a failure? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. We're going to the judges of the Greek Gymnastic Federation. He said the Minister is about eighty that they need to cover the championships, and so it is limited when they cannot participate. So, with the article introduced by the government, how many will get into the councils by judges? One or two. Is the problem solved? Here's another picture. Someone who intends to join the public and the Federation and the government adopt it. The Minister spoke about the renewal of the data. By introducing the 2/3 crusade into the single ballot what other than the fact that he is setting up a carpet, which will perpetuate the current situation, a new possible carpet? Because with two-thirds the crucifixion will get the majority and nothing else will move. Is that protection from partyism? On the contrary. It's beneficial to partyism. I'm ending up with two more issues. Firstly, we have told the committees, unions and federations that they have the right to be members of the boards of directors of individuals who are registered in a club. In order to send a representative of the federation to the Hellenic Olympic Committee, it does not need that. And we have the phenomenon of various globes - literally - who want, for political image reasons or for reasons we cannot see them on the immediate spot, to enjoy, to take the anointing from a federation and go to the Hellenic Olympic Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Marcus, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u118	Wait a minute, honestly. To go to the Olympic Committee and represent a sport that has not been passed from outside. Minister, change it. Those who go to the Hellenic Olympic Committee should be members of union and federation, basically federation. I conclude with the question that exists and is not at all affected by the status quo which institutionalises the role of amateur athletes and, above all, minors. There is a hostage that minor athletes cannot release until the twenty-four of them from the club and are hostaged by the presidents of their clubs many times and indeed, with phenomenal phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u119	All right, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u120	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u121	Three times you said you were done. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u122	Minister and gentlemen of the government, the next day from the bill that will be passed today, it will be worse for sport rather than better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u123	Mrs. Charia Kefidou from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law could be a coordinated effort to reform sport, even in part, which would gradually develop on a well-processed, mainly reorganisation plan in the field of sport. It could give true weight not to athletes and athletes as very specific units, but to sport, instead of using them for publicity of government policy. It could have been if this were a priority for the leadership of the Ministry of Sports. The Undersecretary of Sports has brought a bill of tactical and helpful, it's true, for many, surrounding it with the cloak of another reform. Each Ministry has recently become accustomed to baptising legislative initiatives as reforms. It's a lot of fashion, the term. It's kind of like an accessory, as a badge, evidence of the productivity of New Democracy's governance. He's supposed to put order in sports. But the truth is more pedestrian. It comes to change the existing problematic order of things in sport with a new equally problematic, sufficiently helpful for some, handy and extremely risky. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law threatens the country with an Olympic Grexit, as the press described it. The International Olympic Committee, the ILO, in its letters, can observe the rules of courtesy and express formality, but its content and warnings are clear. It is obvious that the leadership of the Ministry of Sport continues to ignore or even overlook the fact that the ILO is being treated as Head of State. The letter of the President of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, to the Prime Minister, should have made a lot of people lose their sleep, because it is good for the brinklers, but not for us to become internationally reckless. Can the President of the ILO tell us that the state intervenes in an unauthorised manner with the federations of Olympic sports for the adoption of provisions with retrospectiveness by violating the Olympic Charter and the Ministry to whistle indifferently? Is it possible to threaten the country that gave birth to the Olympic idea with sanctions for exit from the ILO and exclusion from the preparation and events for the Tokyo Olympic Games if the relevant provisions are passed and the Secretary of Sports continue to defend the irreversible handling of such a serious issue? All of us in this Chamber are in favour of good governance in sport and the institutions that govern it. From there, however, until the regulations abolishing the self-government of sport, as established by the 5 fundamental principle of the ILO's Olympic Charter, there is a huge distance. The representatives of the ILO also stressed this at the hearing of the bodies, but also the leadership of the State Secretary for Sport once again did not hear. Ladies and gentlemen, we have waited for a bill that would restore vision and the prospect of sport, which would heal pathogens, which would express the independence of sports actors and ensure it, which would promote renewal with respect for their autonomy. Instead, you brought us the evidence of the state's insufficiency to offer sport more than microdispositions through photography and coarse state interventions. Where's the national sport plan? Do you mean that it is used up to changes in the way the management bodies of sports clubs, associations and federations are known, or do you think that the unacceptable retrospective power in the provision on the term of office and administration is a major reform? Where are the strategies for the development of Greek sport within the bill? At a juncture of cosmogenic changes that nothing will be like before, any sporting reform cannot be confined to changes in structures of the type 'go away, come on', but also to a set of fragmentary provisions. After so many months of discussions with the representatives of sport, we expected your legislative initiative to reflect what you advertised, normality, calmness, a spirit of cooperation with the stakeholders. We have waited for a plan that would provide solutions for tomorrow to sport, taking into account the new conditions that the pandemic has shaped. Instead, you brought a bill that exposes the country, divides the sports world, creates new controversy and does not say a word about the future of sport, this future for which some, that is, our athletes, have devoted their lives. In your advertising campaign for the bill that you used to exhaust athletes there, all of them did not establish the shirt, as one of the New Democracy MPs said, to be preachers of any political party. They founded her not alone. A lot of people cost themselves behind them, mostly because they're passionate about what they're doing. So this passion is admired, recognized, honored, inspired for many, but is not redeemed and is not exchanged. Well done, Minister, and you want to put order in the sports landscape with transparent procedures, but - firstly - this is not sport reform. At best, it's a housekeeping. Secondly, it wants a way and it is not by violating international rules, because in the field of sport there is no place for state intervention. Thirdly, ensuring transparency is not implemented through controlled sporting organisations. Fourthly, it is not by means of photographic provisions such as Article 1(3), which introduces the exception that the active coach of a sport may be elected to the Board of Directors and other statutory sports federations provided that he has won the first or eighth victory in summer or winter Olympic Games and, of course, Article 6(7) concerning the establishment of age and child restraint limits for members of the sports federations, because this is then otherwise called. Ladies and gentlemen, in this generally disappointing climate of an athletic reform that has never come with the draft legislation, it is a good surprise that the Ministry has adopted proposals from institutions and our own. While in Article 8, the reduction from five to four of the representatives of the EEIGH did not accept it, Article 28(8) finally sets out the six-month deadline for the publication of the law on the receipt of special sporting recognition. I conclude by saying, Minister, that after ten months of consultation this draft law did not make us any more happy or made us feel justified. And our country sees history repeating itself. Previously, they fought the self-defence of the NGO, you self-defenced sports actors. The country is being invoked by the International Olympic Committee for unacceptable state intervention in the self-government of sports players and at risk - I say again - with the exclusion of the Olympic Games. Your intentions are good, we have no reason to question them, but you know that when one exercises command, it is judged by the result, and that is what matters, and that is what you will judge, and the result of this draft law does not honor you and, above all, does not honor the government and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u125	Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today concerns issues which also touch our most sensitive human chords. The reason why I'm going to break it down for you. Allow me, then, to refer specifically to a few points which, unfortunately, have highlighted, although they concern a great deal of our fellow people in those areas where the right of SMEs, people with special competence, as I call them, to sport. This draft law provides for the amendment of Article 29 of Law No 2725/1999, and correctly refers to paragraph 1, that sporting for disabled persons is a particular sport under the protection of the State. From that point on, there is always room for improvement, especially in such a draft law which has to do with our culture, because it is culture that our state does not leave our fellow people with different kinds and degrees of disabilities in the corner, and especially that it does not deprive them of the joy of sport. For example, in paragraph 3A, which provides for the development of football of mutilated people, all sports that are not recognised as paralympic could be added. Because it's not just football, however popular it is as a sport. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, should we rule out, even one of our fellow citizens, from the good of sport? Let us develop, alongside football, all sports, which are not paralympic in our homeland. Let us first give the Greeks an example. But I would like here to make an addition, which I think should be in the bill. It says, therefore, the draft law, Article 29(3), that in order to identify a sports club as a trade union of its athletes, it must be at least fifteen people. However, this is not right, ladies and gentlemen, because there are parts of the country, for example, the islands, where it is difficult to gather 15 people with disabilities to establish a sports club. So if he's fourteen people, he's not going to be a union? So why did this restriction come into the bill? Why don't we think of these souls, all the souls, of people with disabilities and their need, their right above all to sport? Is it possible a number, a number, to deprive them of it? We shall now proceed to the matter of the Paralympic Committee's plenary session. The plan, paragraph 9A, tells us that the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee, consisting of eleven members, participates four representatives of the National Sports Federation of Disabled Persons. And I ask, should this figure not be larger, that is to say, that these people have more reason to the administrative things of the committee, which, after all, is about the Paralympians? Finally, let us give these people a lot more voice. Let's dare. Because it's a matter, above all, civilization and humanity. Finally, I'm going to make a more general placement on the bill. We as a Greek Solution reserved for taking a position in plenary, precisely because we do not see any specific target in the draft law on the real strengthening of our sport. Why am I saying that? Because today, in conditions of pandemic, which form a new reality, many sports clubs face major problems, even their final closure. And you know, apart from the athletes, there are also workers in these clubs, who are worn for our economy and society, if they are added to the armies of the unemployed, left behind by the shrinking of tourism and our focus. How these unions and workers will be effectively strengthened in terms of government planning. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this draft law could be much better and even better if it took into account the new data created by COVID -19 and close to the regulations which really solve years' problems, becoming other important areas for our sport and especially for people with disabilities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. The State Secretary, Mr. Aygeakis, has asked for the floor, and then Mr. Skourletis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u128	And then Mr. Skourletis, I'd like the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u129	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days, we had an extremely interesting and fruitful debate, a debate which highlighted disagreements and different views, but at the same time it showed agreement on points of view and positions, I would say, on key issues of sport. Sport is an integral part of the culture of Greece, the birthplace of the Olympic Games and the Olympic ideal. Sport is a source of timeless values that have shaped but continue to shape and influence our culture, such as fair play, excellence, constant effort to improve. Sport is a huge cultural heritage. For the ancient Greeks the cultivation of the body is as important as the cultivation of the spirit. In classical Greece, the two areas of human activity were sport for the body and music for the spirit, which included philosophy and the theatre. Of course, even in modern Greece, sport is under the protection and supreme supervision of the state. According to the Constitution, the State is under an obligation to support sport. I am referring to Rule 12. Of course, sport has two more features, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, successes in our sport unite the Greek people, create a sense of national pride and also of unity, and that is something we need as a country, more than ever. Secondly, sport brings the peoples of the whole world closer together. It creates a spirit of peace, of cooperation between the peoples and is a tool for foreign policy. Sport, beyond its enormous cultural value, is also a large and powerful economic industry, with many important aspects and prospects. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's policies on sport are designed in conjunction with our policies on culture, education, health, the economy as a pillar of development. We want sport for the many, especially for the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, in sport we have to catch the mit of a fight from the outset, from what sport means as a concept, from the values of sport as a valuable social and cultural asset. Before entering the essence of the issues and provisions of our draft legislation, I will briefly discuss the picture of sport in our country today. Today we have the basis of the sport hierarchy, the healthy core of sport activity in our country, the athletes themselves, the protagonists, that is, who manage, in a difficult environment, with personal hardship, at personal costs and at over-zealously zealously, to discriminate in our country and not just. Of course, I know and recognize all of us in this Chamber that the economic crisis over the last ten years has hit sport, as has many other sectors. I say this because I do not want to unfair the administrations of sports federations in terms of the difficulties and adversities they had to face and continue to operate difficult in the pandemic era. This is the one side of the coin. On the contrary - and I want to be absolutely honest - we also have sports bodies, clubs, associations and federations, where the arterio-clearing of their mechanisms, the lack of transparency and democracy within them and a number of other pathogens create conditions of suffocation in the field of sport. It's what we say the comb has reached the knot now. It is now absolutely necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for us to change the bad texts, for there to be a renewal. We need new blood in our country's sports stuff. We need to open sails for sports development, get out of the way. They're now talking about facts, athletes, agents. Clearly, I don't want to be unfair and selfish at the top of the sporting building. But I think that the administrative renewal, democratisation and the housekeeping of sports organisations are absolutely essential. We believe that the voice of the base of the sporting construction must be heard and that all together the next day with the experience of the older and freshness of young people, we must be able to design sport for the future as it is today. As you can see, the sporting reform of our Government, with the current legislative and not just initiatives, is developing a step forward and we are moving forward on the basis of a plan. This mandate, ladies and gentlemen, was given by the Greek people to our Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis. We are implementing this mandate, a step, with absolute consistency in what we have said here, in this Chamber last November in the debate of our first bill at the time, which was, in fact, the beginning of self-evidentness for many years of sporting reform. Our ultimate goal is to ensure that sport is constantly in the hands of healthy forces, to exalt the sporting ecosystem, to highlight positive and developmental forces, to give clean, fresh oxygen to federations' administrations, athletes and athletes, to give the power to go forward and with them to lure another new world. So the draft law we are debating today is a necessity, ladies and gentlemen. It is a battle with self-evident, an incision to sport and proof of it is that they embraced it by bodies, clubs, Olympians, Paralympians, amateur athletes, factors, the whole base of sport, the healthy part of sport, which we want to help to bring it up even more. What we are doing today is what many people have been discussing, seeking to do, I wanted to do so, they wanted the good of the country's sport. I am not in any way questioning the intentions of my predecessors, who have found, like myself, specific interests and powerful forces in every attempt to implement normality and self-evident. For the sports reform that we are taking a step - a step forward - is the revolution of self-evident, because it must be self-evident to limit the isobic administrations to sports federations. It goes without saying that it is necessary to limit the factors that use each sport to gain importance in society rather than to serve sport and athletes. It must be self-evident that they can be activated, also by administrative posts, the Olympians, the Paralympians, our champions if they of course want to. It must be self-evident to want to house the sporting landscape, to put order, always in transparent procedures, on a semi-legal status in sports clubs and to have the right to elect only active and legitimate amateur clubs that have been registered in the Register of Sports Entities of the General Secretariat of Sports. It must be self-evident to support amateur sport in practice, giving direct grants to clubs. Our government, after twelve years, has allocated an amount of EUR 12 million for their immediate support, which will be distributed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, with absolute transparency and three objective criteria. The grant criteria must be purely racing. Number of athletes, number of coaches and number of sports. And since there has been a lot of talk about lists and registers and it is called "what you are doing", ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that already on the site of the General Secretariat of Sport has been posted all the list of organizations that have applied, they have been registered, they are numbered five thousand two hundred and twenty, of which two thousand seven hundred thirty have completed their file and have already been checked by the services. For example, for some federations, what is the number of unions that have been signed? For the NCA, where we thought it would reach four and five thousand amateur unions according to their statement, it would reach eight hundred four. For the EEC, it is up to three hundred eighty. For the SINGLE, it's only two hundred and twenty-three. For the Sailing Federation, it reaches a hundred and ten. I'm putting down the list, which, anyway, is now accessible to everyone, without any discrimination, without being mine or yours, adorable or unsatisfactory. Everyone who cares about sports and federations in our country already has a picture. We've said it, we're doing it. That means transparency, that means consistency. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It must be self-evident that the state should legislate, ladies and gentlemen, tax and other development incentives. By now reducing VAT on fan tickets, reducing the tax on contracted athletes and coaches, making it easier or better to motivate sponsors and donations. And we are not going to stop here by voting on this draft law, we are going to make it clear. As we have informed you in the committee in the previous days, we will shortly thereafter proceed to tabling the next draft law, which will regulate the landscape in the country as regards the field of coaching and coaching, for which we are also committed to creating a digital register in the General Secretariat of Sports, and will identify and record the new trends and the new context that are needed for the new forms of sport of the time, such as alternative sport, non- racing, entertainment, special unions, sports clubs, fan clubs and the new framework for the operation of the Committee on Professional Sports. On today's bill, the draft law we are discussing has two key pillars. First pillar: we are in fact strengthening amateur sports clubs. With the arrangements we are introducing, we are making it self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, by operating for the first time a register of amateur sports clubs. In other words, the self-evident thing that many have announced, that you all agree and that our government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, should come to do so. And not only because they are now recognised by the state, not only because they will have the right to direct financial support from the state, but because all active and legitimate unions will have the right to vote, they will have an enhanced role in the events and in the development of the sport they serve. In other words, we are giving the voice of amateur sport, the foundations of the sport pyramid, which is the sport pyramid, of course. The second pillar is that we have a role and a say for the athletes themselves, with more active but also more effective involvement in the administrations of their own federations. For the first time, we are also introducing the presence of athletes in their federations, with the right to vote. We have said and acted, and this is a commitment to the athletes, who give their lives to reach peaks. We give them the right to speak and vote within their federations. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In detail, the draft law consists of six parts. Firstly, hindrances, general assemblies, antiquities of sport, transparency, democracy, participation. The exercise of antiquities in sports federations is extended for forty-five days. The elections of the sports federations may be held in the last two months of 2020 and no later than 15 February 2021. Coma: the period after which a person is considered to be a non-active coach in the two months following the submission of the authorization to pursue a profession shall be determined. In addition, the active coach of a sport may exceptionally be allowed to be a member of a sports club, which cultivates the sport itself and participates in the board as well as with the founding bodies of a federation if as an athlete he has won from first to eighth in the Olympic Games. It shall be expressly prohibited to participate by means of a proxy in the antiquities of sporting organisations. Does these delegations which appeared just before the elections remind you of something? That's over. Only the members of the administrations to be designated by decision of the board of directors will have the right to vote and the list will be known to all parties. In order to ensure the integrity of the procedures of the antiquities, it is laid down that the three-member EOB in the archiving archivings shall be headed by a lawyer as a judicial representative appointed by the relevant Bar Association. The federations' elections will be held with a single ballot consisting of two separate sections. The first section shall be the candidates and the second shall be the candidates. In the elections he crosses the candidate for his preference and is entitled to cross candidates up to 2/3 of the total in terms of election. This is how a reinforced analogue system is achieved, and this is how we avoid malfunctioning phenomena, but also inability to make decisions in simple analogue systems, as is the case with many municipalities in our country, and here is the creator and inspire of this atrocity that is currently suffering hundreds of municipalities in the country, Mr Skourletis. We simplify the procedures for providing special sporting recognition to clubs. We heard dozens of complaints and you're right. And instead of telling us a good thing that we are simplifying the procedure, you are looking at us, because we have implemented a law of Vassiliou that has really put many difficulties, and we want to simplify and facilitate even more unions, complete their file, or pre-register and proceed with legalisation procedures. And in this process, what do we do? We're not fighting anyone, we're protecting each other, ladies and gentlemen. We protect parents and athletes, that is to say, all coaches, but above all - I repeat - parents and students if the association that has trusted their child is legal or operates in the irregularity or illegality or if another union that arrives at the mayor's office for financing is legal or operates according to the appetites of some of the petty friends. That is why the register, as we committed ourselves at the first moment, will be and is accessible to all who want to know what is happening to our country's sports family. Now only sports clubs, represented by one representative, member of the regular board, I said before, while the electoral list includes only clubs with special athletic recognition, have been entered in the register of the General Secretariat of Sports Article 142 of Law 4714/2020 and in the last two years before the elections participated in official sports events with at least eight athletes for at least individual and at least twelve athletes for group sports. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of the "stamp unions", i.e. ghost unions, which, while not having any racing activity, were, however, normally voted on in the elections with a "father-air" proxy, thus altering the election result in several cases. The General Assembly of the Sport Federation may decide at the same time to carry out antiquities at the seats of its members associations. It shall also decide at the same meeting on the election of the members of the commissions. Moreover - and keep this - because we are very concerned about transparency in the candidate presidents may appoint their representatives to one or the polls of associations that are aware of in advance of their establishment on the same day as elections. We are giving the athletes a voice, since their representative will normally participate in the Board with the right to vote, as I mentioned a little earlier. Let's go to second section, sport of disabled people. In practice, we support HEI sport, we refer to the Paralympians with three seats in the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee. We reward athletes after so many years of fairer and in accordance with the principles of sport representation in the eleven-member plenary session of the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee of the individual bodies of the National Sports Federation of Persons with Disabilities EAM - S.A., the Federation of Greek Basketballists with Amoxidation OSE and the Paralympics. From now on, the Greek Paralympic Committee will have four representatives in the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee as much as the categories of disability. There is an increase in the number of active Paralympic athletes in three and with legislative improvement, which we will then submit, fully harmonises the age limit of the members of their own federations in the EIA with that of the members of the UN. It was a request for a consensus of all stakeholders with the Paralympic Sport Movement at the hearing of the bodies. The creation of a federation for the sport of football amputors is encouraged. Decisions of three associations will be required at least for the establishment. We facilitate their start-up, it's the state's obligation, and we do it. As we have said, with reverence, but also consistently with the law of the register of coaches and a parallel training activity of the active athletes in another category from which they are struggling. Introduction of the concept of instructor in the sports of shooting and archery. Abolition of the obstacles to non-recognition of the distinction between pupils and athletes, provided that this distinction is achieved during the school year when the transfer took place from one high school to another in group sports. Granting benefits for exceptionally discriminatory discrimination to male athletes accompanying fights for disabled persons. Fourth section is the creation of a National Macolin Convention Platform, where the national platform is implemented against "strengthed". The national platform, which is responsible for collecting information against manipulation of sports matches and transmitting them to the competent authorities and organisations, is set up, as well as for coordinating actions against manipulation of sports games. It shall provide the competent authorities or sports organisations or sports betting operators with information on possible infringements of laws or regulations. I move on to the fifth section at the St. Cosmas Sports Centre. We fully guarantee the workers in Agios Kosmas. The investment in Greek goes hand in hand, but ensuring the working rights of all the employees employed by the legal person governed by public law, the National Sports Centre for the Youth of "Agios Cosmas". Six, airborne dome. With a simplification of licensing procedures, multiply sports facilities or more properly closed coaches. The required license is regulated in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment for the placement in municipal and public public areas of a new generation of air-supported domes for the accommodation of sports activities throughout the year. That is what our country needs to do to a very large extent. We have heard it, we have received it as a request from the CEDEFOP, and we are doing it in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. Overall, this bill is the consolidation of the framework of the sports reform of our government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with the ultimate aim of leading Greek sport firmly to orbit, to highlight, but also to increasingly mobilise, healthy productive forces. Our household is self-evident, that is, we are applying what many years have been said, but with many difficulties they have always managed to make the way for many previous colleagues. We are fans of renewal, transparency and household. This mandate was given to the national elections a year ago, this strategy is being pursued by our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and we are taking this course by implementing the second phase of the sport reform of the self-evident. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that I have a thrill, a thrill, because the reform that we are currently implementing has been and is a requirement of the sporting family that we have worked very closely for a whole year and we continue to work. And I am moved, because this is what our government is doing, that is our resignation to Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I am extremely happy and proud of what with courage, determination and deep conviction all of us are going on, knowing that tomorrow it begins a new day for sport, a more bright day, but above all with more oxygen. It is in the hands of all of us in this Chamber to be part of this shift in sport. In your vote, ladies and gentlemen, you can do that. And to remember clearly that positive vote in the bill means to hear the voice of amateur sport, it means to hear the voice of protagonists, i.e. athletes. Negative vote in the bill means I'm hiding behind my finger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u131	Until the Step for the next speaker is ready to put in a row now. Mr. Skourletis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, then Mr. Loverdos Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, will take the floor. I read both of the speakers who will follow and are Mrs Bakadima from Mera25 and Mr Ploris from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister, starting his intervention, referred to the Olympic ideal. It is self-evident when we speak at the place where this idea was born. The point is, however, how we serve this ideal. It is very easy to invoke it, to set 'aside', to make good reasons, but how do we actually serve it? I think that with this bill you are not bringing about a new reform, a new wind, as you say. It is essentially a bill of counter-reform that comes to confirm a very old understanding of how you understand the relationship of government's central authority with administrations, federations, unions, institutions in general. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] So you go back to a party state, a controlled state. You're going to do what was heard by all the antipopulation forces inside the room, riding the sports space. That's why they don't look more like you, like amateur sport. That's why you give crumbs, as has already been heard. Because no one can understand the case of sport unless it is first of all young people and, above all, their own needs, they have a direct, lively, experiential relationship with sport. And that's about everybody. So you cannot all mediate them through specific interests, in which you obviously want to build new relationships at this time. Really, Minister, why do you want in the union elections forty-five days to check the electoral lists? What kind of perception is that? If it's not authoritarianism, centralism, effort to control, what else is it? You're talking about a new spirit. But you know what? New spirit, young people in a single way can exist in this context that has been shaped with its own pathogens for years. And it's the simple analogue, what you're fighting for. Absolute democracy. The emancipation of sports clubs. Because this is done through a mere analogue. You tell us and you are presenting us here with an electoral system which, in itself, is a nursery of the most cruel mechanisms of different opinions. We're not talking about party views. But don't tell me that there are no visuals about how everyone perceives the sports space. So do we have to give room to all views? You have to. We have to do this. Do we want transparency in administrations? If we want transparency, only her simple analogue serves. You are showing exactly a identical "allergies", as you did in self-government, which you did not allow it to be implemented. Before the new administrations took over from 1 September it had been precedented by the Minister responsible, Mr Theodorikos, on the occasion of wishing him well for this light health problem, which I read he has - the change in this law, which actually provided for a substantial process at the local councils themselves. If what is now heard is not verified, you are actually going to completely cancel the parliamentary bodies in self-government, something by analogy you have now done with the administrations. And you go all the way to the mayor and the various committees. That is why I am telling you that you have a identically centralized concept of how you understand the functioning of the institutions. So, what does this have to do with the self-inhabited ones? What does this have to do with the autonomy of the various spaces and the sports space in particular? None. No relationship to an elementary concept of self-regulation. Apparently, he has control over the state and has to have control when he gives money. It cannot, through this money, want to impose its own logic, set up a new party state, such as what you are doing now. The letter that saw the light of publicity a few hours ago here in the Chamber by FIFA is a serious warning and you personally assume a great responsibility for what will be done in the sports area. I don't know if you realize that, but that's what you're doing. Anything you try to give on the issue of the unconstitutionality of the regulation on the retroactive power you bring as an amendment today is not convincing, it is not convincing at all. I'll repeat what I told you before. You've heard it from your party too. Some speak of persons who correspond to specific interests. These are completely indifferent to us. We don't care about the war between the factions of interests. We are interested in an effective, manipulated operation of unions, federations and administrations. You know what, Minister? Have you heard of the program of the Ministry of Interior "Philodimos II", which had a specific call? Has many municipalities, in fact, also submitted proposals for the construction of sports facilities by self-government, always in consultation with the General Secretariat of Sports? Do you know how many of these applications are currently pending? To ask your colleague Mr. Theodorikos, who has demolished the most effective program in self-government that has been there over the past twenty years, "PHILDIMOS I" and "PHILDIMOS II", to change his name, not to present the new loan contract. Because she's the same as the one we've done. And, at the moment, hundreds of critical projects in the area of self-government infrastructure are still pending, and one of them is also about sports facilities. So we serve the need of young people for sport. I didn't hear anything about it. Obviously, you won't have been informed. Minister, you know that consultation is a good thing. In fact, you have referred to the fact that so many months of consultation has taken place. However, it is important that we take into account what is said in the consultation. Consultation without catching the pulse of the remarks, he says nothing. It seems that you have not realised that the vast majority of the sport world is opposed - and rightly so - to this reform plan that you have brought us in the form of a law today. I do not want to talk about things very specifically that my SYRIZA colleagues have done sufficiently. I think this has been covered. But I want to tell you this. The debate today is under the heavy shadow of the pandemic. Before, however, I would like to mention something that, unfortunately, has not been shown as much as it should be on the subject of the women's quota. In fact, in November last year, you said that this was an idea of simply proportionalness and quotas. Don't you repeat this in the Minutes, beyond the interview you've given at the time? Idealism is something that as a practice, as a means, has helped to support women's equal participation in a number of institutions throughout Europe today? What kind of stereotypes do you want to play right now? What kind of anachronism is that? You have come hypocritically and you say that there must be a quota, but that there must be no no nominations. Is that right? So that's the measure, which really wants to open space on the female sex? And a woman's not set. It is defined as a sex quota as a whole, because there could be exactly the opposite. It's a common concept. In this regard, we are talking about women. Idealation, then! Idealism is yours and anachronization and darkness and reproduction of old stereotypes. So I was telling you before that the debate is under the heavy shadow of the pandemic. I heard somewhere that you said the stadiums would be filled with fans. Can you believe it? Is this the preparation that you have done similar to that made by your government for schools? This afternoon, there is a protest here from Olemea, which asks you specific questions. In fact, as a government, you broke a record, not a sporting one. What's the record? You had a shocking self-disciplined presence and attitude of Greek society in the first phase of the pandemic, which succeeded in creating a wall of stirring up to its expansion and dispersed it because of your ineffectuality, due to your amateurisms, because of the differences of opinion. And the question today is not only what the CEDEFOP tells you about pragmatism with the masks of the government - did you want to throw them into self-government today, did the CEDEFOP answer you today - but also the questions raised by the teachers' industry: will there be free tests for all teachers and students? This means safe operation of schools. Are we going to try, even now, to make extraordinary recruitments to overturn the proportion of teachers and teachers, which you have poorly - alone in Europe - increased it in the past few months? Are there going to be rooms? Did you move in that direction? Why do cleaners - which I imagine you all realise their necessity - went on Friday last day to take up work? And you told us it was a new recruit. Nine and a half thousand jobs were with the former status of works contracts, nine and a half thousand and now with fixed-term contracts. They weren't new. In most municipalities, however, at the moment, it does not correspond to one cleaner in each school unit, because some of them are also part time. Aren't these serious issues? So here, what are you going to do? Will you ask for an apology for what has happened so far? So you are coming today and you are tabling an amendment, which refers to two issues. I imagine that some time a minister will come to present it. You refer to the hundred thousand new jobs. First of all, it is a wish for hundreds of thousands of new jobs. You want to create some incentives, in the belief that businesses will find themselves in these conditions of recession, which will want to create 100 000 jobs. But let us see what you have done over the past period: two thousand jobs have been lost in the past on your own responsibility. You left it in the weather, in their luck. You closed the eye to a number of businesses and told them, "Start the workers in suspension", "Change their hours". And now, after all, you are going to talk about the motives of hundreds of thousands of jobs, but without telling us whether, until that day, until today, the amendment will be voted on - if it is voted on - there is a commitment on the part of companies to keep the same people with the same employment relationship they have been working for until today. And you generally speak vaguely of the same number. So if an entrepreneur changes the contract and the terms of work with a worker who has been so far, what is more nice to him for hours to go and get one to whom you will also pay his insurance contributions if he can withstand it and if this rapid recession allows him to do so? And you're hypocritically saying you're supporting the job. You know, that's not going through anymore. But, even now, in these conditions of pandemic that raise new questions, which highlight the enormous role of public intervention, you come and move to a well-founded place: in the Pissaridis committee' s steadfast, an old logic, a logic of the previous decades, to the logic of the International Monetary Fund that wants to dismantle labour relations. That is how you realise the conditions for growth: by dismantling labour relations, by reducing the incomes of workers and doing everything in order to unleash the market from the weakest links. That is what you say to us, whenever you speak frankly, or do not say, as the Prime Minister did yesterday in Thessaloniki in this "memorial", "repeated" press conference, where we saw dozens of media literally mocking him with their questions. This is what you know to do: communication, buy it out at 20 million, in opaque terms. But you realize that this road is slippery. As far as the second - and I am ending - part of the amendment to abolish HISPIAN in the smaller islands is concerned, we are pleased that a year later on, on our behalf, you are adopting this self-evident proposal. So welcome this proposal. It's too late, though. It's too late than never. But, Minister, don't try to baptize the meat, fish. And the law you have presented to us is deeply counter-reform and - I would say - backwards and your overall policy is, unfortunately, far below the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u133	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I will make a reference to Greek-Turkish relations, a reference to an example of a public man associated with COVID -19, and I will deal with the principle of the draft law and some of its points. With regard to Greek-Turkish, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey's rescheduling was my own analysis of the Change Movement on Monday that passed us. I have given most of the time of that speech as a parliamentary representative and will not repeat it. However, I would like the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs not to remain involved with the article published by Kathimerini yesterday. The Turkish Foreign Minister and his services, which contributed to the writing of this article, identify as issues of a dialogue between Greece and Turkey, for the first time, the issues of maritime zones in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. This is a very big step forward. The landscape is blurred immediately below, when issues relating to the Occupied Territories are raised, but the removal from the debate of all the issues that Turkey has been suffering us for decades while there are no progress in the words are certainly. The investigative contacts that seem to be going on and welcome - are a used tool for fourteen years, when the contacts process started, I was a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and I remember with details the relevant procedures - they do not promise much, but they do not rule out positive developments. We therefore welcome the resurgence of Turkey. It's a lot of the causes that led to her. I've mentioned them. I don't have time today. And we hope as a Movement of Change - and we will support this development, if there is - the peaceful resolution of our differences. If this attitude of Turkey is a mere justification for folding and continues in the same pattern, of course the Hellenic Republic has no other way than the one it has to go, that is to defend its sovereign rights and in any case its sovereignty. In relation to COVID -19 - I will not make any more references today, we have a road in front of us - I want to confuse Kostas Bakoyannis, Mayor of Athens, who for the second time - was with the opening of Omonoia Square, the second now, with an event - it tells us that the measures are for the citizens, for politicians who are here with a mask, but not for him. And I don't think it's a misunderstanding, but it's arrogant, arrogance of double standards and double standards, but for some, a few. Do not repeat this dreadful example that Mr Bakoyannis has given for the second time. We are now going to the sporting draft law which the House is invited to vote on today. I made several references this morning to the unconstitutionality of Article 6(7) and the answers I received from the isolated majority - which is a majority because the people have so chosen, the other parties in the House have told her to withdraw this provision - as far as the objections I have raised and my arguments are concerned, were on another subject. I mentioned in a clear and unequivocal way the issue of retrospectiveness, a restriction on terms of terms, and I did not receive a reply from any of the majority who spoke. What do I have to add to my speech here? First of all, Mr. Undersecretary, it is an insensitive spectacle with the exploitation of athletes. Every athlete in active or non-active is a citizen. I see Mrs Sakorafa with whom I have been on a joint path for too many years. Who doesn't remember the civilized athlete Sacorafa? I remember her anyway. Was that absurd? No, he was a civilian. All citizens have the same rights. Undoubtedly, no doubt. Saying what is good the law of this kind is, I do not know whether it is good from an aesthetic point of view and how much it will be for children belonging to all of Greece. We all celebrated their victories together. We are not interested in the parties here. We will have difficulty dealing with these children, ladies and gentlemen, and first of all you, Mr Augarian, if what we believe will happen, first of all, from the isolation of Greece from football, from all sports, from what FIFA and UEFA are threatening by their letters today. And there is - if there is - a letter from the International Olympic Committee that we have not seen. What if we're right, everyone but us, where aren't you and everyone? Mrs Bakoyannis has authorized you to the Standing Committee. I repeat, Minister, that story smells like the clearing of accounts. No renewal, no modernization issues, no accounts. Because when I talk about the Constitution - and I don't talk often - I'm too stubborn, I want to tell you that in the morning you slipped into something you didn't know, and I understand you, you're not a legal person. You questioned the possibility of the House to monitor the constitutionality of the laws. No Minister has done that, no one! They wrote you a text that does not honor you for reading. The House firstly has an obligation to monitor the constitutionality of the laws - it is the legislature - and after having checked them and reached them on the basis of the majority principle - which I do not doubt - the second level of control is judicial control. And that will allow me, Minister, to be a constitutional kindergarten, it is not even a primary school. Please let them all be more careful together. Retrospectiveness has a problem. It has not been long since I got a letter signed yesterday by FIFA Deputy Secretary-General and UEFA telling you to accept the comments of the International Olympic Committee and specifically highlight the issue of retroactiveness. This letter concludes with the threat to football - because they are talking about football - that our teams will not be able to participate anywhere in any organization or teams of professional football or our national team. I have lived through this, Mr. Undersecretary, with George Lianis who did the same and folded, with George Floridis who did the same and folded, with George Orphanus who did the same and folded. Mr Kontonis has also had the regulation from now on, if I may remind him. For the future, he made the provision by adjusting his terms. He didn't do like you did. And I think that to involve Greece again, sport in such a process, it is so much a spectacle that we have seen it a thousand times, words that we have heard a thousand times that I cannot understand what your purpose is. I told you how the most fighting feds can deal with it when it's been a while. But now the first difficulty will be to deal with your law by the ILO and by FIFA and UEFA for this time. If you lead to folding - which will be the addition of three words by amendment - I imagine you will not be able to look at the Members today who supported and applaud you, some of them this morning. Because the House is not to be humiliated. The House is to show all our respect for the National Representation, that is to say to the Greek people. Good or badly fair or unfairly the sporting structure has as a "sea cow" of the ILO. You must respect it so that we do not all get involved in the troubles - and I say again - they do not, Mr Augias, have the means to modernise or renew, but rather a political part of it. That's what this is about. Because we all live in this place and we all know faces and things. You're hitting faces and acting for people. Finally, I want to make a reference to the subjects of the letter of vote. If everything goes well - which we all hope will go well - at least at the beginning of next year or at the end of this year, and all goes towards the federal elections, the proposal by Mr Constantopoulos and the Change Movement for the letter vote is very serious. People will not bear the relevant costs when they are outside Athens and are or are not inexhaustible, they will be able to participate in the vote. I think you should accept this proposal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have another one or two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u135	Of course, the bell rings alone until I interrupt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. As far as the issues of the professional rights of university graduates relating to sport are concerned, I would like to say something about this. Young scientists - which Dimitris Konstantopoulos said - with university-level studies, which should not be confused - with the graduates of certain schools, not at this level or those who have done the seminars after a few months of training there without even regulatory framework, I think their rights should be protected against competition that is not of equal quality in terms of the educational process. The amendment. As far as the abolition of the ENPIA is concerned, we are positive, because every measure to alleviate the problems that our islands and especially the small islands have, we are dealing with it positively. However, the fact that this amendment is welcome does not mean, Mr Auganos, that we are solving the problem. We need to see more things. I was saying last Monday that we had the two acts of legislation of the Ministry of Health here that our small islands have many problems with regard to their health centres where they no longer accept the coronary tests. No, they can't do the tests, but they don't accept them, they don't take the samples. Therefore, the amendment is welcome, but there are too many needs still to be found worthy of circumstances and difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u138	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u139	By respecting the Members who have been written and who want to talk, I will be very quick. But I don't want to let anything fall down, Mr. Loverdos. You referred to Olympians, leading athletes of Greeks, who took their place and treat them as objects, as tools, saying that we "worked athletes". It's embarrassing what you're doing. Look in the eye one of all who've come out before the public, and they've taken their place, the Civic Republic. Your colleague on the benches were the same, he had nothing to do with the New Democracy. But he also came out first in the previous bill, and now he speaks clearly about a bill that brings fresh air to Greek sport. Look at it. But no, please, such phrases for people who belong to all of Greece and to any political parties. It's nobody's underhand. They're personal. I read you a list of over fifty - sixty, and there are many more, who have taken a public stand and said something finally. Don't change things and we don't create the wrong images. That was the first. Secondly, Mr Loverdos, I appreciate you and have proved it a lot, and today I said it and I mean it, and you know it very well, and we are personally linked to a relationship of mutual appreciation, but today you have made a mistake. You were dragged on a path that is not allowed to be by an expert parliamentary and constitutionalist of course. Because I did not question the right of the House to monitor the constitutionality of a law that is being discussed and voted on. You entered the process of discussing and questioning a law passed in November. So on second level you went to drag the House to do something that is not allowed on a second level. Because, as you quite rightly said, and here I agree, to a second extent, a law controls it by the Greek courts. That's right. So here you were talking about a provision in November this morning and not a provision which is being voted on today and which you are questioning and you would have every right to do so. And one last of you referred to ILO etc. You know, I had done a lot of careful disapproval and documentation of all the arguments put forward by a number of colleagues on this issue. So listen, something that escapes you probably because you were not at the committee meeting the previous days and you were not obliged to do so. I will read you a paragraph. It is a letter from the IOC which was sent to all the members of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, which somehow reached our hands by the same person who also sent a letter to us days ago and says: "The issue of setting reasonable age limits or even terms is clearly an important element of the basic standards of good governance. As you know, this is something that the ILO has been implementing itself for a long time and which is strongly recommended to members of the Olympic Movement as part of the basic principles of good governance. We therefore have no objection to the principle of introducing such restrictions. What regrets us is that this had to be dealt with in the law and not to be directly and actively implemented by any sporting organisation in its respective statutes, or at least to be discussed and accepted jointly with the government authorities, as established in our previous discussions." This letter was sent on 25 November 2019 to all members of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. Listen to the last nice thing, because here, let me tell you that, you're wrong. The Olympic Committee itself, i.e. the members, the federations, having received this after the November bill had passed a resolution - I have tabled it to the committee - which says, among other things, that "to inform the International Olympic Committee of the intervention attempted in the functioning of sports federations" and "end of plenary members", that is to say, the federations, note, Mr Loverdo, "decide that within six months their sporting federations will proceed to harmonise their statutes in the matter of terms of terms and age limits with the provisions in force in their respective international federations". So we have on November 21, 2019 all federations admit that they have not obeyed the suggestions, no commands, the ILO does not give orders, makes suggestions. The ILO owns the ILO, it has a right. Each federation has a responsibility and is conceived with its respective federation. So the ILO says to the ILO "the statutes of your members must be directly harmonized" with these three things, i.e. a age limit, terms and, of course, asks elsewhere, I did not read it, that the Greek state be rapidly transformed into a legal entity of the ILO by a legal person governed by public law into a legal person governed by private law. We did all three in November. However, this resolution shows that, firstly, not all federations were harmonized when they were committed, and they were asked to be encouraged by the ILO with the statutes of their world federations. And besides, they said that in six months they will be settled. Measure the months from November until today how many months have passed. Near ten. Did he harmonize any federations? None. So what are we talking about? One more mockery for self-regulation that never came. That's why I'm telling you it's not that simple and good to be honest and landed in reality. And I personally had no appetite, but no desire to collide with anyone. But I have no desire to close my eyes in reality. And the other thing you said about FIFA I'll answer you later. I'm waiting for another clue to come to me. We're here to hear everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u141	Mr Loverdos has the floor and we have to close this parable because there is already a large list of Members who have to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, thank you. The first point I would like to raise is the sensitive issue of the athletes who have participated in these television spots, if, in any case, I have seen well. Because I have seen it several times in the last few days, and my colleagues have shown it to me. Every athlete, I repeat, has the rights that all citizens have to speak, that is to say, whether they want political or not, to take part in parties, to have opinions on all issues. That's for granted, no one is questioning it. Speaking and using it by the acting Minister in favour of a law that has the legislative initiative that is at the moment where I mention problematic in terms of international and European sporting property is wrong for the Minister and not for the athletes. I respect one by one, whatever party they believe, in whatever party they join, whatever party they want to be or whatever. It's everyone's right. It is another reason that the agenda is too limited and that it ends up with a law which, if all the opposition is right, you will find it in front of you and will therefore find it before them, and these people have no reason to suffer such suffering. Why do you insist on talking about another issue than what I am addressing? Again, you read about age, age limit, with terms. For the retrospectiveness that all the opposition points to you, the International Olympic Committee and the federations are not speaking. But that's the point, retrospectiveness. You're not commenting on her. The unconstitutional case focuses on it. Not even in the morning, Mr. Economou mentioned it either. I've done five interventions with her. I insist on retrospectiveness and you answer for others. But the question of constitutionality is that. Now one last. Mr President, the Minister is constantly saying that this provision is already in place except for a reference at the end and is repeated for reasons relating to good legislation, as the government means it. I'm not questioning that. I can't question what time it is now. What am I saying, but you don't want to accept it? That when you repeat a law arrangement, existing provision resurrects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u143	It obliges us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u144	You're forced by government service. It's your thing. It revives the parliament's right to control it. And it controls her as if she were filed for the first time. It's elementary. If there is an unconstitutionality, unregulated court and reintroduced at the Government's initiative, will the House not control it? While he sees the problem, he won't mention it? Who's telling you this, Mr. Ausgeakis? I'm not underestimating your partners. Obviously, I don't underestimate them, as I don't underestimate anyone, but that's why you don't want to accept it, while it's elementary and you're referring to November. The provision is present, it is in the present draft law. It has the flaws and problems that we have mentioned and emphasized to you a thousand times. And this document comes from FIFA and UEFA, which should lead you to the thought of making a change today, adding the words to paragraph 6 "that this will apply from now on and for the future". If you don't, you'll have to do it some other time. I repeat and conclude with these positions, I do not want to be in the position of Members of the New Democracy who will be invited to vote on your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u146	Minister, don't go on with this ping-pong anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u147	I am done, Mr President, with my intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u149	Just one word, please warmly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u150	I am obliged, Mr President, to say once again to Mr Loverdos that we do not understand well, all right, we have nothing to do with the legislative procedure, but the Scientific Committee of Parliament does not know?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u151	Retrospectiveness didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u152	Aah! Take care of yourself, because you're saying other things...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u153	He didn't say. After you read it in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u154	Allow me. You are constantly talking about a provision which we refer to, as many others have mentioned, to supplement the draft law, as we do. So if there were such a matter, would the Scientific Committee of the Parliament not have to point out any unconstitutionality? So I'm telling you, it would. However, because the Scientific Committee is aware of this, and I read it to you - here is the report, if you have not received it - it does not say anything at all as compared to the previous report by the Scientific Committee in November, which was then indeed under discussion and was indeed voted on at that time. Don't try to fool people. This provision, which you are discussing, has been passed in November, has been adopted by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. The report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament today is quite clear and does not raise any question of questioning. And because you are talking about retrospectiveness, the provision says clearly - and we have said so in committee, but I repeat that you are not and are not obliged to know everything, but your colleague could inform you at least - of immediate force up to two terms and of course until the year when the archaeology begins. I mean, she and the last one. Anyone who has two consecutive terms in administrative posts in the federations will only have the right to participate next. One gap and the next, if there's no age limit issue. On the subject of athletes, I asked otherwise, to reverse it: If dozens of athletes had come out and said the worst about our bill, would we not take them into consideration? Now that they're saying a lot of good words, dozens of athletes, of all sports, of different ages, don't we have to listen to them? I mean, yours and ours. Oh, no, Mr. Loverdo, I'm so sorry! Athletes took the courage, went out and reported things. They said things by their name, they spoke, they opened mouths. They talked positively about the bill and you say 'don't listen to them, it's forbidden'. Why don't we listen to them? They're not Greek citizens? They don't have a crisis? Didn't they raise the Greek flag high? Didn't they make us proud? No matter where they come, we don't. That's why we're proud. We respect them either they say positive or they say negative. We are pleased, however, that the majority of them have a positive say in public and clearly about the draft law we are debating today. Thank you very much and I apologise to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u155	So we continue with the list of colleagues. We are in number five of the thirty-five Members who have joined to speak and are still to speak four parliamentary representatives. It is a good request to proceed from now on with the time. I invite Mrs. Fotini Bakakada from Mera25 to take the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wished to speak today to defend two amendments which I have tabled on behalf of the Merra25. The first concerns vetoing and the second concerns football. I'll start with the first one. The amendment we tabled on volleyball essentially aims to enable the Committee on Professional Sport to consider outstanding cases of economic disputes and not just those that have finalised. At the same time, a next provision includes the provision for a second translation period each January for amateur sports clubs. In addition, we are asking for the order of examination of the licensing files to be changed so that the licensing dossiers can be examined by the EAA from the least loaded sport, such as volleyball, and that it should not be made to football in accordance with their racing obligations, as you said, Minister, to a written question I had asked. We also call on the agreements described in the first indent of Article 87 of Law 2725/1999 to include those relating to either modalities for the gradual repayment of debts of the CDE or the CDE to their athletes either equally constituted by the parties, federations and professional associations, arbitration bodies or committees for the control of compliance of the parties with the above agreements, with the findings of the relevant bodies or committees being binding on the authorisation of CDEs or the CDEs by the CEPOL and the time of adoption of the relevant decisions. We believe that the adoption of this amendment will strengthen both amateur and professional volleyball and support its athletes, and that is why, Minister, I ask you to accept it. Let us now move on to the second, which concerns the restructuring of the second category of football. Minister, here we were, in this Chamber a few days ago, discussing a topical question on the same subject and you accepted that the Basqueside restructuring was disastrous for football. You did indeed, as a necessary condition to start the debate on the matter, the adoption of a decision by the arbitration tribunal, where the three groups had recourseed, a decision adopted last week. As you said at the time, after the decision was adopted, you would start a broad and democratic dialogue in order to find the best solution. But, Minister, the time limits before the opening of the championship are tightened up and the time has really come to find a solution to the problem. Before I refer to this amendment, I would like to say that the objective and permanent position of Mera25 is that a championship of competitive and entrepreneurial health should be created, setting the foundations for professional football in our country to be able to attract patient entrepreneurs - investors who are interested in providing economic benefits from the same activity rather than using the past of each group and fans of historical teams to indirectly serve other business activities. At the same time, we all know that the majority of the teams of Super League 2 and Football League have been in favour of restructuring and are waiting today to prove that we have the political will to change the destructive Kingdom law that created Super League 2 in view of the fact that it can be financed by the state through the ERT and to make a restructuring beneficial to sport and not for those who are involved in it, with self-sufficient aims at the back of their minds. It is commonly accepted by Super League 2, Football League and the EEA that the request for the creation of a unified second national two groups, north and south is made. Like the groups themselves, they say, this unification will greatly reduce the non- racing costs of the groups, as two groups will form with geographical criteria. Conditions will be laid down for the employment of a greater number of local professional footballers, making the new expanded second professional category as the crucial infestation of new footballers who will serve the national teams in the future, as well as the Super League teams. The individual articles in the amendment regulate, in addition to restructuring, issues such as the minimum share capital of the OIPs, where for A1 it is not allowed to be less than EUR 500,000, while for the second category it is not allowed to be less than EUR 80,000, but the amounts can be regulated by CIRRs. But we are trying to propose a way of regulating television rights as well. Let us now look at another aspect of rights. This year, with the pandemic still present, the most likely is to start the championship without viewers, notwithstanding what we hear about it. Therefore, for many ADRs the only source of income will be rights. It is reasonable and we all understand that maintaining three categories with such reduced rights will make all three categories unsustainable. That is why we need to take care of it in good time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Super League 2 and Football League were not completed this year because of the pandemic. A pandemic which is a framework of exceptional circumstances, opening up the way for legislative initiative to remove the injustice of the Basleside restructuring, giving a fair solution because of the failure to complete the championships and finally create a representative category, whose viability will guarantee a competitive championship. Minister, I'm closing with this. Considering that we are all aware of the need for proper restructuring and that the fight against the interests of those who are engaging in football in our country, working out historical teams and their fans and using clearly or clearly lower categories to their benefit is a common fight for all of us, I urge you to accept this amendment, but also for all colleagues in all the groups to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. As far as I can see, there are two deletions on the speaker list. It's Mr. Callianos and Mr. Cretan. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Plearis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by a petition made by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, for the Mayor of Athens, Kostas Bakoyannis, concerning the Technopolis, and because we need to respond so that there are no mistaken impressions. The Mayor of Athens has been able throughout the summer to perform thirty-five concerts, where artists and people of culture have found shelter. While then the completeness could be 75%, he did it all with 44% and full compliance with the measures, as with the specific photo you see. They were only seated, with a mask at the entrance and exit, sitting at the distances as the rules laid down, and now, of course, with the change and tightening of the measures, and the seated will have a mask. But what's going on? They show a picture of the mayor, who fully keeps the measures that were in place at the time, and they go to compare them to the measures that now apply and have changed. I mean, we have two different things to compare. Congratulations to the mayor that Athens managed to have a cultural presence in the most difficult summer that we faced! Minister, we've heard the incredible here. The Communist Party of Greece said that it was not a matter of state unions at the start of the debate. I mean, for the left, it's all about state issues, but it's not about state unions. And what important, how touching! Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must see things in their entirety. They come out of athletes - and the Minister has uploaded them - athletes who were flags and standards that we have been tearing from these athletes, from the Tower Dimas, Kaklamanakis, and we see other Olympic athletes saying what was going on in the federations, when these people were giving the fight and that they were called "we're finishing whoever we want". Names come out and report them. These same people come in and say that precisely because they are given greater presence to the athlete and their greater participation is a bill in the right direction, that it is a reform bill, that there will finally be in federations and vote for clubs of sportsmen, who are not only seals, and that we will be able to create in a smooth, nice and way that will not create confederations and factions within federations and renewal and reinforcement. So this is a bill, which, if anyone sees the bad texts in Greek sport, would like to vote on it. A little - we have to say things that hurt us all, whatever it is. I'm not going to reason with who's to blame or who's not to blame, who's to blame or who's to blame. It is honourable that the end of the Football Cup is finally being held at the beginning of the new season with previous rosters - I had the question, Minister, what if one of the two teams had changed its whole roster - and said that this thing is not happening? Is it possible in basketball, basketball, to have two top teams in Euroleague, one of the most powerful European shirts, and one of the two right now for reasons not sports fight in A2 and the federation cannot give a solution? How about if you hear that Real or Barcelona in Spain, one of the two teams is in A2 for the racing reasons and the federation is watching it and can't solve it? All these issues, simple, to go to the most complex at times, how can we possibly work fans, teams, but these issues of simple operation not be solved? Should it not, at last, be possible to get a process like this so that, with transparency, elections can be held in federations, that athletes really feel that they have a power of federation and the clubs and teams rather than the opposite, that people in fact have their personal ambitions through these federations and work on all those who are involved and actually promote the one they want or do not promote the other? It is, therefore, a bill that moves in the direction that every athlete, every healthy fan, wants to see a little more slowly on all these issues. I now come to the amendment tabled. Here, ladies and gentlemen, because things often have the ideological face, we see the difference, how centre-right sees and how the centre-left sees the work. We believe that people who have no work are unemployed are our afflicted fellow citizens, who should normally go out into the production machine, feel active. Coming up and what do we do? We are not subsidising unemployment, we are subsidising work. You allow these people to enter the production process, give them the opportunity they demand and the long-term unemployed in particular have a semester to present the possibilities they have, to be judged by the employer. We are also coming, helping with the employer's insurance contributions, the businesses now affected and trying to survive in the crisis, we are also helping the worker, we keep jobs with a proper measure, which he says? It tells you that it must be the same number of jobs when you go to the point and in that way we give a breath, because we guarantee a hundred thousand jobs, subsidized to the part of insurance contributions in the hardest winter that the country will spend until the good of the year there is the vaccine, so that we can get into another process, but at the same time we give these people a chance to work again. This measure should have been voted on by everyone, approved by all groups, and come and say that we want such measures, which actually take man, put him in the production process and help him to show his potential. At the same time, it is very right and the second part, which has something to do with ENPIA on the islands. Minister, I think you will receive too many fires, because you have had to do with this bill that you have now brought, and you know it yourself that you will annoy certain guilds that have been in existence for a long time. Whether they did them well or badly is the result that we see daily. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided that these logics that will actually operate in terms of ownership over athletes and federations will not allow them. The reason for this is - as I have seen very well in the video by Mr Mavrota - to swim in clean waters now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Let me call the next speaker, Mr. Dimitris Kouvela, from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Couvela, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have a particular sensitivity to sport. As a lawyer and former professional athlete, I'm watching the sports legislation closely. In fact, I have had the honour of working with one of the patriarchs of the Athletic Law, my colleague, Mr Pantellis Dedes. However, as a mere fan who really believes in the sporting ideal and the values promoted by sport and finally as a father of three children I join the question which is spontaneously expressed by thousands of our fellow citizens, Minister: Can I really go to the court with my children and watch a leading football match fearlessly, without danger? This is for me the key question, which is the main problem to which the leadership of the Ministry of Sport must be answered. We should be able to give a positive response to the citizens so that every great sporting event is a celebration and finally an advertising event for our country abroad. Our Constitution protects sport and even gives the state responsibility for it. Nevertheless, in Greece, sport, although an integral part of culture, remains a disgrace, instead of being its beloved child, while throughout Europe, at least advanced Europe, sport produces both sight and wealth. Unfortunately, in some very key areas, however, it still recurs, and it should be a period of exceptional maturity, especially after the great national and collective successes we have achieved in football, basketball and so many other sports, as well as the individual Olympic and global successes of Greek athletes. That is why it is our duty as government to deal with the disapproval of sport and sport in the eyes of healthy fans. In this direction, therefore, this draft law is in progress. It is indeed incited and comes to put order in time - to - time pathogens and to carry out years of demands from the sporting family. I shall refer to four specific issues, to which it does give solutions. The first question is that following last November's previous law on the restriction of terms and age limit for the governing boards of sports federations, it puts new and more stringent impediments to participation in a sporting body, as well as a key change in the antiquities of sports clubs and federations. These will add extra prestige and credibility to these entities. The second question is: As regards sport for disabled people, this draft law changes in their benefit the correlations with federations. Interventions that were embraced by the Paralympic Movement. The issues of paralympic sport must be seen with their sensitivity. I would also like to dwell on what the bodies have said, namely that the attendants of the athletes with disabilities, who remind themselves of being trained with them, are going up to the bottom of the successes with them, must be treated equally. We must also ensure that these rights are guaranteed for them. They deserve congratulations to the leadership of the Ministry of Sports, which incorporates this provision in this bill. Thirdly, an extremely important issue: there are provisions that enhance transparency in amateur sport by establishing the club register and special sporting recognition. So we put an end to the unions - seals. I am sure, Minister, that you have already referred to the major grant to amateur sports clubs, which are also the blood donor to sport in our country, that you will exhaust all other margins that exist to support amateur clubs, especially after the serious, heavy financial consequences they have suffered because of pandemic. Fourthly, it is the creation of the national platform of the Macolin Convention. I remind you that he had been forgotten for years in a D.C. drawer. The law of last November now applies and is implemented with the immediate aim of addressing the phenomenon of corruption and manipulation of matches in the field of sport. In conclusion, I should like to address two points, Minister, which I think will receive your attention. In the first, you have already made the relevant announcement. It is about the issue of coaches in various sports. You know that the holders of physics and sport schools, who have been qualified as football, based on their title after the relevant approval by the General Secretariat of Sports, are holders and licensed to practice a football coach I class professional. Nevertheless, for their recruitment to football clubs, amateurs or professionals, the Greek Football Federation - the NGO - illegally, as they themselves say, has also placed as an additional condition the presentation of a coach's identity, which is granted by the NGO itself after seminars that it does, which are quite high costs for participants. I think that the Greek legislation is based on their right to practice the coach's profession only by the certification of the General Secretariat, of course, since they hold that degree with the relevant qualifications. I am addressing the practical questions that I have tabled to the Ministry of Culture and to a relevant decision by the Citizens' Co-rapporteur. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second theme relates to the Association of Football Clubs of Macedonia, and in particular to players who won the first place in the Pan-Hellenic Championship for Selection of National Teams organised by the National Team. These children should have been included in the list of distinguished athletes of the General Secretariat of Sports and hence benefiting from their admission to university schools related to sport, as expressly provided for in the provisions of sport laws. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The answer they had so far is that it was not possible to register them, because some of the rival teams of other football associations had not received the relevant sporting recognition. I appreciate, Minister, that things will evolve in this way with the provisions and provisions of the law that will be resolved in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u161	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u162	That's what they need not to do. So a fair solution should be given, because these children have worked hard and hard to deal with. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to move from theory to practice. We know very well that laws are passed, but measures are never applied to the extent that they should, as many so far feared of political costs. Let us not forget that the multitude of host armies that embrace violence, provoke it and feed from it inside and outside the stadiums are also voters. On the other hand, we believe that athletes should fight on the stadiums and tracks on equal terms and win the best. So the space of sport should also be straightened out. It's something we're all concerned with. I would close with the common but also unpleasant at the same time that the area of football, the most popular sport in the world and in Greece, is inclined here. I would remind you of the verdict of the highly-treated philosopher and Nobel of Literature Albert Camus, who typically said: "What I learned about morality and obligations I owe soccer." A lot of people say we have the football we deserve. I wouldn't generalize talking about sport. I think the time has come for them to change their minds. I therefore call on you to take the first step in voting for this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u163	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Yannis Loverdos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin with an appeal to you, the Bureau of Parliament. I fully understand that the ministers, the political leaders, the parliamentary representatives must have more opportunity to speak and intervene in the parliamentary work and in the parliamentary procedure, but it is only four minutes and so far has spoken seven Members and that is not the exception. It's the rule, and it happens in all the bills. In this way, I very much fear that the role of the Member is further diminishing at a time when some forget that our system is a parliamentary system. The parliament controls both the government and everyone, and there should be greater respect for the elected representatives of the Greek nation. I've always said that, and now I'm saying it. I'm coming over to the bill. I have listened with great interest to Mr. Andreas Loverdou, my co-rapporteur and representative of the Change Movement. He is a very serious legal and very serious politician, whom I personally appreciate, and that is why I have listened very carefully. I assume that if what Mr Aygeakis actually said is happening, and if the law brought by the court is unconstitutional, or if there are problems with the International Olympic Committee or FIFA, then we will very clearly accept a retreat. It will be a bad thing to do this, but I am sure that Mr Aygeakis and his Ministry's leadership will have taken action, so that this bill will not be declared unconstitutional, that is to say, the provisions which are laid down and that there will not be any problems with the international federations, such as the ILO and FIFA in particular. I'm not a lawman, and I don't know the law as well as Mr. Loverdes. I'm a journalist and I see things politically. All my life, I've seen them politically. We can't hide behind our finger. The situation in the field not only of football, my dear friend Dimitris Kouvelas said, but in the whole sport in Greece, is very serious, not now, but for decades whole. Sports is for the young children. Sport is to work out, to get rid of, to create new children. Eventually in Greece, it has become an instrument of some epidemics, which are taking advantage of the players' positions - the factor in sport has become a negative concept - because we know the manners that are being done, the horrific manipulations and unacceptable too often, not to say that there are cases that even mafia methods have been recruited for election in administrative posts. I listened with great interest to the view of the Opposition on self-government of federations and sports clubs. I couldn't agree more. Self-defence, but don't hide behind our finger. When all of them rush in the Greek state with a spread of hand, give me too, barbas, and "the more you give me", they cannot have the requirement to listen "take the money, whatever money you want and do what you like" and be closed circuits of people who are staying ten, twenty and thirty more years in the same place thanks to these drones I referred to earlier. It's hypocritical, and not just. It is also corruption because, as Lord Ashton quite rightly says, "power is corrupting and absolute power is completely corrupting". If anyone has been in the same position for many years, then he will become corrupt. That applies above all to politicians. If, for example, Leuteris Agygeakis lived in the same position for thirty years, he would be corrupted, how would we do so?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u165	That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u166	It's not gonna happen, I know. All who acquire great power end up corrupt. It's the nature of the man. That is why in the republics we are setting rules to prevent this corruption. That's what I'm going to do now. That's what I'm talking about. Does it make it amazing? I don't know. I'm not saying it's the perfect bill. I'm not saying it makes things great. He's taking a few steps in the right direction. That's my assessment. Is it going to pay off in practice? I don't know that either, because to be honest, I've seen very nice laws go through the House, but in practice they're being undermined, not being implemented, behind the scenes. There are those too. But we as a parliament have an obligation to control sports federations. We have a duty, as the Constitution of Greece stipulates, but also the common sense, since we are financing these federations with the money of the Greek people, to know where this money is going and not to become an instrument in the hands of a number of experts who are often miserable to illegal, manage and hold this position for decades. This has to change and this will change. This is the intention not only of the current government and the present majority. It should be a common place of all the Parliament and all the Greeks. It is not possible for the Greek people to give their money and not to know where they are going and how they are being used, nor is it possible to undermine above all the very nature of sport that is healthy competition, which is silent, which is fun, which is health. I am sorry, and I say this because I see that in the field of sport there are those other than federations. I read Mr Buddouris's letter, for which I have had great respect as Olympians, but it has caused me to listen to disputes and - let me be allowed to express - 'cuttings' that do not match the Olympics that we have and we must have them high. I respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure. My time is running out. I do not have a manuscript in front of me, as is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, which we all have to respect. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u167	Please prepare the Step and come the next speaker, Mrs. Silina Skondra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, what about the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u169	Mrs. Scottra has changed with Mr. Calliano. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group has given me the change. Then it's you, Mrs. Vetta. It doesn't change anything. For everything, the parliamentary groups are aware. The Group of the European People's Party informed me that Mr Callianos was deleted and Mrs Skondra entered. Mr. Loverdo, I have to tell you that time is not specified. Apart from the Rules of Procedure, there is a regular and practical year-old. The Heads of State or Government are not interrupted and there is tolerance from all the members of the Bureau to the parliamentary representatives, who are the voices of the parties. I am not saying that he is not every Member of Parliament, but the parliamentary representative is instead of his leader. Today, because there is this delay, I must tell you that a great deal of time has been consumed on the subject of the debate on unconstitutionalism, where the Rules apply. From there on, we are trying, and in particular in this parliamentary term, to close the list of Members of Parliament, without meaning that you are not right about certain things. Here you go, Mrs. Skondra. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis' statement was to improve the framework for sport in our country. And this intention of reform came not because there was nothing better to do, but the recorded need for a bold reform to get into new bases and unleash the blurred landscape in the field of sport. To be clearer, is there even one in the Chamber that goes beyond the timeless values of sport? Does anyone claim that the opacity, plausibility and factorism must continue to prevail? Is anyone ignoring the chronic diseases of sport in our country and how different interests in the past have been faced with any initiative to reform and reorganise them? And I'm not just talking about the king of sports, football. I am referring to almost all sports, where pathogens and lags were and still exist. Ladies and gentlemen, our firm 'believe' in the New Democracy is the fight to be always present, to dominate all types of sport and to ensure both institutional and practical of all those involved. Leuteris Agygeakis today through his institutional role as Minister of Sports dares to do what many found, and they said it, but they stayed in the words. The words, however, justified the sad phenomenon in the country that gave birth to the Olympic ideal, sport suffering from malfunctions, passions and attitudes that blacken the image of sport and the country. And it is not my view, it is discussed by the Greek society and it is called the names of Olympians who have glorified our country, but have nevertheless risen insurmountable obstacles to the difficult path of their global domination. So the Minister spoke of these, and we should congratulate him. With your initiatives, Minister, the transparency and the household of the sports space, you will be redeploying and renewing Greek sport and you will give it new breath. You started last November in the resolution of No4639/2019 concerning, among other things, the restriction of terms and age limits on the boards of the sports federations. You are now passing through the bill under way in the renewal of the administrations of sports organisations and ensuring fair procedures in the antiquities of sports clubs, associations and federations. Enter regulations on sport for disabled people and modify provisions on amateur and professional sport. You create the national platform to combat the manipulation of sports games and enter amendments to the statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. With the completion of the registers of associations of coaches and sports facilities, the clear picture of the actual data will be completed and illustrated. Are these not all, ladies and gentlemen, smaller or larger parts of the important mosaic called Greek sport? Although opposition has previously declared positive the necessary reforms, it is now reacting. It's probably driven by an acquired anti-military momentum. There are also some institutional bodies who, for their own always purposes, do not like to see the Minister and the government stir up ponds, which have been dominated for many decades. We would point out in all directions that, of course, we want the greatest possible consensus. That is why all the views were heard and better regulations were incorporated into the draft law, which emerged both from public consultation and from the work of the committee. But let us be clear: the voices of unjustified reaction and the urges for stagnation and opacity are not taken into account. For the regulations introduced, we aim for a comprehensive improvement. We honour the multiannual contribution of the outgoing administrations of sports organisations, which are called upon to transform their knowledge and experience into the new generation. We ensure the impreciseness of antiquities, substantially promoting transparency in administrations' promotion procedures. We are simplifying the process of obtaining athletic recognition of associations. We are facing the chronic problem of losing the rewards of distinguished athletes because of not participating in the required number of clubs with special athletic recognition. We solve problems that have been a problem for years in the field of paralympic sport, ensuring the fairest representation in the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee, of individual disabled persons. We are modernising the status of coaches by strengthening transparency and the resolution of a professional sector that is one of the most sensitive to sport. Improve doping controls on athletes. We set up issues around the license for sports facilities. We are implementing the establishment of the national platform for collecting information, against manipulation of sports games, since unfortunately Greek sport has been facing such phenomena for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, the scope of the draft law regulates all those gaps and problems of the past that led to Greek sport in a variety of deadlocks of opacity, dispersion of resources and shortcomings. The moment has come for those changes that will allow Greek sport to modernise and return page. This was and remains our basic obligation in the New Democracy. Colleagues of counter-population, you should join us so that together we can highlight the healthy part of sport, become a pit for ever more of our fellow citizens, especially young children. We must open them up the way that many of them have led them to the Olympic medals. Whether with you, however, or without you, we continue consistently and unequivocally the reforms that will bring Greek sport to the place it deserves worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too. I will call on the next colleague, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, from SYRIZA for seven minutes, and immediately after the speech, the Deputy Minister of Finance will be given to place her under a general number of 465 and a special 12 amendment. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is absolutely loyal and consistent in the government's political line on all the issues it has to deal with. The great picture is this: at the level of substance and of interventions there is concern that only the interests and friends of the government, by direct awards, photographic amendments and provisions of the public are served. Where you are called upon to do something that is socially useful, the result is, in principle, disappointing. Last example, the mask fiasco, which Greek taxpayers gave more than 6 million euros to distribute with great delay the masks, which gave material for abundant laughter on social media, while in addition, by shifting responsibility from one Ministry to another, you show political cowardice. At the level of communication, there is a constant specialization, distortion, bilingualism, work, even on the most important issues of a national nature. The most characteristic example is the statement by Mr Zaev, who said that Mr Mitsotakis is the best ambassador to his country abroad, a statement that should very much concern our fellow citizens, who well had concerns about the content of the Prespecies Agreement and see today that the New Democracy, which until yesterday was in the forefront of and favoring the protests, turns 180 degrees. Let me refer in particular to today's bill to specialize in my opinion. At the level of substance, where the bodies called, have been the largest legislative intervention ever, an effort that does not fit into a democratic state and will cause many problems in sports society. In fact, Mr Minister, you reacted strongly to this finding by falsifying what has been said. However, the reality remains. If we have an example of authoritarianism and superiority in Greek sport, it is what you are giving us today, that is, the limitation of a elite body, the election of candidate presidents with probably fewer votes than the last elected, the list of selectors approved by the Ministry, the increased crossroads, the age and the racial restrictions, retrospectiveness in the births. Even your own MPs have come to protest about these methods, which is why you threw the ball on the platform to use a sporting term. And what do you call these methods to come to the level of communication? You refer to opening up, democratization, liberalisation. I would remind the people who are listening to us that today's bill replaces the respective SYRIZA bill, 4603/2019, which provided for a simple analogue, reduced crusade, the possibility of submitting different lists, care for representation by both sexes. That's real democracy. This is the real opening in sports society. In order to stay only in the latter, you constantly argue that there is a difficulty in finding suitable and worthy women who, with proper legislative support, will come forward and run sports organisations. And so did the Prime Minister, everyone remembers. In the most populous government of all time there were no positions for women, because it was difficult to find interested parties, as he had informed us. This is the democracy you publish, women should only be suitable for candidates, decorative elements and alibi progressiveity. There are many problematic points in the bill and I will refer to just a few of them. I begin with the distinction introduced between members of amateur clubs and sports companies. In particular, when there is a judgment for a felony for the former, a final decision is required to dismiss the administrative office, i.e. an appeal, and for the shareholders of the AU. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on this matter. You also referred to the register. First of all, let me remind everyone of what I said yesterday in committee that the SYRIZA Government had completed the planning and even provided funds for the first time in the history of the General Secretariat of Sports by means of a programme agreement with the information society and the opening of the relevant competition. The question I asked you, Minister, remains unanswered. Nor did you reply to the cyber-attack at the General Secretariat on 27-11-2019. You said you answered all the questions. Unfortunately, you have not answered us about the measures to support the ninety-four degrees of Physical Education on the 27-32020 working in the "Slimming" programme established by SYRIZA with great success for students in third and fourth grades. Those are just the questions I was accelerating. You have also not answered many others in the House who are waiting for your reply, even now. Finally, nothing has been mentioned by you about the financial support of the federations. In a pro-lympic year with sport being thrown from the pandemic and the health protocols that apply to us you said that grants remain at last year's level. We have heard nothing so far about the exceptional grant of sports, which has already begun their activities. I would remind you that the games will take place without spectators, so without receipts from tickets, advertising, sponsorships, and possibly with reduced television rights when compliance with the protocols generates extra expenses for groups. We didn't hear anything about them, because you obviously don't care. Your priorities are other, and they're urgent. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, unfortunately the space of sport will live through a truly authoritarian and unconstitutional framework. The work and beauty of your Members do not even convince your workmen, who have also expressed strong disagreements. I am sure that very soon they will not convince Greek citizens either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besyropoulos, for the amendment with a general number of 465 and a special 12. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that the government has put to the vote is the adoption of rational rules across the globe of Greek sport. As a society and as a country we need to adopt the right speech in all the manifestations of political, economic and social activity. In particular, at this juncture where the great risk is to deal effectively with the negative effects of the pandemic, but also the attacks on our national sovereign rights. This is the government's and Prime Minister's project and has been reflected in the measures to support the real economy, businesses, professionals, the unemployed, workers and pensioners. I have asked for the floor to refer to the amendment tabled in this bill with a general number of 465 and a special number 12, which concerns the discharge of the inhabitants of the twenty-eight outermost islands, which have their main residence on these islands. These are islands with a population of less than one thousand inhabitants in the Regional Units: Ikaria, Limnos, Samos, Chios, Kalymnos, Karpathos, Rhodes and Kos, as well as in the Municipality of Gaydou of the Regional Unit of Chania and in the Municipality of Central Corfu and Diapondian Islands of the Regional Unit of Corfu. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a measure of social sensitivity, its dynamics are not exhausted in the social field. It's a measure with a national dimension. The aim is to contain the population of these islands and to strengthen life and economic activity on these islands. This measure may also lead to an increase in the population of these islands, since it also works as an incentive. It concerns those who have their main residence on these islands, those who actually live on them. Contrary to what has happened in the past, unreasonable announcements and the tabling of unreasonable amendments, legal basis and scope, the New Democracy Government comes and clearly establishes that the exemption from HNVY concerns property situated on these small remote islands and beneficiaries of the exemption is the residents who actually live there and who have as their main residence real estate situated on these islands. Because, as I have said before, the essence and the core of this regulation is to strengthen life and economic activity on these islands. I think it should have the support of all the political forces in the Greek Parliament. And it will certainly not be a fragmentary measure, since the government will go to other interventions to strengthen life, economic and social activity on these islands. It would be a positive signal for the inhabitants of these islands to see the whole of the Greek MPs and the political parties represented in Parliament support this amendment unanimously. Some are used to saying that these islands are far from Greece, but they forget that these islands are Greece itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u175	And we thank the Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, has asked for the floor for a short speech. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I imagine you will be aware that a proposal from the SYRIZA on 29-7-2019 was tabled on behalf of the SYRIZA in relation to exactly a similar content to yours, namely how there will be no charge on the smaller islands. The question is this because I have heard you talk about the feasibility of this amendment, so that permanent residents, etc. can be increased. Is it only the small islands mentioned in the amendment? Aren't the small islands in the Cyclades? Why do you exclude them? Isn't that a matter over there? I would therefore like an answer on that. I imagine that even this fragmentary and small positive move - anything that is positive - is welcome, we have said it before - should be part of a more comprehensive framework of support measures. However, what you have done over the past period is to falsely say that you have a "kowl" of twenty-four billion to strengthen work and business. Also, based on a recent press release from your Ministry, you reported in the morning the sum of 4.6 billion and in the afternoon the sum of 6.4 billion. So who are you kidding? Because, of course, you also sum up the transfer of tax obligations, but also various possibilities for a new loan. But it's completely different. So when we talk about aid, we are talking about budgetary expenditure. And in that respect, it is not 24 billion, but it is one of the two numbers I mentioned before. Minister, the facts themselves are false. A turnover of 20 billion has been lost in the last four months. In the second quarter of this year the turnover was 58 billion 987 million and last year the relevant period was about 78 billion minus 25% of the business turnover. You should decide on the so-called fuels, which you sometimes invoke, to give when machines work. Otherwise, when business is deceived, when business closes, when machines are switched off, whether there is fuel or no fuel, and so is the same. I would therefore say that even now, although you have left time unexploited and the time of the recession is far greater than the one anticipated by various people, even now, strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, support the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u178	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr Colleague, you have actually tabled an amendment on 28-6-2020 to exempt HNVIA from the permanent inhabitants of the islands of less than a thousand inhabitants. I told you before in my position that this amendment had no basis, legal basis and scope. It was a vague amendment. At the heart of our policy is tax reduction. We did it a year earlier than the New Democracy programme before we became a government. We have come a year earlier, last year, and we have applied a reduction in the EMS by 22%. For the first time last year, the ENPI had decreased and continued by 22% this year, with the small real estate of 30% reduced by the Government of New Democracy and with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. You have come to the government in 2015 with the flag to abolish HPAI, to abolish this unfair tax, as you said then and instead of abolishing it, you have downloaded the tax-free tax limit from 300,000 to 250,000 and you have more than tripled the tax rates. And you're coming today to move our finger? We have reduced the ENPIA, exempted the small remote islands from HNPI and, as I said before, at the core of our policy is tax reduction. So it's coming up all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which introduces changes in the field of sport, in the majority of them with a negative sign and a problematic one. Before, however, we are talking about them, we need to talk about something that is very important and does not introduce this bill at all. It makes no talk about it, and it is something both amateur and professional sport need immediately to breathe. And what's that? Significant financial support, ladies and gentlemen. With only money in channels, with only money in "School Age" seminars, with only money in equipment, to sell instant bubbles for silk ribbons at your far-right audience, the country does not go forward. You know, sport, like culture, is seriously suffering because of the crisis, because of the quarantine, because there are no tickets and advertising, but also because of the economic hardship of the world. Sports and culture require serious and systematic support. Now let's go to what's in the bill. According to your dear logic, you also come to sport to house this place, as you are. But in what way? What's the housekeeping? But bringing everything to your party measures. You do not of course want the space regulated, you want to regulate it. You do not want it to be checked by authorities or by representative bodies. You want to check him out. You don't care to be refined by pathogens that he may have. You just want to install your own. Where has your liberalism gone, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? And that liberalism of yours? We suddenly heard a majority colleague telling us that the state must control it. You surprised us. Still, your hypocrisy is impressive. Your so-called liberalism is limited, not to regulating, but to direct. Not to regulate, but to define, on the basis of your own party unpaid pre-election stamps, as was the reduction of HNVIA in the very large assets above 1 million. This explains why, in your opinion, the enhanced analogue should be the system followed by the elections of clubs and unions, making the minority powerless completely and effectively discouraged anyone who wants to engage in amateurly and unfeelingly with the administration of unions and clubs. Why, ladies and gentlemen, should the clubs be closed down, where groups with 40% of the votes have 67% of the posts in the administrative boards? The problem is not the single ballot. The problem is enhanced crusade. The Minister told us yesterday on the issue of the gender quota, for example, that it cannot be applied to the seats elected by the Special Councils, as provided for by Law 4603/2019, the law of SYRIZA, because this would change the wishes of the voters and the election result. So the enhanced analogy doesn't alter the wishes of the voters, or does it make a quota? So the Minister found more democratic to leave the gender quota only in the nominations for the types. But, on the other hand, to legislate on the enhanced analogy?' Furthermore, even today, it would be right to have a clear answer as to whether there is retrospective power in the issue of terms of terms of terms. It is a matter that you are also very critically critical of within your party. We want you to explain why, for example, a convicted detainee for a felony of a citizen will retain, by your own decision, the right to engage in the administration of professional sports organisations until the terminal becomes irreversibly from the Area Ice, while, respectively, for amateur sport you have not made this change. So you have only done it for professional sport with your well-known logic, that of the two meters and two stations. So the man takes a bravely long extension to his involvement with the administrative associations, and it is quite clear that he can be or be dangerous for the proper functioning of especially professional sport. Do we need to be more specific? This explains the re-establishment of the National Sports Research Centre with many new, innovative responsibilities, as well as the Committee on Equal Opportunities, as well as the schools of coaches. The Committee on Equal Opportunities will not have a member of the PPC of Physical Education who can give an opinion on whether a school of training abroad can and is entitled to be equal to Greece. Why is this so, at the moment, even when the existence of IPA members is stumbled on such exchange-rate committees? I mean, he's one of the most competent for this story. Is that too simple to make it easier for the procedures and the recognitions to be made easier? Do we have another characteristic example here of your supposed excellence? And the transfer of schools to the National Centre is justified when the Physical Education Institutes are in place and the staff and knowledge and logistics infrastructure to undertake such a project? We recall that, as is clear from his name, the National Sports Research Centre is a research body and has neither the staff nor, of course, the experience of adopting such an award. On the contrary, we had legislated to transfer the schools of coaches to Physical Education through the Centres for Lifelong Learning, which would be founded within universities and which would thus also have academic coverage and logistical competence. But once again you are trying to undermine the public university and avoid making a transparent process, unaffected by external factors. You invest in the well-known business with another state certification for management and sale. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing with this, Mr President - this bill comes to arbitrarily regulate sports issues, creating new pathogens in the position of those who theoretically came to heal. The pursuit of the State for sport in our country should have been its massage, its spread in the neighbourhoods, its support now, its pandemic and its investment in total rather than in units. This philosophy of the bill does not have it, because the government does not have it, as was the case with education, as was the case with culture. Efforts are being made to bring about action and showcasement, while jobs are being set up anywhere that is, of course, possible. We are therefore opposed to this logic, we are opposed to this bill and will continue to fight against the way the Conservative Party of the Right has ruled over this place, of course having as the only pursuit the interests of some and not the interests of the entire Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Yiannis Andrianos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by pointing out that we, too, are opposed to the logic of irresponsibility, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, which you have just expressed, speaking of incomplete and silk ribbons, of equipment, of strengthening our country's Armed Forces that are necessary when you see this Turkish provocative and threats to integrity, national security and national interests. So we need responsibility rather than irresponsibility and populism, that you characterise the money of the Greek people who are going to strengthen national defence and that we are talking to extreme right-wing audiences. We must therefore be very careful when we talk about the national defence of our country, when we see the aggression - which is increasing - and the threats of the Turkish side, which are present. Of course, I would like to highlight the positive forecasts, the positive policy, which has a national dimension, with the amendment that the Deputy Minister of Finance brought about the abolition of the ENPI on our small remote islands a little while ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which brings about significant, positive changes in the institutional framework of sport in our country, supplementing the previous relevant initiative by the Government, namely, the law, 4639/2019. Having served as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport in this critical area, I would like to say before addressing the specific arrangements of this draft law, that stepping up my support for the people of sport in our country who have lived and continue to live the consequences - as they are - of the entire society - of the extraordinary treaty, the pandemic of the coronary. Athletes and athletes have in many cases been forced to change their schedule radically. Sports events - with top, of course, the Tokyo Olympics - were postponed. Gymnastics and sports clubs were found in the face of the spectrum of the enclosure, as were other businesses, either in the focus of either tourism or culture. Workers in the wider field of sport were therefore found free of employment. The government has already taken - and takes - measures to actively support sport at all levels and expressions. And this is particularly important, because in the new reality created by the coronary, sport must be supported. It is therefore a matter of physical and mental health for Greeks and Greeks and especially for children and young people. Why, in the end, should we not forget that, apart from the horn pandemic, our country has been living for decades a pandemic on diseases and deaths associated with the absence of sport from our lives. And in this struggle, which is the first aim of bringing as many children as possible, young people and older people into sport - and it is, of course, reaching out to the championship and discrimination that makes us all proud - we need those who become more allies. Of course, we should not close our eyes to the fact that parents are paying for their children while that is the state's obligation. So that is precisely the logic, philosophy and targeting of the bill we are discussing today. Sport needs the continuous renewal of people who will come enthusiastically, with new ideas, with will and energy to further develop sports away from arteriosclerical attitudes and practices and micro-political plans to attach to the chair. So in the sports bill, which was drawn up during my term of office at the Ministry of Culture and Sport and had completed the consultation stage, the definition of terms of reference was important. And this necessary reform was then consolidated. The terms of office of the President of the federations shall give the President concerned sufficient time to implement his or her vision. And I would like to make a point, Minister, about ages. The request from the representatives of the bodies who have put to the hearing on the federations of people with disabilities - and yet Stelios Kyburopoulos has contacted me, I believe - is their term of office to be similar to the archipelagos. It's something I think you'll see. Therefore, there are also important provisions that ensure further transparency and transparency of antiquities, simplifying the recognition of sports clubs, addressing race manipulation and modernising the forecasts for coaches. In particular, I would like to stress from my own experience the importance of the schools of coaches in the General Secretariat of Sports and the positive response that their organisation had to have had, especially as this institution had been neglected for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill aimed at enhancing transparency and accountability effectively, dealing with practices that do not serve the sport movement, improving institutional predictions, such as the rewarding of athletes and disabled students, the health card in intellectual sports. It is a bill that, on the one hand, heals individual ones and, on the other, does not stress the basic philosophy, principles and values that inspire this government in its regulation of critical sectors for our society such as sport. Financial control should be given regularity to guarantee the transparency that our sport needs in order to develop even more. And here it is important that we make use of the electronic register of active unions, which - as you said, Mr Minister - is open to everyone to know what is happening with a view to direct support from the state of the active parties - I stress - sports clubs, as was implemented by the Ministry and during my term of office. It is therefore absolutely essential that the Greek citizens know with all the official knowledge that their money is indeed being used for the development of sport and that they do not go to serve other unrelated purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. And we continue the list of Mr Anastasios Prussakis from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion introduces innovative arrangements by radically renewing the country's sports system. The ultimate aim is to lead Greek sport with a constant platoon on the path of improvement and modernisation, increasingly mobilising the healthy and productive forces of the sporting family. A solid and chronic demand for society as a whole, the restoration of order, full transparency in the country's sports landscape, which gave birth to the Olympic ideal. This draft law rallys the sports family, as it is expressed through bodies, clubs, athletes, parents, young children. I am personally lucky - and I say this very briefly, Minister - because I served with faith and devotion to sport in a family, but at the same time I defended him with a plan and a consistent professional attitude. So I have an opinion and that is why I am calling it and stressing it. Because this law introduces a framework of intersection on the functioning of sports bodies, i.e. federations, associations and associations, bringing about key changes, while at the same time rejuvenating the sport movement by giving voice to clubs, athletes and athletes. The status of coaches and distinguished athletes is being modernised. It is now planned that only active and legitimate amateur clubs, registered in the register of sports players of the General Secretariat of Sports. At the same time, the status of coaches is modernised with the maintenance of the register of coaches, while provision is made for coach services by active athletes. At the same time, the activity of the instructor is expected to strengthen amateur associations, especially in remote urban centres in the country, which are unable for economic reasons to recruit a coach. This legislative initiative promotes the development of sport for disabled persons by addressing time-consuming issues in the field of paralympic sport by ensuring, among other things, fairer representation in the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee of Disabled Persons. At Evros, Minister, the action of unions, associations and organisations of disabled people is important. Thank you for having committed yourself to visiting Evros, and indeed with this targeting. We are proud and enthusiastic about the global discrimination of the athletes of the liquid ray Demosthenis Michalentzakis and Dimitris Karupidis as well as the other values of athletes of the sports club of disabled persons named 'Continos'. We expect the Ministry to record even greater successes for Evros and the country. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to point out that Article 17, with the amendment of Article 134 of Law 2725/1999 on the financing of the costs of moving groups of island regions from the LAG, has made us particularly happy. And I say this in the hope that insularity will succeed in your predictions and plans and accuracy so that the athletes of the remote areas of the country like the Aristotle Evros enjoy additional financial assistance for their travels. Evros, who is the land of champions, is far from the large urban centers and the transition of teams to the large sports events is particularly costly. Ladies and gentlemen, sport and culture should be useful tools for cross-border cooperation and peace, especially in northern Greece and our island region, because not all of it, even with neighbouring countries that show aggression and provocativeness. With the draft legislation under discussion, the dogma is given to run the necessary sports reform, opening up, Mr President, sailing for the development of sports, useful for the Greek birds, useful for the Greek family, which is useful for our Greece. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has been speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. What is this bill New Democracy brings? It is, in our opinion, a roller, who is trying to tear down what is left of amateur sport, which is indeed the last refuge of the people's family and people who value and love sport regardless of whether we agree with them all. That's what she does. And it comes because the New Democracy is a more genuine expression of the capitalist system itself, indeed in a raw way. At the same time what does the bill do? It creates an institutional framework for the suffocating control of amateur sports clubs by the government. For what purpose? In order to ensure commercialisation, to put people, to say so, who are loyal to this doctrine, namely the commercialisation of amateur sport in the standards of professional and state and municipal sports infrastructure. That's what you want to do and don't hide. You'll give it all away, as you give everything to the private sector. That's your theory, anyway. It's not a matter of us blaming. That is your own policy. You believe that it is the private sector that will also ensure the development of sport. This is hypocritical because the private sector - we are talking about great interests, of course, not for small ones - is the profits of a pie that is unthinkable, unthinkable not only in Greece, but throughout the capitalist world. She's unbelievable. People die and billions of transcripts and other things go on. That's your system. So that's what you want to ensure. What for? To serve the great interests. Because, as we say, there's another piece of pie. And, as in all areas, the capitalist system and those who serve it - and it's not just New Democracy, it's just doing a little more cynical and fast - what does it want to do? He wants to give space to ensure greater profits to invest funds that are ponded and do not make such profits. Is what New Democracy seeks to do unprecedented? Because we hear the criticism of both SYRIZA and the Change Movement that have come out on the tiles and wonder. But what unprecedented happened? Where are they living? In all the capitalist world exactly the same thing doesn't happen? Is the European Union's policy not the same, marketing everything? So, is it something disgusting on the right, as some people say, of these bills that come and are related only to the party state and control? Of course, they have something to do with this, and I'll say below. But, in our opinion, it is a "natural" development and a result of the philosophy of the system itself, which now freed from weights, where weights were working in favour of the peoples, the socialist camp and the labour movement worldwide, wants everything here and now. And the main question that exists in which no party other than the JRC answers is as follows: what is sport? Here's the question. Is it a social good, or is it a merchandise? We therefore say that sport is a social asset, that must be offered publicly and free of charge to everyone and enable everyone - to be free from any speculation - so that they can develop these ancient Greeks you said, Mr Augiakis and someone else before. You said about the ideals, I'm talking to an athlete. The chicken is now billions. What does this have to do with speech and sport? Does it have anything to do with genuine sport, the 'healthy minds in the body', to speak to your logic? What's the motive now, the chicken? The chicken is billions. They are the thousands of ads, this humiliating thing that all mankind lives today to starve people to starve and turn billions from here and from there to the major business groups. That's your system. Well, that is the question, and the New Democracy and the other parties as a whole answer that it is a merchandise. Of course, SYRIZA, because he does it sweetly and sweetly, with vaseline, would say if I were allowed to express myself, says that "we can manage this goods better, make it a little softer." But there's no, it's white - black. It'll either be a social good or a merchandise. And no one wonders. Here they sell human organs, here in commerce and in profit everything is sacrificed, there is nothing that is not sacrificed. Indeed, the Minister said so. After describing all the ancient Greek spirit immortal pure father said it is a great economic power. The question is who is a great economic power. For the people? For the workers? For the people's layers, which their children want to be athletic, and, if they have the potential and are provided, do championship? No, it is a great economic power for the great business interests, running to invest and take what is left, that is the essence and we live it every day, even in this area. The criticism of the other parties, I will repeat why we are not all the same in here, nor can we hide and play hidden, and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, and I do not know from the rest, because we did not hear about them, is not at the basis of the problem, which is trade or social good. But it's done on the basis of management, it's done on the basis of corruption, it's done on the basis of the party state, and everything else, which is, of course, there. But in fact, it can't be done. And why can't it be done? Because the delusion and the myth that you can with such a system make a philosophical policy in the field of sport has been demolished at the barracks. There is no capitalist country running philosophical. On the contrary, there is vulgarity, cynical commercialism that leads even to the destruction of athletes all over the place. Machines produce athletes. And they each have ten ads on top of it. This is the noble spirit of sport and the system. And here the controversy is false and falsified. So what's the problem now? The fact that the New Democracy's going to check all this? Of course, the New Democracy does. Why is he doing it? Because he wants to pass this policy quickly. SYRIZA did the same. Why, has SYRIZA raised anything as a government from the great business interests? Did he notice anything about what's going on in the ODP? We speak with all knowledge of the love that the world has for football, but he needs to know what it is. What do we say, for example? The U.S.A.'s going to the Treasury. Why don't you take it? What does this have to do with sport? Are they corporations, yes or no? Are they companies that aim for profit? Entrepreneurs do their job. We don't mess with alpha, beta or gamble businessman. We put them with the system as a whole that works in a sport that is most popular and which is football. It is therefore not a matter of management. Why? We're not talking without any arguments. For those who breathed in the field of sport also took them because the system was forced into a few phases, under the correlation of forces and under the influence of the socialist camp - and I will say a few words later - to make certain concessions. These retreats were what has to do with so-called popular sport. There have indeed been limited structures, of course, without touching on the substance of the system for many years. But when the connection changed, all of this was taken back, as did all the social conquests that workers had. This is where I'd say we're counting straight, not the oak oak. The Olympic Games are not going to leave the memory of the people, and we are also telling you from the memory of youth to look for them, the flag of the Soviet Union that was first blending in the Olympic Games, the flag of the DDR, the German People's Republic, which was second, and your great America, your model with everything it had, was third, and many times it did sabotage. These aren't going to leave. They are not going to leave the great athletes who gave birth to socialism through popular sport and not by the laboratories of the multinational corporations, such as Valerie Borzov, Sergei Bubka, Alberto Juantarena, Stevenson and thousands of others who were not taken out of the experiments and workshops, beyond the weaknesses that might exist. That's where we counted and won. At times like this. Because that was not a birth of merchandise, it was a birth of popular action. It was his birth that all the people were dealing with sport. And because some still mutter, you compare the former socialist countries in the field of sports infrastructure with the largest capitalist ones. You're comparing. They still have these infrastructures. Every neighborhood has everything to do with sport. Every city had everything. With what everyone wanted to do, they were engaged for free, and here the people's family is pulling the mercy. This, however you're trying to erase it, we won't let you or others leave you. This has shown in social aspects the great supremacy of socialism. In very difficult times and don't compare today's technology and evolution to those times. Even in them, this majesty - I say again to you to sleep and remember it - go out the flag with the hammerhead in the Olympic Games, will chase you and be the revenge of the new generation, in front of this misery that exists with hatreds, corruption, incredible money, offspring - whatever you want - in your own sport, Minister. Not to your own personal, we mean the capitalist system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also use my vulnerability time, please. Does the bill address the needs of amateur sports clubs? What is the main need? Economics. First need, beyond orientation. So what are you doing? We shake up - it says - the pond water. Well, are you kidding us? What are the ponds? That they all suffocate. Literally everyone, or so that I am not absolute the overwhelming majority of amateur sports clubs because of the fact that the buckle of funding has been closed, and now it says that we are giving 12 billion, which is not enough for anything, while in the UAE you are giving out debts and fields you are building. There are billions there and I am forgiven by group fans, but another group, another sight and other interests. There you are galants, give, and now go and glean the monkey. So find out what the last union has. We all know that. Those who deal indirectly or familyly with sport live. I will tell you experience from Panhellenic who is one of the largest clubs. First of all, you have not solved the property regime for so many years. Secondly, the money you give is incredibly little. Do you know how children work for sport? You know they don't have shoes and whoever raises the leg leaves them to get the younger ones? Do you know that parents pay for the games to go everywhere? Do you know that coaches who are human athletes with devotion and love in sport are unpaid and have you condemned them to suffocation? I'm talking about Panhellenic, which is one of the largest and most historic unions, not to go to the other things that are much worse. It's much worse in neighborhood unions. They're planting. It's all growing up. What are you doing now? Nothing. You're preparing to put your own people in order to implement this policy. Tell us about it. Did we hear any measures to relieve unions? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Second record. You don't know? Take the papers from the General Secretariat of Sports and if you find associations that do not exist, of course come here to agree to us. You don't do that. You're building new fast-tracked procedures so that in the elections they can rule out non-friends - I can say it elegantly - powers. So what you are doing now is not an incision and a renewal to sport. Don't ruin the words and humiliate them. What you're doing is an election cooking to climb forces that have a full merchandise line, literally. You do this with cynic intervention in the clubs, with the electoral system, with terms of birth and age. Really, how much hypocrisy could that be? We are against both terms of birth and age limits. Because nobody is judged if it's sixty or twenty-five. It could be twenty-five and it might be not say what. He can be a yape who sees numbers and not human beings. You've got a lot of all of you here. Mostly this party and others. He can be a sixty years old who has ideas more pioneering. Age judges? Our rapporteur, Manolis Synthrakis, told you that since you are in favour of age renewal, it should also be in Parliament. We're against it. We've never agreed. Nor have we agreed with the quotas. As if so many women come in, the problem will be solved. The issue of women's equality is not a question of quota. So do it in general. Put the ministers and the MPs on the table as well. Why don't you do that? Why here? It's not a picture? Renewal does not come from the ages, but comes from the political positions and actions that everyone has. I have personally and as a party of people who are seventy and seventy-five years old and are sloppy, love and worship sport. Instead of sitting and enjoying retirement, they run from morning to night, unpaid, to promote amateur sport. You want to get it over with whatever powers exist. Maybe we as a JRC don't agree on everything. You want to throw them all out. You want them to leave to get the computers in. The ones who take the line that says the private will solve all the problems. I'm closing, Mr. President, and thank you. We want to say that beyond that you are trying to bring athletes in contrast to the people who deal with unions and federations. That's too bad. We're not licking our fingers that some go out and mess with the feds. We don't say federations are saint. But that's not how problems are solved. Finally, cultivate the illusion of youth and sportsmen that there can be a Messie, a Ronaldo or anyone else to treasure. But the fate of capitalism is that, although some Messiah and others may come out and become billionaires, but the vast majority of the children of the people's family will be condemned to these crumbs or the unemployment you are giving them today. And that's what we tell you in youth: he's playing as much as he can despite what he's paying everywhere. What do you actually give from taxation to the people's family? Where's the kid going and he's not paying? Tell us. Wherever he wants to go, he's paying. Going to a classic sport? Going soccer? He's gonna go basketball? He's going to war art? Everywhere the family has to dig money. And if she's little, she's got to carry it. The family's stress, who's gonna take it, who's gonna turn it around. But how would you know that? You're probably living in another world. This is the everyday people. We want another society. And we will do it sooner or later with the will of the Greek people. A society where sport, health, education, etc. will be a social asset. Humanity has enormous potential today. And we proved that in history as a first step. Now we will be much better for a happy life for the world and not for a handful of what is a human life. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Palphie. Good evening, too. Happy birthday to as many as those who celebrate. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas, has the floor. You have six minutes, heavy - Mr Heta, because your President has also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, when are the elections going to take place in the NDP? Do we know? There's a state's attitude to transfer the election. There is also the programme - let me say this - that it will take place on 9 October. Is there any chance that it will not be October 9th, Minister? You know that, too, after showing the letter from the NCA to the Prime Minister of the country, by which FIFA informed the NCA of the decision to convene a special election meeting on October 9th. FIFA says that this date should be respected. This story about the self - insurmountable we have experienced in the past on too many occasions. I won't hurt you. I won't say that you might be wrong or right. We lived in 2020 with the PAOK case. In 2019 with Vasiliadis and the restructuring of the charges. In October 2016 with Kontonis. It's not your business. I know it's a difficult obstacle that the state is always called upon to pass. I remember Mr. Orphan before. The man was fighting. It had reached it marginally, but, under the threat of expulsion of the national team or Greek teams from European championships, the state has always retreated. So I don't know if we're all wasting time having this conversation. The bill referred to our rapporteur. What footballers or those who know today are asking today, the big teams, is firstly why the state insists on transferring the EVO elections, and secondly, why it insists that it insists on you being forced to do the elections on 9 October at the end of the day. I don't know if I agree or disagree with this bogeyman called FIFA. Perhaps we should rethink it. Once we're like this and there's this self-defence we can't do anything else. And the world federation clearly says so. If the new sports law contains provisions on the self-employed then it will examine any decision to suspend membership of the NCA. In other words, let the Greek groups be expelled. So all we do is think they have no meaning. You're not gonna do anything. The elections will take place on October 9th, because that is how FIFA, the NCA, imposes. There's the self-help. It's over and out. I would also expect that in the sports bill, Mr. Aygeakis, you have included the notorious restructuring of the charges. The SUPER LEAGUE 2 teams and FOTBALL LEAGUE who have been hostages of indifference on the part of those responsible, therefore yours, leave the restructuring out of the bill. I would remind you that it was one of your election flags that the reorganization and restructuring of the charges was a crown in at least sports. Now there's a silence. I don't know if silence is guilty. However, I will tell you that we arrived in mid-September, Minister, and there are players who don't know if they're professionals or amateurs. Football players are like actors. They're not all mattresses with good contracts. There are athletes who, if they don't play ball, just to say, can't live their families. They go for 500 euros, 1000 euros, 1200 euros, 2000 euros and they go by saying. These people don't know where they're gonna play, what category they're gonna play if there's gonna be restructuring. And we're in mid-September. This does not indicate a good function of the Ministry. To close, because Mr Augias you will allow me to refer to some other things, as I have a right under the Rules of Procedure as a Parliamentary representative, I just wanted to refer to the bills. As far as the amendment is concerned, I hope - I do not know how you will bring it - that they are not together, Minister. In other words, the amendment to the 100 000 jobs that the islands will not be able to join with HISPI on the islands, because that is why you are now snatching us and committing us, because we are clearly positive about the abolition of HISPI on the islands. But for the amendment we now read in the media 'thousands of jobs', 'thousand thousand jobs', 'twelfths of thousands of jobs'. Others are the propaganda announcements that come for legitimisation and when they come here are something quite different. So you are calling here businesses, employers on the basis of the amendment you bring from 1-10-2020, in a few days, if they want, to hire overnumbers of workers for six months, to submit a statement to ERGANE, etc., the State will pay the insurance contributions, and if the person hired is a long-term unemployed person will be subsidised with EUR 200 for six months. Then what will these workers become after six months? Do you consider from the preamble that workers, businesses and employers will keep them? You are showing that you are providing jobs, with foreign sticks - I will say this - and instead of paying an unemployment benefit, you are paying the insurance contributions and you are reducing the unemployment rate for a while. It is clever, but it does not solve the problem of unemployment. That's why I'm saying it's not bad or good. It does not solve the unemployment problem. I hope that you will bring ENPIA apart for the islands so that we can vote at least for the history of ENPIA with the islands. There is not much left to say after today's speech by the President of the Greek Solution, I will simply say this, because I listened to radios in the morning, I listened to Mr. Vorides, many members of the New Democracy and the Government: they refer to the subject of the visit of Zaev to Greece, his meeting with the Prime Minister of our country and the anthems of Zoran Zaev for Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The fact that the Prime Minister welcomes and agrees to listen to the fake Zaev, who praises the Prime Minister for his help, means covering the New Republic the responsibilities of SYRIZA, Tsipras and Kotzias, just as SYRIZA and Tsipras Mitsotakis have covered the "Aegean Ambassadors" we had a few days ago with the reduced AEZ and the agreements with Egypt and Italy. And to agree that you are opposed to the Prespecies Agreement and to agree that the agreement we object to does not change. Why don't you want to know what happened those days? Why was there so much rush and so much study? Unbelievable complaints were made about suitcases, money, pressures, a thousand two, and if we had asked for your partnership in setting up a committee of inquiry to find out what had been done by the Greeks and the Greeks. But here, too, you don't care. I'll testify to the Skopje Practical Schools for violations. Where should I start? Website for the country's tourist promotion, "Macedonia", national Kayak federation is referred to as "Macedonia", "Macedonia's Ministry of Transport and Communications Macedonia", a public transport company called "Macedonia", their national theater called "Macedonia", "Visit Skopje", another page promotes tourism "Macedonia", "Museum Museum of Mother Teresa, Macedonia", the Skopje National Gallery, "Gallery of Macedonia", a memory centre of the Holocaust, a museum of Macedonia, a monument dedicated to the uprising of Iliden, academia sciences and arts of Skopje. Wherever referred to ‘Macedonia’, ‘Macedonia’, ‘Macedonia’. Since I do not have much time, I will only deal with one issue, Mr President, and I will close. I will make a lot of money out of my speech today, respecting colleagues and their struggle in the Greek Parliament because we still have many hours in front of us. We talked about masks many times too. We will make it clear once again that we are talking about young children under twelve, as the World Health Organisation says. I wonder, is the WHO, which says that 'below the twelve is not recommended', is Sypsis wrong - unbelievable -!, our national epidemic who terrorizes Greeks every day is right? Man came to tell us - I am not talking about saying two months ago that the mask becomes dangerous after two hours, I am not talking about that - not hug and not kissing our children. Do you understand what these people, these terrorists, the "Symbols" you have planted in the world every day? Shouldn't we hug and kiss our kids? You gave cucumbers - another paradox and I close with it - the Greek Government, the state, these lousy pilgrims, here are, you share them with our children, I will submit them in the Minutes, no shame, because these pilgrims are "made in Germany, Bremen". Isn't there a company rheumatism in Greece we could get the cucumbers - which is really a funny case - from Greeks? It is their semantic character that our remarks are made, and of course we will testify the'made in Germany, Bremen' in the Minutes, if anyone is sensitized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Heta. I will give the floor to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, for Amendment No 465 which seeks to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be presenting to the Parliament of our National Representation, a very important and positive intervention by the Government, an intervention announced by the Prime Minister a few days ago at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, an intervention which in practice demonstrates the interest of the Government, the Ministry of Labour, for what we believe all our policies at this time have at their centre the unemployed and the worker. The achievement of this objective can only be achieved by active employment policies, but also by policies which have already been passed by Parliament, have been legislated since the beginning of the pandemic, ten of them have been legislated over a period of time, policies which have actually covered all the workers, all the unemployed and all the businesses in this difficult period. That's our policy. It is a policy that, before you today, I am tabling the amendment which includes this very brave and unprecedented amendment. It is the intervention to support the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs, as we hope and hope. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is an intervention which - I reply directly to Mr Heta - does not come to solve the problem of unemployment, nor has our ideological body ever believed that such interventions solved the problems of unemployment. But he's coming to touch the problem. In a difficult period of time we are making an intervention to support businesses, the unemployed, so that they can find jobs at this difficult time. In what way? By taking over the state - quite rightly - with EUR 350 million the non-wage cost, and that is exactly what this intervention is doing. How does the unemployment problem respond? That is why our policy is not just a one-dimensional policy. It is a web of many politicians who complement each other. It is the other policy, which is not in this amendment, but I have to mention it, because these things are linked. It is structural change, the major reform of non-wage costs, the reduction in insurance contributions by 3.9 points - 0.9 points have already been made. The three units will take place from 1 January 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would remind you, in this House, I was a Member of Parliament, Minister of 2012-2014, who had the exorbitant height of insurance contributions, in 46.66, of the highest in the world, not attractive for any business to hire a worker and if he hired, what was happening was to be undeclared. Six units decreased in 2012-2014. Today, at the Mitsotakis Government 3.9 units, which will actually bring the level of non-wage costs of insurance contributions to a normal level, such as all other European countries. So here is what is the right approach to dealing with unemployment. This will reduce unemployment, reduce undeclared work, reduce incentives for infraction. So, ladies and gentlemen, this provision shall apply from 1 October 2020. It's the arrangement you have in your hands. For reasons of parliamentary ethics, however, I have to read some of the amendments. I will be at your disposal if and if there are questions about this initiative we are putting forward. Our programme is therefore a programme of the Ministry of Labour to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. All insurance contributions of an employee and employer, irrespective of the amount of the monthly salary and the corresponding insurance contributions to gifts and licence benefits, shall be calculated and paid after the relevant ADR is presented, called the Analytical Periodic Declaration, and shall be paid with the resources of the State for six months. In the event that the new intake relates to a long-term unemployed person registered with the Labour Force Insurance Agency, OAED, the new intake shall be further subsidized to EUR 200 on the net monthly salary. At the end of six months the worker may continue his work in the employer's undertaking which hired him as long as both parties agree. In this case the worker is now fully paid by the firm and the employer. Workers who place themselves in the new jobs of the present day cannot join the Programme 'COMPANY - WORK' nor can their contracts of employment be suspended. We're clear. So they are clean new jobs, neither tricks with businesses nor tricks with employers. The employer's undertaking to recruit new people or new recruits, one or more, must be responsible for stating the following. The fact that I am going to read to you has one single purpose, to support the consistent ones, because the core of our policy is that it is consistently rewarded. That is why the advantage of hiring this human resource, the new hiring of the hundred thousand, will have it horizontally all of the companies, which are either affected or affected, or which have not been reduced - provided they are tax and insurance information. Or if they owe, their debts have been settled. In particular for the calculation of jobs, active jobs in the undertaking shall be taken into account when publishing the present, including those which have been suspended to be increased by the number of new subsidised employment contracts currently in force. The termination of a retirement, death or voluntary retirement contract or the termination of fixedterm employment contracts shall not normally be counted. That is to say we are counting - we are photographing today the number of workers in the company and that is our starting point. Those who are added from there and beyond should, as long as there are recruits, Mr President, remain in full. Cross-checks of all the above data following requests from business managers shall be carried out in the Ministry of Labour by the Ministry of Labour, the Independent Authority of Public Revenue, AAED and the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Contributions, CRLs. In short, all this part of the measurement, the photograph of workers, compliance with the rules, fiscal and insurance consequences will be checked by the Ministry of Labour through the "ERGANI" system. The other institutions I mentioned will give the information electronically. The next article goes on to say that after the cross-checks, if and when there is an undertaking of inconsistency which used this mechanism to hire workers, it itself owed taxes whether it owed insurance contributions or did not keep the number of workers, then it is obliged to pay the total insurance contributions. The state won't pay for it. That is our proposal, ladies and gentlemen. This is a positive proposal, a proposal for which I think Parliament, an area in which we are crossing our ideas, our different proposals and opinions, but it is also the area of composition and added ideas and opinions, if and when they move in the right direction. I believe, Mr President, that at least this very important initiative by the Government, which will help this difficult period especially young children and people who are out of the labour market to find work, to salute and support all the parties in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. Is there any of the parliamentary representatives who want to answer the Minister? In turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u193	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u194	Here you go, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, after you have succeeded with your policy over the past few months in losing two thousand jobs, you are now coming as a stepping-up of a policy and measures which have dismantled the existing industrial relations, and furthermore you will speak to us for 100 000 new jobs, which, however, do not guarantee anything in the companies that will make use of what you propose to do already will remain in the number of workers, but also as natural persons and with the same working relationships. You do not clarify that. If this is not clarified, you realize that it is a new incentive, yes, to take away the workers who will pay for their insurance contributions, but at the same time they enter the trench to reduce the pay of their workers. And that is absolute and clear, and you need to clarify it. In any case, Minister, you are preparing to do other things that are destroying conquests and centuries-old rights. Eight hours: You come here and you say in the name of the emergency situation created by the pandemic that whoever does overtime will not be paid, but will take the day off. It's rubber, that's eight o'clock. Where are we going? And in any case, because you spoke about undeclared work, it seems you have forgotten that when you were in the previous period, in the first years of the memorandum, the Labour Inspectorate was decorative. When a verifier was supposed to go, they called him before and they said, "We're coming." That is why he was not even able to record what was done in the days of SYRIZA, which was first paid by a recommendation from the Greek state, this number of overtime. He hadn't made it. And now that we have no doubts, you completely put it in the fridge and typically abolishing it as a Special Secretariat. Is it known what you want to achieve, but so unequivocally? The same person to pursue the same policy which has been left out of the first and second Memorandums, which is now well known, not a Memorandum of Understanding, but a policy of the Pissaridis Commission? I am very sorry, although it seems that this does not excite you, but we will not support this amendment and vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Skourlet. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I have been a parliamentary representative of the party for many years, which I have the honour of serving. The issues of education, sport and culture were usually not chosen to be in the House by representing the Change Movement and earlier the PASOK and the Democratic Compact. So in November I was not a representative. I was just a Member of Parliament who had the attitude of his party. Today Mr Augias made two or three references to the legislation of November. I agree with you that we do not have a staff, on the contrary we have supported the country in very difficult times. I don't have anything personal. But I have opinions. And I have a scientific training that might help. So you have invoked the past and I insist to tell you that in the past you have no answer on retrospective matters. I have, however, looked at what was said in plenary at the time. Mr President, the Change Movement and SYRIZA had raised an objection of unconstitutionality under Article 100 for the unconstitutionality of the then Article 8(2). I don't remember exactly. I will read from the minutes of the House on page 4627. Mr Augias took the floor and stated: 'The paragraph 2 of Article 8 on retroactiveness is deleted'. I read what Mr Kaklamanis, who was chairing: "Mr. Minister, withdraw retroactiveity. There is an objection of unconstitutionalism and a relevant opinion from Mr Alvizatou." It's withdrawn by Mr. Aygeakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I read from the Minutes. Listen, what's next. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos speaks of SYRIZA and says: "It is a fact that the Minister has deleted this particular arrangement on the subject of retrospectiveness, which we must recognise." Mrs Sakorafa says: "I start with retrospectiveness. Retrospectiveness is not even meant for the most detestable criminal offences. You got it, you got it, you got it back..." etc. Our MEP, Dimitris Konstantopoulos said: "The retroactiveness of the regulation was properly removed, as we and other parties requested. I read from page 4691 of the Minutes. Also, Ioannis Burnus, a SYRIZA MEP, said: "Since the Minister, at least slowly, understood at least as to the order of retrospectiveness that he would be against the Constitution, it is positive." This is from page 4634 of Parliament's Practices. Mr. Giokas of the KKE had said: "With the specific arrangement and retroactiveness that you withdrew..." etc. The withdrawal provision is included in the Minister's Legislative interventions which he has submitted. And those are in the Minutes. I wonder what's going on. How did the device float? Who's to blame? I am addressing Mr Tasouula, the President of the Parliament, to the Parliamentary Legislative Service: Who is making fun of the National Representation? We will all be taking a stand on this today. We're not leaving the Chamber without it being cleared. I would like to address the President of Parliament and say to him: the withdrawal of objections to anti-constitutionalism by two parties has been abducted. The positive criticism of all parties in the withdrawal of November was expressed. And the order remained behind the backs of the House. That's called a joke. That's what it's called humiliation. I've been here for years and my eyes have seen too much. I've never seen that before. Really, I've never seen it before. Either we get an answer today or the Change Movement cannot stay in the Chamber under these circumstances. I'm telling you, I don't have anything with the man. I don't have anything with Mr. Ausgekis. I remember the years of the common struggle, but I have opinions. And here, there's reality. And the reality, Mr President, is painful. It is not possible to continue the process if we know that, as the government says, it is being tabled or not, someone behind our backs is doing more. Mr President, I do not know how to tell you otherwise. I think that words are unnecessary from a point of view. But you must be sensitive immediately. Otherwise, participation in dialogue is a mockery. Since this morning, I have been addressing the majority with respect first of all, and I tell them that the country has been involved in an adventure. You will be called upon to take these back with a word that will be added as an amendment to a draft law. And since our fellow Member, Mr Economou, and his dear Minister, reminded us of the past in November, I repeat that it has no influence on our legislative work and on the constitutionality of the House. Has the consent of this House been undermined? Who did this? The services must tell us who said to whom an employee a provision that the Minister withdrew from remain in the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u198	The retired device does not come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u199	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Loverdo, I'm really surprised. This show today you give has no precedent. Believe me, you read the Minutes selectively and do not go below. For the truth, a little below, I'm explaining. In fact, in order to inform journalists and athletes and interested persons who had started to confuse things, I have also explained that. And there has also been a relevant post that took the RES and published right and left. We're not completely altering. Stop provoking impressions, just to justify your stumbling this morning. I understand your experience. I understand the feeling of the disappointment you have at the moment from the potato you have made this morning, to address the Members in a way that is disgraceful. Mr Lovedro, it is a shame to speak this way to colleagues who may not have your own experience in legal matters, but, if anything, they know, they are watching and are - and were at that time - here hours. At the end of the day, do not try to create impressions even for the Scientific Service of the Parliament, who attended, recorded and submitted their own views, which were absolutely respected. And you come now, create impressions, saying, doing, showing. Today, you, the Change Movement and those of you who believed in you who believed that - you have caused unconstitutional unconstitutional turmoil and theme of unconstitutionalism. Because that is not the case. The device shall be completely deposited correctly in the manner laid down. Parliamentary lessons, if anything, I accept, but not in this way, in a wrong way by a teacher otherwise. I would ask you very much to review what you said just now. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u201	No way! And I want you to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Brutsis, would you like to answer Mr. Skourletis, to close the loose end and give the floor to Mr. Gregoriadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u203	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, Members must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u205	He has been asking for the floor for some time now. She's in a hurry. Parliament and the Minister intervened. What am I supposed to do now? Can I keep him? You're right about what you're saying. I thought we'd put two.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u206	They should speak first of all with two Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u207	Sensitivity is known...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Colleague, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, we have the right, as all the parliamentary representatives speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u210	According to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u211	Start with yours, dear...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Gregoriadis will speak properly. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would not have taken the floor, but I think it is a challenge, because I said just before, at the closure of my position, in presenting the programme of 100 000 jobs, that which is a common experience or the aim of all of us in here, to separate us from different ideological and political approaches, but at least to the self-evidently agree and agree. To my surprise, therefore, a moment ago, I heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman in the same old, outdated, stunned perception, trying to argue that - supposedly - we are destroying the universe, that we are against the working class, so that it does not vote for the hundred thousand jobs. That's who you are. You were, you were, and you'd be the same and unaltered. Severe zero! Responsibility zero! All on the party altar. You even sacrifice good. You are in the policy of 'no' to everything, of the isotopeic perception and you remain there. What arguments did you invoke? Did you invoke the argument of unemployment? Is our Government responsible for our policies to increase unemployment? We haven't been government since July? Here's the statistics. Are you questioning ELSTAT? In June 2019, when you were government and delivered, unemployment was 17.1%. Were you pro-workers all tied up? Were you able to reach Europe's average target? No, it was 17.1 percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u214	Ten units...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u215	How much has unemployment come down during this period? We arrived in March 2020 at 14.4%, the historically lower than the period of all the memoranda. And the decline in unemployment continued. Unfortunately, the pandemic is ahead. And says SYRIZA: No, for what's happening, for stopping de-escalation it's your policy and not the pandemic. Basically, it closes the eye and says: Look, if we were, we could have an article and a law to vote for the abolition of pandemic. That's what he says. That's who you are, Mr. Skourlet. Who are you kidding? Is it all in Greece? Why don't you go to Portugal, where the unemployment rate has been doubled, to your own political relatives, to say your recipe? Anyway, do what you want. Make any decision you want. You will be exposed once again to the Greek people and especially to the unemployed, whom you do not want with your vote to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, may I have the floor to clarify something, not to answer it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u218	No, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u219	Let me clarify something about the vote because the two arms are together in the same amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u220	I've answered your question. In the end, you will vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u221	In a minute, Mr President, I will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u222	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u223	The amendment is a single one. On the HIS side, we said with the criticism that we were in favour. As far as this part is concerned, I have developed my opinion why we are not in agreement. Obviously from the moment it is united, this will be expressed in a single way in 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not avoid the temptation to start from what has been said in the last few minutes. It is clear that something that has not gone well at all, which was not at all normal in November during the debate on constitutionality or not of retrospectiveness, the same problem that we are facing today, in other words, in relation to the archiving of sports clubs and associations. This is something that's weird. I say this in good faith, and I voluntarily use that word. It's outrageous, someone would say, weird. Five formations of politicians who participated in the committees and are here today, the remaining five parties except for what governs the country, and five tells the Minister responsible: "Thank God for turning your mind to your head..." - apologise for the expression - "...thank God you came to your senses. Thank God you get a manifestly unconstitutional provision back into your bill, because that's how we start to be able to discuss this bill." The Minister just five minutes ago, that is after too long, told us for the first time that they are allegedly fragmented what Mr Loverdes read. Because I've read it myself, I assure you it's not fragmentary at all. It is all the parties in Parliament that the positions, the relief, that is, that we have finally turned to a legality, a constitutional legitimacy. The Minister, therefore, left us all insurmountable today to say that it is a fragmentary use of his words made by Mr. Loverdos and that in fact immediately afterwards, if we read better, we would see that he himself explained to all the political groups of the Greek Parliament that: "You are wrong. I insist on this provision.' If that had happened, how would it have gone so easily? Why wouldn't there have been an anti-constitutional objection last time in November? Why did it take us so many months later to deal with the same problem again and to object to unconstitutionality? It is obvious, Mr Augias - I say it since you have turned around - that if you have the Minutes where you clearly explained to this House that you did not mean that you withdraw the article relating to the retrospectiveness of the antiquities, give them to us. Report back to the House, let's see them again, because we didn't see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u226	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u227	We saw what Mr. Loverd told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u228	Please, Minister, you have not been interrupted by Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u229	We're really all here. Check it out. We'll be glad to make a mistake. But testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u230	They're in the Secretariat. Find them and read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u231	Please, Minister, do not engage in dialogue. Go on, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u232	You invoked them. After you have invoked them and you know them and told them, let them read them too. Your sport law, Mr Minister, and not yours, the sporting law of the central government of Mitsotakis, is only on the papers of sport law, since in this draft law the government is simply handing over amateur sport to the forces of the powerful market. Freighting is called this. The Government of New Democracy has certainly found an indirect way of trying to achieve this. How did he do it? It simply did it by dramatically curtailing the public funding of our amateur sports clubs, establishing photographic provisions, strengthening drunkenness and, ultimately, promoting and supporting exotic appointments to the boards of sports clubs, sports associations and sports federations. I think it is useful to see how professional sport in Greece works in practice, because this is how we will find the foundations of the commercialisation of sport, which - I recall and agree with Mr Pafilis who spoke before me - is a good folklore, an expression of vitality, health, healthy speech, socialism and groupness. So professional sport in Greece was institutionalised in the late 1970s or, if you prefer, in the early 1980s and, of course, with what else? - with the most popular in our country, but also in the world, sport that is football. The commercialisation of sport, sport, sport, the group apart from the primary event of the undoing of all joy and vitality leads, unfortunately, at the same time, diversely parasitic interests to intrude into sport and through popular associations to gain peculiarity. Moreover, as the representatives of all these interests link their completely out-of-sport business with the performance of sports clubs, of which they are also owners, they gain broadly and inaccurately - let me say - support from large portions of friends and fans of these clubs. This indiscriminate support leads almost to blind fanatical commitment, not to the group's idea, but to the work of the president-owner himself. In this way, the yeast of the creation of an army of fans is ready and, like every army, the completely structured hierarchy combined with discipline leads friends - followers to eventually turn themselves into soldiers ready to obey the entanglements of their own leader. Violence is the abrupt of the creation of the host armies, like any military type of organization. Is it not accidental, after all, that the neonazi motif, which was well-known to you here a few years ago, the Golden Dawn, began the horrendous recruitment and manning of the even gruesome raids he built - from what else? - from fanatical football teams. We can only be suspicious and reluctant, ladies and gentlemen, when worldwide popular professional sport exists only to serve gambling, when all sports events, all the popular sports teams have the majority of the dominant sponsors, as you all know, bet companies. Trading and exploiting sport for speculation seems to be a one-way path for a government like yours, a government that is inextricably serving all the rules of the market and capital. Sport, however, ladies and gentlemen, is not a commodity or a means of manipulation. Sport is your right of all and your obligation, the state's obligation is to provide it to citizens. That is what I have to say about the bill we are debating today and now let me come by a little while to comment on the news. You know, ladies and gentlemen, and our people - just outside this Chamber, this society and this people - are being sighed and narrowed, they are, as we all know, being sceptically narrowed, and lately they are being sighed nationally, as we claim our lands, claiming our islands, claiming our continent. You'll tell me that in life that's the way it happens, in societies that's how it happens. There's been good days, bad days. There are problems coming, sometimes many problems come together. I'll take it. But what I cannot accept in any way is the government's firm decision that has been ruling the country over the last fifteen months on such huge problems and combined problems. In other words, it is not enough that the other one is hungry, at the same time he is also afraid of his life, and at the same time he is also afraid of his homeland. And I mean the other me, but most importantly, I mean the one who's not a Member, the one who's just a citizen. The problem with you, dear friends of the Couple, is one, is that you are systematically fifteen months running these very real problems, which you must first analyse and then try to deal with, you are confronted by the only communication. Let me just say it: it seems for the last 15 months that you have been concerned with very serious problems, the problems threatening our generation, which threaten our homeland - the existence of a whole - all you care about is how you communicate this through your very friendly tens of TV stations and the three public channels you control. It seems your only concern is how you serve the Greek people another reality from the reality that really exists. You know, I want to inform you that this method is an extremely short-size method, it is not going anywhere, because as you communicate a goddamn problem that leads to the unemployment of a million fellow citizens or leads to the poverty of three million people in this small country, it is ultimately impossible to mislead these four million in total who are suffering from the problem. Communications shall be managed by third parties. And as long as the miserable society of the 2/3 allowed you to make 1/3 is a minority that makes no difference to the alienated 2/3 of the Greek society, it had good. We inform you from Mera25 that more than half of the Greeks have been fleeing from the crisis that three, four Memorandums and the governments that supported them have created them. So we inform you that these people cannot be laughed at in any communication way, because they simply live every day when they wake up the problem that their day does not come out, that they will not feed their child, that they will not find a job in the Monday Presence. So our society and our people are squeezing. Stop, please, dealing with it in communication! It's not working. Let's take things one, one, to see what I mean exactly. We have a pandemic issue, a new outburst, a second wave long before the third wave comes, and we very much fear that they will join a giant wave the second and third, as it is before the pillars - theoretically, based on the World Health Organisation - the third and we are at the top of the second. How did this second wave fall? From heaven? Oh, no! What was there before the second wave? There were two data, which I submit to the Greek Delegation. The first presumption, Mr President, was that we had no cases in Athens. In the urban centres from which the coronary was extinguished, cases were completely extinguished at the beginning of June. At least zero cases have been announced for at least a few days and weeks by your Government. The second presumption is that so long you have had quarantine so that we don't go to our villages and our islands and infect the locals who were spotless. Therefore, given that both the islands and the holiday spaces and the Greeks who started at the city centers to go to the islands and the holiday areas, there was no problem. Who's the only factor in here? He's one and only. They're the strangers! You know, we're not even xenophobic at all. We're fanatical friends of foreigners, every kind of stranger. However, it is clear that your Government made a beastly mistake, opened the borders at the most inappropriate time to get crumbs - crumbs we consider the EUR 2 billion you claim, we do not know at all whether you will get them - from tourism, when they cost you, they will cost us EUR 10 billion to our health. And that proved to be it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know - I will soon finish, Mr President - ladies and gentlemen, when any authority starts to be dangerously shaken, the first sign of this shock is the irritation of its representatives. The second is arrogant behavior. For the past two weeks, your government, the Mitsotakis government, has had a strong reaction to both these symptoms. The Prime Minister came out last week, listening to the Secretary of Mera25 speaking from this very moment on, and the Prime Minister told him in his denture "I do not allow you to call the country a underdeveloped debt colony". First of all, our Chief rightly replied to him that it is not his institutional job to allow the representative of thirty-three thousand people to say what he is going to say. However, it is true that your Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is irritating, as he is the person in the territory who best knows from all of us that 15 months now governs a underdeveloped debt colony. I'm sure he'd like to have hired himself after seven months of coronary more than four hundred doctors and even permanent in the ESS after seven whole months of pandemic, right? I am sure that the Prime Minister would have liked to have hired a number of ten thousand permanent teachers, as he would have been able to build many new school rooms that would have reduced the crowding between our juvenile pupils and escaped this great self-arming with the masks that these children make to be like a donor to the occupation. I am also sure that Mr Mitsotakis would have liked to have thrown a EUR 30 billion into the real economy, thereby supporting the businesses and workers affected by the pandemic. How am I sure about all this? I am sure of that, because I know that regardless of the ideology of each Prime Minister in any geographical and longitude of this land, which respects the institution it represents, but also the people who elected him, all these things would like to do so. So the question is why it is not the answer that the government itself, through its Prime Minister or its ministers, gives us many of them in this Chamber, is that it does not do so because they do not leave it. Every Memorandum that comes to us says "I'm sorry, I have a memorandum from the previous ones, and I'd very much like to get ten thousand doctors, I'd like to get ten thousand teachers, but they're my hands tied up". So why doesn't he leave him? Who doesn't leave him? The Commission does not leave him with the four Memorandums that the New Democracy has voted for, the Change Movement and SYRIZA do not leave him. This confession, however, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, in itself means that you are running a underdeveloped debt colony. And every time you make this confession to justify the unjustified, putting the burden on the backs of the previous Memorandum, you are actually confirming the underdeveloped debt colony.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u233	And finish, please, unless you get your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u234	I'll be right over. The last thing is: What did our Prime Minister finally say in relation to the written agreement with Turkey? The Prime Minister is listening to what he said: he contemplated that there was an agreement, but confirming that there was an agreement. Then he talked about a written reprint of the agreement - since there was no agreement - but there was agreement and the written reprint was made to reflect as practical the terms of the agreement, but that was never the case, since there was no agreement. This non-existent agreement, ladies and gentlemen, the existing minutes confessed by the Prime Minister at the IGC - which was not done - can we read them too? And when I say "we", I don't mean us, I mean the Greek people. I conclude, Mr President, with this: Mr Varoufakis was accused of having dared to give the President of the Greek Parliament the Minutes of the Eurogroup to share them with Parliament and the Greek people. This practice was accused of irresponsible. Another irresponsible, the truth, to be revealed to the Greek people, is, however, defined as irresponsibility. Will the Prime Minister follow the example of Varoufakis to give us the practicalities of the nonexistent agreement that was never in existence, so that the Greek people could know on what basis this government was planning to make what agreement? Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to Mr Themistoklis Himara from New Democracy and Phythiotida. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Now to mention the fact that the procedure has become an insult to Members of Parliament, I think it is unnecessary. You understand, I'm the fourth speaker and we've all been here since 10:00 in the morning. I think that the procedure had to be followed a little differently, it became insulting to all colleagues, and that was not your concern, Mr President. You know I'm not talking to you. If I say that I follow this series of speeches and last placements, I will have to answer the KKE because Messie has such a high contract, I will have to answer the previous speaker what Varoufakis did. No, that's not what Varoufakis did, he didn't give the minutes, he destroyed the Greek economy, he loaded us with a huge debt. I have to tell the Greek Solution, which accuses Mr. Syssa, and speaks of porcupine, that herbs work is not done with the coronary. I'm gonna have to get into a conversation like that. I think it's more useful to get into the bill, to be in time. I will put two questions in relation to the bill: who is the healthy core in sport today and who should be the guide of every legislative initiative we have in sport? Both the answer to these questions is common: they are our athletes, ladies and gentlemen, those who succeed through the many adversities and with little or no means of discrimination in our country and make us proud. We are all aware that the economic crisis of the last ten years has also hit at sport. It is also known that the administrations of the sports federations did everything they could to cope with a total lack of resources. This was the good example of the operation of sports administrations, one aspect of the currency. Unfortunately, the other side of the currency does not even allow us to be optimistic today, because there have been and there are still sporters who have strong internal pathogens, a pathogen that inevitably led to sport on a downward path. This is what needs to be changed and it needs to be changed now, because now is the time to hear the voice of the athletes, those people who are striving every day to achieve the impossibles. It is time for the air of administrative renewal to blow up to sports bodies, to function in a context of transparency and democracy. And you know, the Government of New Democracy since the beginning of its term has planned and implemented a step - step by step and the reforms that the sport space has been demanding for decades, reforms focusing on a clear targeting: Sport is always in the hands of healthy forces, in the light of the needs of athletes. So the draft law we are debating today is an incision to sport and most importantly it is that our own athletes have already embraced it. It is a bill that has been drafted and incorporated most of the sports world's proposals, a bill that listened to those who knew better. It is the continuation of the sport reform launched last October by establishing age limits and restricting terms to federations administrations by introducing changes in the blockages of election. Today's bill establishes a system of enhanced proportional representation in terms of the emergence of management boards and sports bodies. It puts an end to the long periods of dysfunction and insolence of sports clubs, while it eliminates the phenomenon of unions - ghosts, unions that had no racing activity and at the same time were normally voting for the elections, thus affecting in many cases also altering the election result. With today's legislation, we focus on the housekeeping of the sports landscape. The right to elect only active and legitimate amateur associations, which are financed fairly and on objective criteria, is granted. The establishment of the electronic register of sports bodies of the General Secretariat of Sports shall simplify the procedures for the granting of special sporting recognition to clubs. Thus, a time-consuming request from sports clubs is met. Coaches shall be strengthened and their profession protected by keeping a register to the General Secretariat of Sports. Our bill enables active athletes to practice on preconditions and training activity, which could not be applied with the current provisions. It is also simplifying the licensing procedure for certain sporting facilities, many of which, as we know, were working more or less and without permission. The bill takes one more step. It in practice strengthens the sport of people with special skills. It takes the step toward the Paralympians, making them direct participants in decision-making in their official collective bodies. Finally, the National Platform of the Macolin Convention is implemented to address the scheduled games, where information on manipulation of the sports games is collected on the platform and then transmitted to the competent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill seals the sporting reform of this government. The aim of the bill is to lead Greek sport to an upward orbit, to highlight and mobilize the healthy productive forces of our country. The word 'household' used by the Minister is for me the most appropriate. It is a bill that acts as the self-evident demands of the people of sport, a bill that restores order and ensures transparency in the sports landscape of our country, a bill that I am sure will give impetus to athletes and our athletes and will make them trust the Greek state again. The political direction of the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, is to get into order in the field of sport, something that we are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Himara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u239	Don't worry, Mr. Gregoriadis, I'll give you the floor. Just before I give you the floor, I would like to tell Mr Himara that he is absolutely right. I, too, regret to see that they have been here since the morning and, finally, to speak at 5 p.m., as is the case with Mr. Akippis who has been here many times since the morning and his turn to speak this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u241	But what can we do? On the basis of Article 5, the Parliamentary Representatives shall have a series. So I will first give the floor to the Minister and then to you, Mr Gregoriadis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u242	I will be very quick, Mr President, and I apologise to my fellow Members. Dear Mr. Loverdo, here are the Minutes. Why didn't you read them whole and cheat Parliament? The Minutes are therefore expressly said - and I refer to the Minutes which, as I took it, you also took them earlier - that the paragraph 2 of Article 8 is deleted and that the rest of the paragraph remains. You've been lying for so long, something you don't get used to, and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u243	I didn't say that. Article 8(2), I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u244	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo. And the rest of the paragraph remains, as it had been tabled. So I'll say it very simply. And I put it in the Minutes, although it is a document of the House, it is nothing different. It's a pity, Mr. Loverdos, to create impressions. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So I'm showing it to you to see if there's any visual image. There is this whole wording, we removed this here and it remains exactly what has become the law of the state, Mr Loverdos. That is why it is incomprehensible - and I am really sorry - that you, an experienced parliamentarian, try to deceive Parliament and your colleagues by lying and not reading the Minutes, which, as you have taken them, I have also taken them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u246	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u247	Wait a minute, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, let Mr. Loverdos answer first because he said he was lying and I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u249	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Ingenious, lying, deception, and I don't know what else you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u251	I read the Minutes, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u252	Wait a minute, please! Minister, you have not been interrupted by Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u253	You felt the need after so many years to break decent political codes of communication and to "dress" what you did in November, the deception of this House, with such phrases. From now on, I am not responsible for how we will continue to talk in this House. Paragraph 8(2) of Article 8 has been withdrawn - I have said nothing more or nothing less - and the agreement of all the parties in this House, except the majority, has been taken away from the floor. However, Mr Kaklamanis pointed out the unconstitutionality of retrospectiveness and Alivizat's opinion from this Step, which he repeated this morning, but I just didn't hear him use it. You fooled the House! You heard them tell you that you withdrew the retroactiveness without reacting. You have won a few seconds of a positive opinion from this House on you, and in the paragraph which has remained intact, as you today have grievously confessed, the indirect retroactiveness has remained. If retrospectiveness was the problem that forced you to withdraw paragraph 2, you should add three words to the previous paragraph of Article 8, which yes, is repeated today for the reasons we were saying this morning. If not...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u254	So you blame this House for being naive?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u255	I say you fooled this House, that you deceived it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u256	Please, Mr. Lightla!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u257	If this is to your credit, get out and cut. I made it clear that I was not here on that day, Mr Fotella. If you think that getting such a scam at the expense of this House is to praise you, let them praise you, but as humiliators and not as Members who stand with dignity in the National Representation, if that is what you want! I wasn't going that far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u258	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u259	Please, Mr. Lightla! Mr. Loverdo, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, getting praise from this House for a change of position which you do not change on the substance of the matter, because you have a provision that in an indirect way says the same - overcoming the substance rather than the substance - is essentially, literally, a deception of the national delegation. I'm criticising that. I'm criticizing the method. I'm not a glaucomb. We are not taking a legislative initiative. We are critical of the handling. And since the Minister wants us to get away from realism, let's get away with it. You made fun of the National Representation! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u262	I read it so there won't be any questions. It is a pity to try all this time to transfer the burden of responsibility here, while you did not understand or do what you did not understand. That is, in fact, neither too much nor very much do you present your colleagues, Mr Loverdos, to you - as naive and a pity. So let's go. The wording of the original was said. Article 8(1): ‘It shall not be permitted for the same person to elect a chair of a sports federation more than three times in total and in any other executive board of a sports federation of more than two consecutive or partial term of office. The above terms of office with regard to the President may be extended for an additional term if the seventh year of his age has not been completed. A person who has served on two consecutive terms as an executive board of a sports federation may be re-elected in such a position, provided that a period equal to one full term has elapsed. Once the above age limit has been reached no one may be re-elected in any seat of the governing board of sports federations.’ Paragraph 2 of Article 8 states: ‘For the purposes of applying the preceding paragraph of this Article, the terms of reference which have been completed before, and those which have been active since the publication of this Article, shall be taken into account.’ So I say by asking the Bureau - and I have tabled it in the Minutes - that we withdraw Rule 8(2). So, what's left of it, Mr. Loverdo? It's just math. The first paragraph which I read to you remains and which was tabled. How mind does a colleague of yours need to have, since you were not here in the Chamber at the time, to understand that I am withdrawing one paragraph, the second paragraph, and the first paragraph remains? Who did I deceive? You are trying to deceive your fellow Members and all this world that has been trying so long to get hooked up by some sort of unconstitutionalism. Stop it! Today, unfortunately, Mr. Loverdo, you have fallen into a slip. You said unconstitutional, you said we were coming to vote again. Then you pulled it back, it says yes, we realize that we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u263	You've said that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u264	I'm sorry, I'm not done, Mr. President. You have no right to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u265	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u266	You fell into a slipper. And trying to justify unjustified, you make other mistakes, and one lie brings the other lies. It is a shame to present your colleagues as naive. So, are they naive? Not to say another word. Did they not realize that I'm withdrawing the second paragraph and that the first paragraph is left? In fact, you have read - and that does not honour you, I say so and I am sorry and I honestly tell you - half the Minutes. Why did you hide the second paragraph? I testified her. Please, ladies and gentlemen, they are here. I've told it since the same Step. I think that's enough. You didn't even manage to win the impressions. Not even a few seconds of satisfaction and smile for specific persons who seem to be defending, but not satisfactory, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u268	No, you have no right, Mr. Constantopoulos. You're a special speaker. Let Mr. Loverdos say it. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I will just be a minute. I will raise two points.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u270	You answer Mr. Himara, not the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u271	I reply to the Minister, because the Minister answered me too. Mr Aygeakis, after you said what you said to us just now, after giving the clarification that nothing but the overrun is withdrawn, you heard - because the Minutes say that you were there by the end of the committee - five representatives of Parliament's delegations in Greece thank you very much for finally finding that you should withdraw these anti-constitutional provisions. Why didn't you, Mr. Ausgenakis, take the floor to explain that this is a misunderstanding? There was a misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, you had to say. I'm not withdrawing them. I'm withdrawing surplus. The Minutes you have just read to us do not answer that question. Also, my dear colleague, since we are very often listening to this story in the Greek Parliament, I would remind you, Mr President, that he is the only Minister of Finance in Greece over the last decade, which - from a time of time, not that he has made any terrible masturbation, I myself admit that I am a Parliamentary representative - handed over the public reserves against some billions more. So he's received it against something less than he's handed it over. It has not made any redundancies in the public sector and has never reduced, in any way, any pension. You have to tell us, my dear colleague, what methodology and evidence you have shown that the President of our parliamentary group has damaged our country. I would like you to answer me right now. Tell me what your evidence is and how it hurts her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u272	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u273	We're not doing that. You complained a moment ago. That's what's happening. That's why you're stalling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u275	The rapporteurs do not have the right to speak. Don't ask for the floor or the Greek Solution. Only the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u276	I take the floor now because you do not give the floor to Mr Constantopoulos. I've exhausted the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Mauritius, if he wants Mr. Skourlets to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u278	And since the Minutes are an undisputed witness of all of us, it appears from the Minutes that I made reference to Article 8(2), which was then withdrawn by Mr Augias and read his relevant phrase and also the relevant passage from the legislative improvements. So what he says I didn't say, that's exactly what I said. However, because it accuses the opposition, I would ask you very much to give the floor to our rapporteur, Mr Constantopoulos, for a minute, because he was here, he was put on our side at that time, and to tell you himself as a self-sufficient and eyewitness how he laughed at this House. The truth needs to be cleared up. The citizens who listen to us must understand. They hear "worldly surnames" on the one hand and on the other, but someone is right. And that's right. I ask you not to repeat the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u279	Otherwise, will Mr. Constantopoulos tell us? He'll tell us the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u280	I would ask you, Mr President, to give the floor for a minute to Mr Constantopoulos, because I will insist on and thus block the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u281	Then, Mr Loverdos, I must also give the floor to Mr Bouba, who is the rapporteur from the Greek Solution and Mr Moraitis. The MPs are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Constantopoulos was placed in November. Read his village. Please, just for that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u283	You know I'm friendly, that's why you're taking advantage of me. You have a minute, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, since I was the rapporteur and in that bill, I asked the Minister to remove the matter from the bill and specifically to delete the text on retrospective terms. I did not just ask for it, but other colleagues from all parties too. The Minister accepted it. This verse was removed. That's the reality. Now there was, of course, another point, in another paragraph, indirectly, the retroactiveness that remained as it was. It should also be mentioned there from now on. That's the truth. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for a minute to be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u286	I think this debate has not opened today. We have had this debate since the first meeting of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u287	And this morning it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u288	When I say it didn't open today, I meant this morning. So I want to say this. It is clear that the House has been deceived in the way that this whole process has progressed. It could have ended since November. However, the Minister has chosen a path which has completely brought the opposite results and - you will allow me to say - for the government and for the field of sport. I was intensified until yesterday to ask him, and I was telling him before we arrived today, to clarify exactly what is happening with retrospectiveness. He didn't make it clear, and today we see him here reading the Minutes. And we all know very well, because we have a legislative experience, how the legislative improvements are made - and it was the right example that has been mentioned before - and we have had this result. I think, Minister, and I ask you now, and I ask all the parties to do so, that it is a matter of retrospectiveness which, even now, you and all of us will have to take it back. There's nowhere. It creates a dead end in the field of sport. All the federations and all the representatives right now are across the street, and that cannot go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u290	I would just like to mention, Mr President, to my colleague earlier, because he is on personal grounds for our President in the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos. Listen, Mr. Colleague, because you said something about herbs. May Greece had invested in the herbs, in these new forms of cultivation, as did Mr. Kahrimanis in Metsovo with the flower of Darwin, which gives 5,000 euros per acre, with ELGA - "DIMITRA". Up to EUR 50,000 a kilo is sold. That's what herbs means. Or what Hippocrates said "your medicine your medicine and your food your medicine". So don't underestimate the herbs that the Greek Solution tells us to invest in these thousands of herbs we have in Greece. Secondly, as regards what you said about the epidemiologists and Mr Synthesis, we say what the World Health Organisation says. And you will allow me - because I am very well aware of the history of medicine in the viruses - to say this: First of all, Medicine will tell us what the virus is - which discovered them in 1935 at random in the mosaic of tobacco - whether they are infiltrating beings or whether they are intracellular parasites in a latent RNA-rDNA format with the reverse transcriptase as protein and then we will discuss anything. We say that the law should be applied to masks. We are therefore referring to the World Health Organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, I do not want the floor. Let my colleagues speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u294	Wait a minute. Ms. Sakorafa - who was celebrating today, not to ruin her grace! - he's got the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be very brief, because it is a matter that we have really exhausted in committee, but here in plenary too. I would like to ask the Minister a question, because it has been mentioned too many times. I would like him to explain to me whether he really has seen some sort of procedure throughout the public administration or elsewhere in the world if there is this issue of retrospectiveness in terms of terms. He also explains his obsession with the issue of age and discrepancy between those in the federations in general, but also those elected in the federation of disabled people. I really don't understand. I would very much like him to explain this obsession he has and, even at the last minute, does not change this provision so that we can all relax and go to the federations without any black spot. At the moment, Mr President, the fact is that all the sports world is talking about and saying is that all this is being done in view of the antiquities where intervention is to be made and 'to put our own faces'. That's the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u297	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I am really surprised. I have watched Mr. Loverdos since the morning have changed his position at least three - four times and Mr. Moraite say: 'I do not understand. Explain to us.’ You don't know how to read?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u299	I asked you to explain it at two meetings of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u300	Now, listen to me. Please very much, Mr. Moraite. Here we are all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Moraite, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u302	You, Mr. Loverdo, wait ten months to see what has been voted on? Ten months later, do you understand what has been voted on? And you, Mr. Moratis, have been waiting for the third, fourth day of the meeting, despite the explanations I have given to the committees, to explain to you? I explained one, I explained two. You just say you have nothing more to say and you've been trying so long, so many days, so many hours to create impressions. As for what Mrs Sacorafa asked, I have answered dozens of times. You don't want to understand. It's okay. But we as a party are extremely proud...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u303	Tell us about retrospectiveness. Where have you seen this? You invented it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u304	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u305	Please, Mrs. Sacorafa. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u306	Mrs Sacorafa, you have a gift to be disturbed by criticism. Mr. President, you will protect me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u307	That's what I said, you didn't interrupt her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u308	The Minister is being interrupted and instead of commenting to my colleague, you are making to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u309	That's where I made the observation. I guess you didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u310	I conclude by saying this: ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work because, at the moment, the Vice-Presidents seem to have no arguments and are trying to create impressions or to create issues where they do not exist. So it would be a good thing if you understood and, above all, read what we are doing. It cannot be ten months after you come to discuss a matter that has been voted on, it has come out of the relevant FEK and there are the Minutes, which you have carefully tried to read half of and half have passed quickly. Mr Moraite, I have explained to you fifteen times what exactly he says, what an interpretation we give, what exactly will happen. They all know that. That is why I have held dozens of meetings, discussions and with officials who consider themselves to be affected by this provision. And they know it very well. What can I tell you? I have no other way to explain. I think that the process must continue, we must listen to Members' positions, we must also run the procedures of the next legislators, which we have already made clear and which we have agreed. And we also have an issue which I shall be discussing next, not now, on SUPER LEAGUE 2, but on the subject of FIFA's letter. I'm putting down the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u311	Mr Kotsos has the floor from the beautiful Karditsa
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u312	It is true that great patience has taken place, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u313	You're right. Whatever you say, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u314	Dear Minister, when you shake down ponding waters and even long lagooning waters, which have been mistreated, it is true that you are raising resistance and opposition. After all, you know better than me that the power of inertia is enormous and requires courage and persuasion in order to overcome it. I have heard many of my fellow Members from Minority blaming the Olympians by saying they are working because they have expressed a view to supporting the bill. I join Mr. Loverdos's opinion. Greek Olympians, in addition to leading figures for our country, are Greek citizens, who have the right to speak, to speak, to speak, to intervene and, in particular, to an issue that concerns them and directly, for which they have given their blood, their soul, to eat endless tons of sweat and hours on the streets and have suffered the good and evils of our sporting building. But you were only left on that occasion. You don't have to comment on what they've said. You know, a lot of them make an alley impression. Someone said he was under constant war from his federation. Another is if you're not with the prisoners fighting you, they're hosting you. Another spoke of personal deals, of agreements under the table, of non-transparency in the finances of athletes, traffic, of terrorism, and the worst of all, a very heavy expression: "If you're not with us, we'll erase you overnight." How do you feel, ladies and gentlemen, about what you hear about what we hear from the Olympians? Are they honoring our sports structure? Are they punishing the sporting ideal? Are they honoring our democracy? Are they honoring our favoured state? This comes to change this bill, because it all starts with the logic - which had at least a few federation factors - that they have an ownership status with their federation, and that was because it allowed them the electoral system and the way in which the antiquities were made, to remain endless years and to control these procedures. This comes to do this bill, to change philosophy, to change the way and to democratise the whole story, the history of the elections, which we seem to be talking about manipulating races and sports events and we have or have had manipulation and electoral process. And how did that happen, colleagues? First of all, with the existence of unions - seals, the only advantage of having filed in the first court at some point, non-existent or non-existent involvement in competitions, and of course through an electoral system that no one knew until the last moment what the body of the chosen ones is, who are voting and who represent the unions. Should our state which finances this whole process, which finances sport, not because sport is a social phenomenon and we must protect it, highlight it, and above all show what it is: ideal, intervene? So clear up to the unions. Amateur Union register or not. Not only do I sign up for the record, but I also have a racing presence. Because the union's word is to have athletes and to participate in the events of either the association concerned or the federation concerned. And when he has the right to vote this club - since he is registered in the club register, he also participates in games - to vote on behalf of his board of directors and not on behalf of anyone who could have been registered as a member of the club on the last day only to get the proxy from those who would like to vote on it. Doesn't that make sense? Isn't it in the right direction? Shouldn't today's or even yesterday's, I'd say, Minister of Sports? It has to break this abscess, because when people who have experienced sport, who have experienced it, who have been glorified, speak with such expressions, you understand that something is not going well in the Kingdom of Danimarky, something that does not honor us. In fact, when they say: 'We should finally swim in clean waters' and let it be understood that there are dirty waters in this process, should we not listen to them? Shouldn't we plead? Shouldn't we change this process? I, my dear colleague, am against quotas, because I believe that all Greek citizens have the same rights, the same obligations and the same right to participate in elections. Women and men are not a disabled electorate. We saw this phenomenon how it worked in local government when the candidate mayors ran to complete the quota and I had the right of women to participate in the elections, to gather what they found to move just to get a signature. And since the Government of New Democracy is a government of consistency and continuity, we are coming as a follow-up to the Macolin Convention which we voted on in November, to establish the national platform for the issue of racing manipulation, so that the relevant bodies can be informed of what problems we have. And since we are talking about racing manipulation, and because of factors involved, referees are involved, athletes are involved, I think it is a one-way, Minister, to separate the arbitrators completely from the federations so that there is no control, so that there is no dependency, so that situations do not just arise for personal elevation. It will be a good step which I think you should adopt. And I should like to make one final point, firstly, for the coaches we need to know who they are and have the scientific adequacy to continue this process and not to make the interruption of sport, training, teaching and sports preparation subjected to empirical, but to scientists. That is why the register of coaches is right. In this direction, too, the register of sports facilities is right, and I would remind you once again, because I also told the committee that in school sport where consciences and conditions are created, for sporting careers, for sporting activities, for integrating the sporting ideal, it is incomprehensible to build schools without closed gyms. Minister, you are receiving reactions because you are stirring up a mighty system and you will need a nerve and you will need a string and you will also need confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has this and we will pass the bill. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Kotso. I've heard this through arbitration for years. We live in New Democracy, we live in Yannina, and the floor is Mr. George Amyras. In other words, "We stay Greece", to relax you a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. That's right, we stay Greece, we stay Yanna and there's nothing better. And of course you are friendly, as you said, and so it has an interest that we can exchange arguments within the Chamber and get away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u317	Thank you. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u318	However, I cannot comment on two or three things. First of all, we heard a little earlier SYRIZA MP Rallia Christidou calling "for silk ribbon" the country's defence equipment. One would say that after she said so, perhaps we should not pay particular attention, since she has not understood the national risks that surround us. On the other hand, I cannot comment on the fact that thankfully last July the Greek people wisely chose Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the country's Prime Minister and New Democracy for their governance, because you imagine with such open fronts, the koron virus, the Turks, the problems of international recession in the economies of all countries, we had SYRIZA in the government. But of course we haven't and we won't, as you can see, for too many years. Now, my dear, Mr Moraite, you have accused the Minister of political deception. Looks like you really like that word and that term. I would remind you that in 2017, in a tweet you wrote: “The SYRIZA government is the greatest political fraud in post-multiple”. And that's where you're a SYRIZA MEP now. It would be interesting if Mr. Skourletis was here sitting a series next to you, to see how he feels to have someone next to him who called him a political con. Also, let me say one more thing. He said Mr. Bubas from the Greek Herbs Solution, and I agree with him. He's right. No one underestimates the value of Greek land and of Greek herbs. It's part of our country's goodwill. And we in Yannina and Darwin's flower cultivate and try to protect the mountains from the illegal invaders that take out these flowers. And of course the earth clearly gives young people the means to develop their lives with a stable income and love for their land. So I'm coming to the sports bill now. Of course, we were expecting reactions, as things changed. We have ruined the soup of some established ideas and some established situations that, for years all of which I would say, have been stifling by the dynamism of Greek sport, not all of them, but some of them. If they were to tell me about this bill, I would say that the basis of this bill is that it takes into account that sport is the most noble and safest way of self-consciousness and self-regulatoryness of a man and especially of a young man. Values, ideals, goals, speeches, friendship, social courtesy, are things that sport gives you. I'm the one with sport. I'm the one who's the one who's on the track. I was a runner. I did a thousand five hundred and five thousand yards in three groups. So those of us who have systematically dealt with sport understand the good of sport, but also the difficulties. The difficulty was, in fact, one, that the state had been involved and had never been involved in what it had to do, that is, supporting athletes. In some federations, in some unions, in some associations, in some clubs, we saw all the fight being made for the power of certain factors that considered themselves the sacred cow of their union or federation and not the athletes themselves. So that's what's changed. It's all changing. The core of sport now is athletes. This draft law makes this reform. If anyone were to ask me what exactly this bill is doing, I'd say that to him, that at last he's dealing with the athlete and not with the factor. And close to the athlete, he works and helps the parents of the athletes, the accompanying students with disabilities, which is very important that so far had the role of the trustee. Now we finally have an incision. We have a clearing of the situation, so that the administrations of federations, clubs, groups, etc., can move with transparency and respect to their work. Respect for their work is to help athletes move forward. Sports, therefore, for all, culture, education, mental health. These are the main features of this draft law. So the thread from No.4639 of November, which we voted on last November, is being updated and ratified by the McColin Convention on dealing with racing manipulation and the urgent measures we took at the time to deal with violence in sports spaces. Ladies and gentlemen, do we want to see or not? And what's the self-evident thing? The self-evident thing is that we have incomprehensible archaeology in the unions. No more pre-industrial and craftsmen's permits and a package of authorizations were issued and father's air presidents came out. Also, this bill does something very important, it finally strengthens the Paralympic movement. It also brings the online register of unions and coaches. Should we not know whether the associations that exist, the coaches working in various groups, have the necessary certifications, are legal, are they taking the legal path? It also enables active athletes, if they want it, and on conditions, of course, to train at the same time. It enables and opportunities for disabled athletes, to evolve, to move forward. For the last six to seven years I have been a Member of Parliament, I have never heard anyone deal with disabled athletes. Finally the party cord and the shadows that connected some of the sports spaces with other spaces are cut off. Yeah, I'm telling you, we want the self-evident thing. Our athletes are buzzing it. We heard it from our Olympics, the world champions, who saw a light, saw a breath and they say "at last, sport should be done for athletes, for parents, for the people that follow, who participate, who see sport and not just for some of the players". Sports for everyone with transparency in the mechanisms, with respect for athletes, parents and, of course, the executives and actors in the area. Support for the paralympic movement. That's self-evident. So I urge you to support this self-evident thing, because otherwise you will find yourself on the wrong side of history again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u320	First of all, I'd like to deposit one more paper, dear Loverdo. You know, lies have short feet. Be careful, because this whole story is interesting. Don't laugh, though through the mask I understand. Look out, 14: 57 ́, just three minutes three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u321	Today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u322	No, November. For November, you haven't eaten for so long? Because, then, you eat, sit down and listen to them. The RES understood. Didn't you understand? The AIA understood and published the following: ‘The withdrawal of Article 2(8) of the sports bill does not mean that the Deputy Minister of Sports Leuteris Austrias retreats the question of taking account of previous terms to the limit of three permitted terms for the Presidents of sports federations and both terms for executive members of the boards. As they specify the sources of the Ministry, the wording of paragraph 1 of that Article covers the issue of retroactiveness and makes it unnecessary to clarify Article 2 on which SYRIZA had objected to anti-constitutionality.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Loverdos, the abbreviation got it. You still?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u324	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. Is Mrs Sakorafa also in favour of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u325	I'm not done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u326	Do we have any more?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u327	I have tabled the legislative improvements which I have already mentioned in my position. I have to read very briefly. I regret, Mr Colleague, that it is a procedure that I have to follow, so that we are not told ten months later that you have not said so well and have not said so well. We add to the list of exceptions to sports in which athletes over thirty-five years can be members of unions and administrations. Mr. Loverdo, I'm going to be late because I have to read them. After ten months...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u328	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u329	Please don't have a dialogue. Say what you want to say. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, after ten months they have remembered and read half the Minutes. Now they'll be read all over slowly. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, because we have lived through this, and do not live again ten months later. We add, therefore, to the list of exemptions for sports in which athletes over thirty-five years can also be members of clubs and administrations in fencing and sports fishing, satisfying consistent requests from the respective bodies. In Nos 2 and 3, legislative improvements, to clarify a ambiguity: With this legislative improvement we also count the year of the execution of the antiquities in two of the three years in which the proof of racing is required. I explained it very thoroughly in my prototype. With regard to the number 4 legislative improvement, following a series of requests, including by athletes and by the AIF itself, and following international practice, the right to participate and vote for active athletes in the administrations of the federations is granted. On number 5 to 8, we are satisfied with a request which was made unanimously, and during the hearing of sporters with disabilities, for the same age limits as those applicable to the federations belonging to the AIF, in which it is only in the context of full harmonisation and costing to the current ILO Charter, the International Olympic Federation, which is seventy years. Let's go below, on 9 to 14: We agree with a unanimous request submitted by the operators of the Paralympic Sport Movement. The representation of the NEMOs in the EIA administration is formed to represent all the categories of disability covered by the International Paralympic Committee. Let's go to number 16. The ESRB shall carry out sampling within the design at the request of private operators without receiving compensation for operating costs. This provision covers the costs of equipment, sampling and equipment of consumables charged with the budget of the General Secretariat of Sports. Let's go 13 to 21. To remove doubts and operational difficulties, sports associations are included in the provision on the timing of the antiquities. Let's go to 23. It is precisely what years are taken into account for the club's required racing activity, even if due to the exceptional circumstances of COVID -19 antiquities take place within the first two months of 2021. Let's go from 25 to 26. It seeks to remove the injustices that have arisen from the fact that distinguished athletes - students cannot enjoy the privileges of their discernment because one of the competing unions did not bring the sporting special recognition. The other legislative improvements are technical. I would ask that if they have not been distributed, they should be distributed to colleagues. I'm going on two other issues. Excuse me, but I won't let anything fall down. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait a minute, Mr. Synergy. There's no such thing. Now we're going to restructuring.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u331	...time you haven't put.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u332	He has the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u333	Yes, Mr. Symphony, I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. We're going to restructure. Ladies and gentlemen, you are fucked, and I am talking about Mera25. You have tried to table an amendment and to create impressions, to serve popularly a part of the players in football who approached it and we know who, where, etc., what you said and what you promised, etc. Do you know that yesterday he had the official body of SUPER LEAGUE 2, FOTBALL LEAGUE? I guess not. So he had a meeting and he also made a announcement. You know what he's saying? The proclamation of the Super League 2 season 2020-2021 was approved and was sent to the NCA for final approval. I'm going a little further. "The SUPER LEAGUE 2 championship for the 2020-2021 season will be held in fourteen teams, and then we ask for a direct meeting with you to discuss the organization's proposals aimed at upgrading the championship." What were we talking about from the first moment? That we, gentlemen, are institutional, and I even said features that - let me say 'we are not socks'. So I had told many colleagues hundreds of times. We are not going to act in the absence of the institution, namely the organising authority, which is SUPER LEAGUE 2, FOTBALL LEAGUE, which we have observed, as we have done for SUPER LEAGUE 1, basketball and other competitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u334	Come on, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u335	Don't rush, Mrs. Sacorafa. I saw you. I'm not finished yet. Allow me! What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u336	Time's up. You're not done, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u337	I'm sorry, I'm not gonna do you a favor to interrupt, I'm gonna finish, because they have to be written in the Minutes. Don't say ten months later that you didn't understand, because that's how much it takes you to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u338	Please, not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u339	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u340	I continue to present this letter in the Minutes, to share with colleagues who have been inquiring and convicted of amendments and impressions, and to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that it has not been kept secret - we have announced it - that tomorrow morning the time remains to be set, we have locked to meet with a delegation from the organizer of SUPER LEAGUE 2, FOTBALL LEAGUE to discuss matters following the decision we took yesterday. In other words, yesterday they met, they sent the letter yesterday, they decided, we legislate today and we will be together tomorrow. I'm presenting to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Gentlemen, things are very clear here. We operate in the institutions. Let's go to the last thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u341	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u342	Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u343	No, there's plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u344	What you're doing, you don't have the right to do it. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u345	I've got a delivery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u346	We are now going on the subject of FIFA's letter. Dear Mr. Loverdo, you invoked her this morning, and if I am not cheating, and a colleague from SYRIZA. We got her. We read it very carefully. We're working together excellently. When we say it perfectly, we mean it. And because for everything we do, I submit to the minutes the letter from my head of office who has left to UEFA on the subject of this provision. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Eleftherios Aeggeakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] But you will allow me to say this. We decided as a government in cooperation with UEFA to postpone the organisation. It's very interesting and our country would have a lot of visibility, by the way. I am referring to the organisation that was on the same date that they wanted to hold elections for the draw-up of CHAMPIONS LEAGUE groups. We said that it should not be done, because we are seeing an outbreak of the coronary, and that is why we must be extremely careful. We did it. Of course at a cost. Bad lies would be interesting for Greece to be projected. At the same time, we made a decision - you know, we have included it in the improvement provisions that we had at the beginning of our debate in the committee - and we gave another month and a half a month, that is, from the beginning of November to 15 February, to hold the elections and the nine sports federations in our country with a frequency such that there is no co-existence and that there is not much tension. Three and a half months for forty-nine federations so as not to have the so-called blockage. In fact, we added a provision that I know of in the Change Movement, if I remember. Don't question it and I'm looking for the Minutes. 'At the same time, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We have put a test, and we say, since a decision is taken at the General Assembly at the same time that this problem is not a joke. We can't get past it either. That is why we have done this. There is no special treatment. There is no special regime. We have forty-nine sports federations in our country. We are dealing with them uniformly with full respect for the rules and, above all, the statutes of the international federations to which they belong. We are in open cooperation and communication with FIFA and UEFA. That is why I would remind you that about seven months ago, the Prime Minister of our country itself signed a memorandum of cooperation with the President of UEFA and the Vice-President of FIFA. We fully respect what has been signed by the Prime Minister of the country. Of course, as you already know - but I say this again in this Chamber - the end of the month will receive the final study promised to be ready in three months. More months have passed because of developments. We understand that. We're accepting it. Then, of course, there will probably also be issues that we will need to incorporate in our legal arsenal. That is why I am telling you clearly that we are very careful, very consistent and, above all, in absolute cooperation and consultation with FIFA, UEFA, the ILO and all the international federations of all sports because we are interested in Greece going forward and not staying in a standstill, trapped. Do not hide behind the various terrains invoked by various people. Unfortunately, you did so today, too. But all right, we're going through it because we appreciate you and we have to go ahead and Parliament too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u349	Wait a minute. Mrs. Sacorafa precedes. Minister, please, because we will have more to do then, to keep the time, because the Rules of Procedure also exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u350	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u351	Do you have a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u352	I'm obviously in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u353	Tell me. What can we do? He didn't keep up with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u354	You're not a trekker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u355	You are right to get upset, but ten times he said to me 'you have no right'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u356	You are there to keep the procedure, but you do not follow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u357	Do you want me to take him away from him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u358	Of course, if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u359	It's easy to say down there. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, I will try to be very brief. Of course, the Minister has a right at any time to ask why he should be taken. He can talk. But he can't do half an hour's placements. You know that very well, too, as President and I, because we are presiding. The Minister for giving us some legislative improvements, I would expect him to explain some things about legislative improvements and not some amendments. It is not at all obliged to analyse amendments tabled by the parties. All he can do is say whether he accepts them or does not accept them, as is usually done by all the ministers. I would like to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u361	Is he gonna have to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u362	Of course they will have to respond, because all the Members in this House must know because we are going to vote. So we can't be called foolish or stupid again because we don't understand. In the number five legislative improvement in the fourth subparagraph of Article 6(7), after the word seventy, the first word shall be deleted. I want the Minister to explain exactly what he says. Does it further reduce the age limit of the candidates for the federal presidency? I want him to tell me if this has anything to do with the upcoming elections, because he's lowering it and taking pictures of a particular person or some particular person at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Loverdos should also speak and then answer, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u364	Let's start with the good news he gave us on the issues related to the CHAMPIONS LEAGUE draw-up event. In conclusion, we will play at CHAMPIONS LEAGUE. We're locked up with Omonia. It's good to go all the way here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u365	And PAOK will play.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u366	I hope PAOK too. She was very good. Good manipulation. Only because you spoke of federations and elections, it is important that you listen to Mr Constantopoulos and adopt the letter vote. This morning when I left the Chamber and went to the Conference of Presidents, with Mr Tasoula's suggestion, we adopted the letter of vote, and indeed with a proposal made by Mrs Gerovasili to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are applied as best as possible, until we change the Rules of Procedure in the next few days to predict the difficult circumstances that may come in the coming months. So the schizophrenic vote is also being introduced here to deal with COVID -19. It can't be done in the federations not to establish itself. Our proposal is positive. To adopt it. One of the prisoners. Two. For the letter of the Deputy Secretary-General FIFA and UEFA, he shall not respond. He says they have good relationships. We know the memorial from the Gerapetrius. We know that. The fact that we have good relations is not an answer to the last paragraph of the letter that tells him that if that is what we are told, you are in danger of leaving the event. That is the question, Mr President. It's not all right. Third and last. I'm not coming back anymore. It is obvious that the Minister is destabilized, asking every little bit of something to say if he has any effect on his own reason. He read us now from the Athenian Agency. He came out of the Chamber and gave the Athenian Agency the news and proves he was consciously mocking the MPs. He made fun of the MPs here and went out and said other things. He showed, therefore, that he did not retreat and that he was mocking the House and the parties. Instead of taking this into account as his own argument, he carries it in his favour. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u368	Please, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u369	I think I am the only parliamentary representative of today's debate that I have not exhausted the time. I will only speak for two minutes to close this debate, for colleagues to speak, for the bill to be finalised. Here we hear from the opposition about the government's unstable arguments, but we see an unstable position expressed by opposition parties since this morning. The issue of unconstitutionality has been raised, and we have all agreed, Mr Loverdos. You will allow me to say that until the elections we were taking lessons of Constitutional Law and the interpretation of the Constitution from Evangelos Venizelos. After the election, we take from you. We would therefore like you to make it easier for us to agree on these issues. We said that unconstitutionality is not judged within Ethiopia and it is good that we do not have any assurances that the law will be judged unconstitutional by Greek justice even for retrospectiveness. And we agreed here that we cannot prejudge decisions of justice. After the administrative acts, when these are issued and if there are appeals, we will see who will be vindicated. In practice, that is. But if, in fact, you believe in the intensity you attach to today's debate - not you personally, all the opposition parties - and, indeed, today, we have troubled the process in one way, why have you not tabled a request for a roll-call vote? You or another party should put Members before their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u370	Don't challenge us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u371	Please. Let him go, don't interrupt him. Finish it, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u372	In any case, I do not want to divert the debate. But constantly creating the impression unilaterally that we are sure how to walk and how to judge a law that is being discussed today and now is being passed, let me tell you by closing this two-minute period that there are not so many certaintys in politics in particular. And let's not be so sure. In any case, Mr President, we have not indicated any such intention. Other parties expressed such intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u373	Thank you very much. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Code of Digital Governance (Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and Directive (EU) 2019/1024) - Electronic Communications Code (Integration into Greek Law of Directive (EU) 2018/172) and other provisions’. And we're going to the next speaker from the Greek Solution, Mrs. Sofia Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, on legislative improvements we have to ask a few questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Skourletis, your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u376	Mrs Sakorafa is a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u377	Oh, well, did you see? We're getting there. Until Mrs Asmakopoulou comes to Step, Mr Moraitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u378	I want to ask the Minister about the sixth legislative improvement. You go from seventy-one years to seventy. I have a question, honestly: is that what you're bringing to nothing but five? Secondly, what I understand at first glance is this: it is a specific photograph and we are entitled to what we say three days in this Chamber and in the committee, that this bill is an integrated intervention in the field of sport, and that the question is raised, Minister, whether you want to make a new hug. It's a clear question. But I want an answer. It's a specific photo for a certain executive with a long history in the field of sport, and that's why it's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u379	And why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u380	I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u381	And will the Minister answer now who is he? There's no way. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u382	I studied a topographer, not a photographer. That's enough with the photos and a lot of it for you. What I have tabled - and I said this in the morning in my position - is the result of all the debates that have been made by the institutions and we have it quite clearly. I mean, really, I can't understand today... I mean, the agencies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u383	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u384	Your own bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, please protect me. That's not a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u386	You're welcome. Mr. Moraite, he's right. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u387	I would remind you, therefore, that one of the requests that exist and in writing in the emails of all Members of the Committee on Education - members of the Committee on Culture - I do not know whether it has gone to the other Members, but certainly to the members of the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media - which have been tabled by the Paralympians and members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media - is an absolute harmonisation at an age with the members of the ILO by extension. The maximum age for ILO members is seventy. That's what's been filed. Please refer to the minutes of your own positions, to the minutes of the Committee on Forumsical Affairs, to the fact that you have told me that the Government must comply with the suggestions and suggestions made by the athletes of AMEs, because'so, so, a series of documentation. We said 'yes, we accept them' and we acted. Legislative improvements are neither in five nor one. For all of this, I have spoken from the Step - please go back to the Minutes, good month - and I have nothing more to take pictures of. That's enough of the photos. Whole album we've filled these days here. All photos! In fact, someone said he had names and addresses. Get them, guys, let's get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since antiquity the Greeks have believed that physical health is the basis of mentality. The contents of the phrase 'healthy in the body' remain always timeless and up-to-date. We must not forget, however, its deepest meaning, which is no more than that man is not just a unit, but a moral entity. Only through sport can balanced growth be achieved between the body and the spirit of the individual. We are talking about all this in order to highlight its importance, but also something else, to highlight the particular attention that we have to face with him, which we do not see today in the draft legislation being passed. The level of sport in a country is also an indicator of its culture. We are talking about sport, which embodies the Olympic ideal and is not based on a variety of other purposes. In conclusion, since during the debate here in committee we have analysed the individual articles, we notice that many photographic provisions, appointments, decisions by the Minister responsible for sport, exemptions at once, creation of individual posts, without any substantial offers from which sport needs to be made. Sport itself is based on rules. In the present case, however, where, for example, no upper limit on allowances, expenses, travel, etc. is set. In the case of committee members, immunity is clearly cultivated rather than the measure and the control which sport teaches us about. They do not have vague powers when it comes to public money by Greek taxpayers. A regulation that we have put forward and we still express our reservations is about the benefits to distinguished athletes. This is because, of course, athletes, who have managed to distinguish themselves in their sport in the context of equal treatment, must be supported, but this support must be given to the schools which are related to their subject matter. How can they be introduced into any schools and even high-level schools without the preparation required for them? It's kind of a oxymomile. Coach schools, by decision of the General Secretariat of Sports, give us great concern. This concern lies in the possible downgrading of physical education and sport departments of the HEIs. About the Hellenic Olympic Committee and the amendments to its statutes, the complete sloppyness, everything in an article. Particular attention should be paid to the possibility of partnerships with NGOs to achieve its objectives. With regard to the provisions on disabled people, as we have pointed out in committee, we consider that they do not primarily serve their own interests and care for these athletes - agonists is less than modest. What to say about sports facilities, which are most devastated. At the modern time when sport has evolved into a social activity and embraces a very important part of the citizens, it goes without saying that every favoured and democratic state must ensure their constitutionally guaranteed rights, without exceptions and exclusions, to all its citizens. Among those guaranteed rights of all Greeks and Greek citizens a distinct position holds the social good of sport. It is obvious that the main feature of the sporting ideal, the speech, is unacceptable to be destroyed by degeneration phenomena, which are unfortunately observed. For us in the Greek Solution, the cultivation and dissemination of the sporting spirit are constant pursuits as a shield against the dangerous challenges of the era. The practical support of sport is a state's self-evident obligation. We finally want to see sport free of its negative partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mrs Ahmakopoulou, and thank you for keeping time. There is now a reason for Mrs Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill, I too wanted to point out from this step, because our regions in western Greece, Achaea, are affected by this terrible bad weather, that all our fellow citizens must be very careful and diligent in obeying the guidelines of civil protection, in order to overcome this great difficulty, which unfortunately has come to us at this time. I renounce, Minister, the title of the sports expert. I imagine that many more colleagues here are not so special. It is characteristic that many women colleagues have not taken the floor today. I shall simply speak with the logic of the bill that we have studied and which we are considering today. I will speak as a mother, as a Member of Parliament, as a sportsman and as a man, who regularly communicates with the people of sport in my constituency mainly in Achaea. In the current period, with the particular conditions prevailing because of the pandemic that students were forced to start an unusual school year, the soundness and well-being offered by sport combine key with maintaining the mental equilibrium of our children. Only in order for sport to provide all of this, and especially amateurs, unions and associations thereof, must have appropriate organisation, certification by the state for their adequacy, benefits for distinguished athletes and strengthening their functioning and democratisation. This is provided in full by the bill, which the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis and the Deputy Minister of Sports Mr.Aegeanakis have today brought to plenary for discussion and vote. Simple, simple proof of the above comes from the broad acceptance of the draft law by the athletes themselves and most of the seven hundred comments and a thousand five hundred comments in the prior public consultation. For example, the Association of Greek Paralympics, the Association of Greek Olympians and the Federation of Greek Basketballists with Amaxias expressed themselves only positively. The top Greek athletes support the bill, unless the opinion of the members of the public is supported. Korakakis, Kaklamanakis, Petrounia, Vadeki, the huge Mygiaki has no meaning. In addition, many of the comments and suggestions made during the consultation, Mr.Augias, incorporated them in the bill even yesterday after hearing the bodies. The representation of four instead of five from the Greek Paralympic Committee of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee of Greece, which came from EOMOSE to the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee. The six-month period for the receipt by associations of special sporting recognition. The introduction without examinations based on the performance of athletes in 2019 and 2021. Of course, the extension until 15-2-2021 of the terms of the terms and any other statutes of sports associations, as is the case with the sports federations. We have said this before: we have a government which has tense antennas and is whining up the society. This, ladies and gentlemen, is called good legislature. The analysis of the draft law was carried out with absolute clarity by both the State Secretary and the rapporteurs. Allow me only one experimental reference to the main points of view. Question: Should sports clubs operate democratically? Answer: Yes, you must. With the personal presence of members at the general meetings, with the participation of leading athletes in their boards, with the single ballot for candidate presidents and advisors and with the presence of a lawyer as president of the logistical antiquity this is guaranteed. Should there be clubs - seals which serve only the sealer? Clearly, no. The clubs must now have a special athletic recognition, be registered in the General Secretariat of Sports Register and carry out a real sporting activity. Otherwise, they do not have the right to participate and vote in the respective associations of each sport. Ghost unions end today. This is called democratisation and transparency. Do small unions, especially in the province, have to be facilitated by the state in finding coach? Of course I do. The notion of athlete-trainer, which is introduced, facilitates the active athlete to be at the same time coach in a different category. For example, the basketballist of Prometheus Patras or Apollo Patras can train players of his club’s youth group or any other club. Small children will be able to train by their indulgences and the new generation of coaches will also be prepared. In addition, for shooting and archery, sports that do not provide special economic gains, but are supported by people with passion, the instructor for small or remote clubs, the leading ex-sporter, who offers his knowledge unfavorably to the younger generation, is institutionalized. Just consider how many Korakakis would we have had if such a provision had been applied since the day before. Today's bill also restores injustices for decades. Exceptional athletes - students in team sports will not lose the right to admission to TEFAs due to the transfer to another high school. Masquerading athletes, who are struggling for disabled people will now receive proper recognition, as without them the successes of our athletes with disabilities would simply not exist. That's called justice. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I should not be able to mention the implementation of the National Platform against the manipulation of sports games, the staging games, as they are commonly called, as this relates to the ethical dimension of sport. It is a huge reform because with systematic control we will know that what we see within the four lines of the field is the result of noble speech alone. However, your rapporteur, although he said he was in agreement with this provision, cannot vote in principle on the draft law on allegedly contains anachronistic provisions. Do you know what this is called, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Hypocrisy. Those who vote for this draft law choose to be on the right side of history for the benefit of the entire sporting family. We, as a New Democracy, vote for it because we like this side. After all, we are used to being on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. We live in Achaea and New Democracy. Mr Iason Foilas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Like the previous one, I am not an expert on sport's trade unions, but I know how to read and write. I really am surprised that we've lived something unprecedented today. We saw in the Chamber Members requesting the withdrawal of a provision, which in the same Chamber a few months ago was congratulating the Minister. Do you understand? No one party has changed from what we voted in November and what comes today in this provision - nor a party - and for which you congratulated the Minister in November, is fascist and unconstitutional. Speaking of sport, ladies and gentlemen, you have lost the ball. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, let's say some truths. I guess I'll tell them. You will listen to them, because you do not have the best relationships with the truth. You have an intolerance. Almost five years you've been in power. What did you do about sport? Which of the time-consuming pathogens of sport did you give solutions? What have you contributed to the legislative level to change something in what we all agree is the burdens of sport? Nothing. Did you give solutions to the phenomena of violence on the stadiums? On the contrary, violence on the stadiums over your days has resurrected to a point where the guns have entered the field. Did you solve the long-term problem of life-long federations, which have for decades prevented new blood and fresh ideas from entering the country's sports planning? Not only did you not provide solutions, but you have made sure by your bill that you have another sixteen years in the new administrations. Because if the bill is not changed today, it means that in the next sixteen years we will have one of the same. You had all the time - in particular, five years - to change something. But you didn't have the will. You came to the fresh, the new, and you left as the best representatives of the middle ages. Then came the Government of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, who promised reforms and changes. From the first, already, time, in the midst of a pandemic, makes them reality, in all areas, and in sport. A minister, who has been drawing strength from his political leader, the Prime Minister, has at last not hesitated to clash with certain syndicated interests well, for years. Finally, a minister who did not hesitate to take the spoon from the classrooms of sport union and enable young people to get into things and take the country's sport forward and above. The beginning took place last November. Today, the follow-up comes. There's gonna be more coming along. If anyone wonders, where did Ausgeus find the power to make such a revolution, the answer is simple: The power gave it to him, as I said, obviously, the Prime Minister. The power, however, is mainly given to him by the vast majority of people who are closest to sport and stand by it. Sportsmen give it to him, from the first amateur to the last Olympian. So, today, we see provisions that no one before brought them, even though most of them are moving in the sphere of self-evident. Is it not self-evident to limit the factors that each sport uses as a tool to gain weight in society and not to serve the sport itself and the athletes? Is it not self-evident that anyone should not vote in a prosecuting sports club elections and that each member should be in the General Assembly in person by just one vote? Is it not obvious for the sake of transparency of the antiquities that the list with its members, who have the right to participate and vote 10 days before the General Assembly, will be drawn up and published by the board of directors of the association? Isn't it self-evident to record only active amateur clubs that fulfil the legal conditions in the General Secretariat of Sports Registry so that they can vote only now? We do not want the parents, the athletes, to know what unions are recognised? Isn't it all self-evident? Obviously, they are not so self-evident for you, because otherwise you would have done so for five years when you were in power. I'm on it. Do we not want athletes to be involved in the boards of federations with the right to speak? For years it was considered self-evident, but no one did. At last, it's happening. Do we not want athletes to have the right to practice as well as sports? Isn't it beautiful and important that a kid learns from his model? A self-evident change is not the possibility of receiving administrative tasks from Olympians, Paralympians, champions if they want to? Isn't it self-evident the platform for tracking the scheduled matches? Is it self-evident, but is it not at the same time a fair change in line with the principles of sport representation in the eleven-member plenary session of the Administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee of individual bodies? Is it self-evident, finally, not the support of accompanying athletes and, in general, of AME sport, as we do? Colleagues of the Officerate, you are so, but so few and, above all, unlike the needs of the time and the timing. You have become the Opposition of the cucumber and the 'Passengers' to the critical national issues. You don't have to tell the polls that you're discredited to public opinion. Most people understand that you are inferior to the circumstances and are glad to say that we are happy to have this government at such a difficult time, Mr Mitsotakis. I close with this: ladies and gentlemen, Minister, tonight the sports menu has an omelet, because at last a minister broke eggs! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u394	Thank you too, Mr Fotella, for the time. You kept your word. We will remain in the New Democracy. Two spokesmen of SYRIZA have left, Mr. Burnus and Mr. Barkas. Mr Dionysios Akippis, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u396	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u397	I, too, wish that the extreme weather phenomenon, which is now close to Zakynthos and Kefalonia, will pass as painlessly as possible. I wish everything would be all right. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill introduces many important areas of sport in our country. We all have to recognise the fact that this bill, in the context of and during the exhaustive consultation, which took place, received a large number of positive comments from all the Olympics, the Paralympics, amateur athletes and, of course, from parents now, who will have a full picture of the legal and active unions chosen for their children. It is a draft law that completes sporting reform, which the New Democracy Government started last November with Law 4639/2019, which provided for the introduction of age limits, federal administration terms and then the introduction of changes to the blockades of election. This legislation gives answers and solutions to solid societal demands, such as the need for homes, order and transparency in the field of sport. It renews and refreshs sport, highlighting its healthy powers, which have the potential to provide substantially for its development. It is no coincidence, moreover, that all sports actors welcome the conditions laid down for the process of elections to the federations and the expectations created for serious renewal in the administrations of the federations, in conjunction with the provisions on the limits of birth and age on the administrative boards which passed last November. They see that the country's amateur sport is changing for the coming years, whose development is a commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. At this point, let me ask you directly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who, without any real reason, are voting against this draft law at first: in the four and a half years that you had the power, why did you not give your own solutions to the chronological issues of sport, which, from the point of view of consultation, was a major one for Greek society? Why do you show so intensely against a piece of legislation that comes to regulate matters that you should have arranged for years? Let me ask you, of course, this: do you like the image - those of us from the province have a better picture, because we see it in front of us - when we have elections either of the local federations of sports clubs to come in front of some guys who gather the seals of unions and, from there on, there are other guys who have come from Athens? You realize how the seals gather. Do you want to continue with this or did you not know about it in your day and now we have seen it and we are going to solve it? In fact, it is important to say that everyone is aware that during the process of drafting this bill many of the comments made by the institutions have not only been taken into account, but have been incorporated into the bill. For example, to refer to Article 8, as well as Article 28(8) and (9). This bill is therefore essentially a disgrace to society, which is constantly calling for reforms in the field of sport. As far as the issue of state grants is concerned, you are accusing us, gentlemen, of cutting down by 13% this year's grants when you, during your administration, have cut by 100% the already budgeted 2.3 million, the institutionalized premiums for their champions and coaches for 2017. It should therefore be heard that the present government is seeking to house the sports landscape and putting a definitive end to immunity. At the same time, it provides practical support for amateur sport, giving the clubs, after 12 years, a direct grant of EUR 12 million for their direct support, which will be distributed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in the coming weeks, with absolute transparency and, above all, with criteria specifically, which will not be called into question by nowhere. We also introduce significant tax and other development incentives, for example by reducing the VAT on fan tickets, reducing the taxation of contracted athletes and coaches, encouraging further sponsorships and donations. In addition, we are seeking to multiply sports spaces, as the Minister said earlier in his speech, since Article 25 provides for the necessary arrangements for the placement of air-supported dome in municipal and public open spaces for the housing of sports activities. At the same time, this new draft law encourages new forces to participate in the overall effort to modernise sport. Significant areas are introduced around the processes of antiquities, but also the general meetings of sports organisations, the strong representation of the Paralympic Movement, the modernisation of the status of coaches and distinguished athletes, the treatment of manipulation of matches, the authorisations of sports establishments, and other important reforms are carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the particular care taken through the regulations of this draft law on the effective and practical strengthening of the sporting of people with disabilities. Therefore, after many years, a framework of reward in the form of benefits for exceptional discriminatory and irresponsible athletes accompanied by AMEA is being established. We see here that there is a huge concern for this movement as well. We ensure the fairest and most in accordance with the principles of sport representation in the plenary session of the management of the Greek Paralympic Committee of the individual bodies and the paralympics. At the same time, care is taken to facilitate the launching of a new federation for people who confessly give their own battle, and we are next to them and determined to support them. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the government today brings a draft law to the vote, which seeks to renew, transparent and household sport in Greece. The government remains faithful to its election announcements and has consistently moved on to sports reform, which gives substantial solutions and settles problems and loose ends that have remained ponding for many years, but no one has dared to legislate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u398	We are also grateful, Mr Apepi, for the time being. Mr Constantine Blouchos has the floor from New Democracy and the beautiful Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the dimensions of the present have been fully analysed by both the Minister and the rapporteur, and in the absence of time, I will confine myself to a minimalist, inadequacy and an editorial comment. In summary, therefore, simple and single invoicing in the social good and hymnology simply satisfy you, as if you were admiring your left idol in the mirror of fetishism and self-cyclicalism, while at the same time moving within the narrow limits of reactivity and simple denial. That's political self-defense. Get over it, so you can be useful. The stagnant water and wear with the present is overcome and we are aspiring, yes, that it may be the baptist who will launch the sporting family, that will redefine those capable conditions that will prioritise sport in our lives. You have a challenge. Accept it. Otherwise, the moving zero sand will dig you. You are the left that you are most comfortable with the role of responsible grumpy, phalaiism, masqueraded selfishness. If anyone were trying to classify you as a nurse today, he would dare diagnose that you are suffering from melancholy. That's why a regression of arguments and such a resentment. All your thoughts with obsessed consistency and prejudice are framed by the theory of commercialisation, the aflammation of social goods, the bad entrepreneurship, the legitimate interests, thus restoring every effort to change and inhibiting any legislative effort in terms of potential. Mercy! [[At this point the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Unfortunately, the SYRIZA's government practices yesterday, and his safe abrupts and communities today with its special elitism, his masturbations show his intrinsic problems, which end up in his political turmoil, an ideocratic zero. Practically, it annuls any effort, slanders it, but even though it suggests, it reminds Nietzsche: “If from now on you are missing all the stairs, you must learn to step on your own head. How else would you like to go higher?’ All opposition reactions reach a single hypocrisy: All shoot astray. The Orthodox from the door of course, the rest of the phantom leftism from the window. Speaking of the first SYRIZA rapporteur in committee, he referred to our initial differences. If she of course meant mythical, dystopic theologies on the left, in relation to the realism and rationalization of the Central Right, we agree, as well as to the effort - she says - that the government should create breaches, so that we in the sport movement will take advantage of this anachronistic and dangerous bill. Of all that I must say, I was extremely dissatisfied with the use and obsession with the word'movement'. In fact, I think that the inaccurate and unscrupulous use of concepts is responsible for many defeats. Because where there is a movement, there is always a crack that crosses and divides, I think it would be useful to rethink the concept of the movement, at least in terms of sport and in relation to the sports family and the sport community. We are therefore faced with another impressive paradox of opposition. On the one hand, you are all expressly and disarmingly admitting the need for changes in the institutional area of sport, and, on the other, accepting its long-term malignancies and untreated chronic wounds - this means rather resenting your own governmental failure, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - and on the other, relianceing on excessive and hasty ambition or hypocrisy on the whole legislative effort, disconnecting it from its main coordinates, which is the imprinting of a map and, in essence, a clear definition of its basic subject. You are condemning, as always, the painful reality, as always, zeroing any attempt to modernise, as always invisible enemies as genuine defenders of the social good. But you're getting rid of it when you're going to propose alternatives. If changes are needed and institutional shielding and safeguards and the treatment of chronic damages, these changes, not those proposed by the government, which you may have, do not mean a priori something, interference in the self-employed and self-regulation of sports organizations. What function is weariness? Since there is a lot of talk of intervention, I wonder: How is internal self-regulation achieved and good governance ensured? In addition, what - or what necessary and suitable conditions is the catalyst, but also the guarantee of responsible and virtuous autonomy and functioning in this regard of sports organisations? We, in these terms and precisely for the purpose of ensuring this responsible autonomy, legislate the pre-conditional framework, not as a vengeful or self-interested intervention, but as a regenerative necessity. When, as a result of the above, the issues of confusion and injustice arise and are all intrigued at the table, as they have heard, a fundamental deficit is betrayed: we do not respect the agreed implied suggestions of coexistence and democratic tolerance. These are not mine, they are Kostas Zourari, our teacher and your MP, who take off democratic thoughts by analyzing the agreed implied policy through Thucydides and Gregory Palama. The State Secretary and the Government were accused of being dissatisfied. In fact, it has been said by your Member that renewal is being cultivated and is not being enforced, so not in the so-called caratification of persons and in the depreciation of their work. Paradoxically, ladies and gentlemen, the Left, which permanently deals with the new, fresh, refreshment, defends not the conservative but the unpreserved, the corrupt one. It defends regimes, and it promotes constitutionality. An euphoria of equality and authority, which runs counter to natural deterioration, against natural law, because even of the authorities, the time of life is finite. In the year 2020, the 'bad and contaminated' Right is fighting for renewal, while the 'great and indestructible' Left defends what? Equivalence! Contrary to your democracy! If sport produces money, it is a privileged intervention area of government liberalism, it has been said. Confusion is appropriate. It is noted that the liberals of the New Democracy see the romantic good of sport as a speculation area. Immediately there is anti-positive manicism. Are you planning on romantic amateurism? You're good. Are you planning on profit through sports activity? You're not good. Ladies and gentlemen, infantry thinking and confusing you between socially necessary mass sport, through the actions of state bodies, who must motivate citizens to exercise physical activity and between societal sport - amateur and professional - that is to say, sport that produces spectacle, championship and sometimes - yes! - money and a glance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u400	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u401	I shall conclude, Mr President. Your tolerance for a minute. I am of the opinion that all the Undersecretaries of Sports so far, any government, have had good intentions to try out ways and methods of reorganising and developing Greek sport. We do not want, in each's own mistakes and correctness, to pay no attention to self-interest. That is why this bill corrects and closes open issues. The right thing is, however, to take advantage of opportunities so that the political world can get together, by improving and healing, by operating institutions and by proving practically the democraticity and continuity of the state, always with a view to the future, because we have a say of existence from the best future, not from the past, but from ideas and meanings, which sometimes distort the view of reality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u402	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Xenophon Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this bill is a due arrangement of a time-consuming frugality in the administrative issues of sport. This lengthy looseness was the operative cause of many pathogens, which became gigantic and created feathers in a space that by nature favours massism, participatoryness, dynamic rotation and vision toward the future. Nevertheless, the lack of a clear regulatory framework and the proprietary concepts, which dominated federations and associations, managed to impose a special grey regime. One cannot help but feel ashamed of what our golden Olympiacos denounces in sailing, Nikos Kaklamanakis, a man who dedicated his life to national colours in order to give Greekism and domestic sport great successes that made us all feel proud of our athletes. Because he dared to hamper what wrong texts have been happening in recent decades behind closed doors and unscrupulous interventions and to make fundamental criticisms of the federal administrations, he has been targeted and smashed brutally. The Ministry's leadership is setting a definitive end to these syndicate interests, breaks face-to-face shapes and abolishes trade union housings. He listens to the athletes, puts them first, puts them at the centre. With a glance in the future, it ensures for the next generation of children that sports clubs will serve away from the claustrophobic partners. There is finally a housekeeping and a class in a blurred landscape with legal safeguards and institutional counterweights. Greek sport cannot continue as a clear vine with opacity and impartiality, but on the basis of the principles of equal treatment of publicity and the legitimate trust of athletes in their administrations. That is why we are destroying a new framework of the antiquities of sport by defining obstacles and restrictions on participation in management. We are reconstructing the regulation that all issues relating to antiquities, the conditions and the process of convergence and the process of participation of members in assemblies, decision-making on them, the establishment of the institutions, the functioning and organisation of the association and any other relevant matter should be defined primarily by the respective statutes of the sports club. We are ending the joke of far-reaching voting, by means of powers, a practice which is not adopted anywhere and in any procedure, which we must forget. And with this bill we forget it. Each member shall participate in the general meeting in person and by a single vote. In order to ensure that the lawful and legitimate types of proceedings are fully respected, a lawyer's association as a judicial representative is necessary and necessary. An innovative arrangement is introduced with the establishment of a register of specially recognised sports clubs, which are the cell of sport, the hatchery of young athletes and responsible citizens with principles and values. A sports club which does not bear the special athletic recognition and which is not registered in the electronic register of sports clubs shall not use sport facilities which are owned by the General Secretariat of Sports Legal Entities under public and private law. The right to participate in the antiquities will only be exercised by legal sports bodies, who have an active sporting activity and are dominated by the General Secretariat of Sports Register. The clubs - seals, which have been releasing state money for so many years, are out of sporting map. These arrangements, together with the already adopted bill on the limitation of terms and the limits of age from the boards of sports federations, create a solid institutional framework which enables administrations to be renewed by involving young people with visionary realism and reformist breath. We are moving on to an overall upgrade of sport in our country. We show the multiple benefits of organised sport in a comprehensive, institutionally intact and qualitatively guaranteed manner. ‘Organised sporting activity’ also means organised sports spaces, which are functional, non-cost and in line with the urban environment. That is why we are creating the appropriate institutional licensing framework for the placement of a new generation of closed sports facilities in municipal and public public areas. Greek sport in time were its people, young people and young people, who, together with the experience of older athletes and coaches, counted innumerable successes across the range of sports. I'm a man of sport, as I grew up in swimming pools and gyms. As such, I can assure you that this bill is what the whole healthy sporting community expects to do, it is what we have all been discussing for many years and it is time to implement and change established perceptions that, unfortunately, were taking us back and forth, which is certified by the constantly falling sporting successes, recorded, year after year, in sports that we have traditionally counted heavy arteries and medals. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to blow fresh renewal air into Greek sport, the vote on this bill is a one-way street. The diversity of interests, fighting rabies its provisions, is the safest indicator that its reforming mark is moving on the right tracks. We need to break the vicious circle and engrave with a view on tomorrow's day of Greek sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u404	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, especially for keeping time. As far as I can see, neither Mr. Vassiliou from New Democracy nor Mr. Constantine Barkas are present in the Chamber. So I give the floor to Mr. Georgios Kotsiras. Here, Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start my position from the amendment that has been tabled today on the open programme of 100 thousands of new subsidised jobs. It has not been a week since the Prime Minister's speech at the forum held in Thessaloniki and one of the main bets of the political retreat of unemployment, which announced, today came for a vote in the Greek Parliament. In this way, an open programme of the Ministry of Labour is being put in place to create 100 thousand jobs, where the amount of insurance contributions by employees and employers, irrespective of the amount of net monthly wage, will be paid from state budget resources for six months. Obviously, in situations of extreme crisis, such as the ones we are facing - we know very well that we are not talking about a neutral economic period - we are also aware of the opposition made to the government, but also to every government. However, I was really surprised at the attitude of Officer Opposition, which said by her representative that she would not vote, she would not support this amendment, she would not support the programme for the hundreds of thousands of new subsidised jobs. In fact, I wonder what message the Civic Opposition sends to society with this attitude and in these extreme conditions of crisis, which is aimed at preventing unemployment especially of young people, but also the long-term unemployed, as well as when there is an additional EUR 200 subsidy on the net monthly wage. I believe that this decision of SYRIZA should be revoked, because it is politically incomprehensible and I think it exposes him to an absolute degree to the eyes of Greek society. Let's go to the bill now. This is a very important bill, for many reasons, which have been sufficiently analysed since the morning and by our rapporteur, but also by the Minister. I am particularly pleased that the source of the bill and the core of its provisions is amateur sport, because amateur sport is a key point in every person's life, it is about the great mass of Greek citizens, who choose to deal with it, and the resolution and renewal of the space that concerns sport in general, and most importantly, on points relating to amateur sport, it sends messages of health and renewal to Greek society as well. As for the video, reportedly working athletes, could that be said? Sportsmen aren't civilians? They don't have an opinion? They don't think so? Aren't they tired? Haven't they lifted the Greek flag? Haven't they brought all of us pride in their successes? Is it possible, then, to fly a "we're working on them", as if world-level athletes were politically exploiting tools? It is an honor for our country, which has athletes who have an opinion and are citizens and support the bill. The opposite would be absurd and otherwise refers to regimes of other times. So this bill has important issues with a wide and deep social footprint. Particularly important is the provision for fairer representation in the eleventh plenary session of the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee of the individual bodies, such as the National Sports Federation of Disabled People, the Federation of Greek Basketballists with Amoxidation and Paralympians. It is important to be able to form a federation for the sport of individuals with amputation or inherent anomaly of one of the two legs. It is important because it gives symbolism and, at the same time, the essence of supporting sport for disabled people and the reason that sport exists on key issues of Paralympic and escorts. Now we're going to union matters. Is there anyone who disagrees with keeping a register of specially recognised unions? Does anyone, in other words, disagree that, when there is no special athletic recognition and is not registered in the online register of sports clubs, it will not be able to use sporting facilities, which are owned by the General Secretariat of Sports legal persons governed by public and private law? Is there anyone who disagrees with this, who argues that there are no unions - seals, which are the core of the activity of young children and their contact with sport? I have been a athlete and I am well aware that a child is breast-feeding through these clubs, is breast-feeding by the facilities and is operating at sports facilities, which are finally protected and entered a class for the first time by the Ministry of Culture and Sport in a piece, which concerns their everyday life and safety. Does anyone disagree with the pension household and the transparency of the union? Does anyone disagree with transparency and the order, which goes through the coach register? So people who manage the everyday lives of sports clubs and young athletes should not have criteria under which they can be put into a register and on the basis of which they will be evaluated? Are these issues that have a party print? Should it not be self-evident, should we all agree and not be subject to political and party confrontation? What message do we send? Is that the message we want to send to issues related to sport, which is a key part of our everyday life? "The abolition of obstacles to non-discrimination made by a student-sporter in order to be introduced into the TECs, or to another school or AEI, provided that this distinction is achieved during the school year in which the student made the transfer..." is the resolution of an inequality that existed for years and the country and the state must motivate people who are labouring and carrying global discrimination and resolve them in a procedural way and stop the inequality that existed. Because only then does it really support healthy sport, sport, and it gives proper standards to society. Finally, I come to the National Platform to collect information from Article 13 of the Macolin Convention, which we had already discussed last November and from which the reform that has been under way began. And all these reactions are a sign that it is actually moving smoothly and entering into the everyday life of sport, in a way that may affect some interests. But here we are talking about the daily life of the Greek citizen. Do you think the Greek citizen is currently dealing with who he is where and what he does? He is interested in unions operating smoothly, coaches being registered, facilities being serious, safe and recorded. That's what matters to the Greek citizen. That's who we represent here. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to say that, in fact, sport is very sensitive and is a key policy of the government, from the very beginning of its election, that this reform frees and mobilises healthy and productive forces in the field of sport and, above all, sends a message of housekeeping, order and transparency, which is not just for sport, it is a whole thing for the public sector as a whole. This is the message Kyriakos Mitsotakis has sent since the first day that he was elected Prime Minister. This message in the field of sport is being transposed with the Minister's current bill. I invite you to vote in favour. In fact - I say this again - SYRIZA must vote in favour of the programme of subsidised jobs. This choice is incomprehensible. It sends out the wrong messages and is exposed politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much. Mr Pascalides has the floor, and then Mr Kavvadas will be prepared. Mr. Passalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion introduces reforms aimed at leading to Greek sport in a new era, free of current illnesses. The main changes concern the administration of sports federations, and include arrangements for sporting people in some form of disability, as well as provisions relating to amateur and professional sport. Thus, the new administrations of the sports federations will emerge in the most unique direction of transparency and, indeed, they will be able to participate the old Olympians, who work as coaches, while at the same time entering a brake on lifelong administrations in the sports federations. It should be noted that the election of unions, associations and federations is forbidden to participate by prosecuting, which puts an end to voting control, while in the commissions it will be headed by a lawyer as a judicial representative. In addition, this bill increases in forty days before the general meeting the deadline for the federations to submit to the General Secretariat of Sports a list of associations entitled to participate and vote. It shall also be increased in 15 days before the General Meeting the deadline for replying to the General Secretariat of Sports on whether or not the list is validated. Besides, the electoral list for associations and federations will include only clubs with special athletic recognition, registered in the General Sports Secretariat’s register and active participation in official events over the last two years. At the same time, the specific articles of the draft law are simplified procedures for the award of special sporting recognition to clubs, which have two years to acquire it, otherwise they are automatically deleted from their association or federation. Also, until they acquire it, they cannot participate in all Greek matches. In addition, a federation of sports groups, institutions, legal persons of public and private law in the wider public sector supervised by the public sector is permitted. Furthermore, this draft law provides that active athletes can practice at the same time as trainees as long as they hold a licence to pursue a profession, in accordance with what is legally applicable, while there is still no possibility for an athlete to be a coach in the same group or in another group of the same category, in which he is struggling. The notion of trainer of sporting and archery sports is also introduced, in order to allow amateur associations only to entrust the training of their juvenile athletes to a specific individual sport or sporting industry to train trainers under unpaid employment contracts, who are experienced athletes and who hold an appropriate qualification as instructor of the sports federation concerned. With regard to sport for persons with disabilities, it is more equitable and in line with the principles of sport representation in the eleven-member plenary session of the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee, increasing the representation of the Hellenic Paralympic Association in three, thus giving the opportunity to offer from administrative posts. A special reference should also be made to the provision of benefits with exceptional discriminatory treatment and fine-tuning sports escorts, who are legally struggling on the basis of the international rules of each sport in struggles with disabilities. Furthermore, in compliance with the Anti-Doping World Organisation, the full independence of doping controls is achieved by the sports federations, which will no longer bear the annual cost. The National Agency is responsible for this, so that it can plan and implement independently and fully the doping control in amateur sports. Equally important is the establishment of the National Platform, as provided for in Article 13 of the Macolin Convention, which is responsible for collecting information against the manipulation of the sports matches and transmitting them to the competent authorities and organisations, for coordinating actions against manipulation of sports matches. To conclude, I would like to point out that this bill was warmly welcomed by the overwhelming majority of Greek athletes and actors in Greek sport, confirming that the sports reform sought by the government and Mr.Augias is indeed on the right track and is going to bring Greek sport to the place he deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and especially for keeping time. Mr Kavadas Athanasios has the floor and Mr Yiannis Burnus is being prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country gave birth to values of awe and admiration and enjoy international recognition, values that are a source of strength, national pride and inspiration for our young people. This bill is yet another means to serve these values and ideals of sport, without shadows, without swaying, without any suspicion of stumbling, without any tolerance to phenomena that blacken the athletic ideal. For all these reasons, we are determined to change the existing institutional framework, to align ourselves with international practices and to draw up a new path. I have been nursed for many years in the field of sport, and I continue to serve him today, and so I am well aware of the pathogens that hamper his development, his opening in society. For many years we have heard announcements of intent to deal with this pathogen. No one, however, turned the intention into action. But this government dares. It puts an end to clubs - seals, which do not have a racing activity, but which normally vote or vote, altering election results. We want active, legally, healthy unions that serve athletes and sport. We are finishing with unions - seals that do not cultivate sport, but serve other purposes. For the first time by this government, a register of recognizable sports clubs is being established and kept. Only these certified associations will be able to use public or municipal sports facilities. Only these recognised unions can participate in institutional processes, such as elections to associations and federations. In fact, these specific sporting recognition procedures give clubs a realistic margin of two years. Ladies and gentlemen, so far over five thousand two thousand unions have been signed, and about two and a half thousand unions have submitted complete files. And the recording's still going on. Of course, estimates mention over 12 thousand unions. But these unions will never see, because most of them are unions - seals. By recording, these will be isolated once and for all, so the government will have achieved its goal, a clean register, which is the first essential step to clear the scenery, putting order and order. Through this register, sports clubs are financially strengthened, in terms of transparency and objective criteria, based on the number of athletes, coaches and the sports they cover. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, 12 million euros will be allocated to them. A few years ago, Minister, we asked the General Secretariat of Sports and the federations to finance us so that we could support the clubs. For the first time in twelve years, the grant has been given directly to associations, without the mediation of federations, one more measure to increase transparency. The aid will be tax-free and irresponsible. It will not be subject to any detention and will not be offset by other tax or insurance debts or bank debts. Ladies and gentlemen, registration of sports clubs is the first step towards an integrated system of sports registers, as coach registers, sports club registers, as well as sports facilities will be followed. Another of the most important interventions in the bill is the creation of the national platform to combat the phenomenon of stalled games, which poisons sport. Information will be moved through so that the action of the competent authorities against the manipulation of sports games is coordinated at national and international level. The provisions of the bill do not come into empty legislative time and space. Legislation has been precedented with considerable predictions that enhance and strengthen sport. I would like to remind you - for example - of the reduction in VAT on racing tickets and seasons, as well as the measure of lowering taxation on professional athletes' contracts. I would also remind you of the very significant increase in the tax rebate from 10% to 20% for sponsorships and donations to amateur unions. This is a measure which enables amateur unions, such as the ones we have in my region of Lefkada and the surrounding areas where their survival depends on such donations. Finally, I cannot comment on the provisions governing sport for people with disabilities. With arrangements that encourage participation in both the racing and the administrative part of sport, Paralympians are given a speech and representation, and a reward is also provided for their escorts. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Culture and Sport comes, in the midst of the extraordinary circumstances, created by the coronary pandemic and, admittedly, has serious economic implications. Since exceptional measures are needed in exceptional circumstances, the Ministries of Finance and Labour have a very useful amendment with the 100 thousand new jobs subsidy programme with full cover for insurance contributions from the State. In this way, we reverse the climate and create conditions for self-confidence and stimulation of the labour market, as we encourage the creation of new jobs, instead of discussing only the voluntary support for the unemployed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms contained in this bill reflect the persistence of this government and our Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, in order to bring order, transparency and democracy into the field of sport, and we are moving in that direction. I support and vote in favour of this bill and personally congratulate the Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr Leuteris Aygeakis, for the initiatives it takes, because it applauds the demands of times, with the sole aim of the good of sport and the good of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor will then be taken by SYRIZA MP Yiannis Burnos and then by Mr Tarantilis from New Democracy. You have the floor, Mr Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u411	Today we are discussing the long-awaited bill on sport, a bill advertised by Mr. Aygeakis in all ways, spots, hashtags, photos, public relations and events. It is true that for such a bill it needs advertising or rather propaganda, it needs to work on persons and institutions, it needs consultation in August, it needs reduced participation and, of course, it needs a government majority to pass. Just like that. It couldn't have been different. We are talking about a bill of deep autocratic, anachronistic, anti-democratic, full of photographic provisions and services of various types. I also hope one last correction you made concerning privileges will not relate to related relationships between officials from either the Ministry or the government. You said on several occasions that you are progressing on the basis of a plan. We won't argue. That's what we think. It is a plan, however, which includes the eruption of all the democratic predictions of Law 4603, of the Vasiliadis Act, which you have rushed to do in an earlier time. Then you called it a parole. It is now clear that you have finally encouraged the repression of all hopes for renewal and more representative representation in the institutions, the repression of all expectations for the development of sport. It is a plan to establish close party mechanisms in sport, a plan for full commercialisation and conversion of amateur sport into 'bizna'. Finish what you have started two months ago with your late amendments, when you have eliminated election blocks, when you put traders in unions, when you played with irreversible and final convictions, when you played a change of service with acquaintances and friends. With this bill, you're eliminating more impediments. Other friends have come up, probably, who will come down to the election and you want to make it easier for them. I'm not saying, it's human, but you're Minister. That's enough! Do not make the legislative procedure as you did a few hours ago, when you further lower the electoral threshold for seventy years. You may be a topographer, as you said, and not a photographer. But do not unfair yourself, because you are doing so in photography too. I would remind you, however, that you are also a Minister and are not allowed to underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people. This time are the active coaches and the active judges of the instrumental gymnastics. Save us time and tell us directly who this is about. That's a good explanatory statement, but you're getting more specific. We hope then that the last drops of hustle will finally end the photographic film. You are reiterating that you are finishing white authorisations and ensuring the integrity of the antiquities, defining a lawyer as President in the responsible committee. Congratulations, Mr. Augiakis, but we caught you in March 2019! You're evangelizing the new one. Nevertheless, you have introduced an electoral system for sports bodies, which leads to administrations similar to those you are accused of, that is, administrations with a strong majority. You eliminate the most representative representation. You eliminate the strong minorities. You eliminate the possibility of control, transparency and good administration, which only the presence of a strong minority can guarantee. This is not new, Minister. It's old, not too old. Even admission to the Board of Directors by a candidate of 25% against a candidate for a 40% candidate in order to strengthen pluralism, while introducing a two-thirds crusade on the election seats, is also an old, very old one, since some were sharing mirrors with the natives in order to conquer them. This in vain is what you seek to do with sport too, to conquer it on behalf of the interests you serve. As far as the provision of the terms and limits of age are concerned, we all remember the Greek Parliament's mockery of retrospectiveness last November. These provisions are problematic. They're going down on the first appeal and they're going to collapse all the method you're trying to do. Together, however, Greek sport will collapse, which is located in an Olympic Games orbit. With publicly expressed internal reactions and balances, you can play as much as you like. But with the sacrifices of athletes, coaches and managers you have no right to do so. Today it is UEFA that threatens Grexit. Who assures you that others who perceive your motives will follow behind the raw and straight interventions to national federations? You're asking if we're against the mandates. We've legislated them, Mr. Ausgarian. We have set them for the first time with the law Vasileiadis without retrospective power, with respect for democracy and the Constitution. You voted against them and rushed to abolish the provision at the earliest opportunity. For what? It's a rhetoric. Most of us knew him the reason, and those who didn't know him now learned him. You don't want the terms for renewal. You want them to be caratized by specific faces and in their place to put others. You have a plan, and you said it. Of course, we must note that you are despising the statutes and the statutes of sporting organisations, where you are, of course, allowed to do so. where he gets you, and that's clear. Wherever he doesn't call you, he's taking over another minister. I'll make a reference to the association's direct grant. Amateur sports clubs are the main core of the development of sport, as well as the means of transition to a high level of culture that constantly highlights our country internationally with a multitude of discrimination. They are the same amateur unions that you and your Government have led to economic suffocation since March. There's no welfare, no special measures. Their revenues have been zeroed. But the same did not happen with their fixed expenses. They didn't get zeroed, but they accumulated. You announced a sum and told the Commission that it would be paid over the next few weeks. In the next few weeks they'll have a lock, Mr. Ausgeakis. The aid should have been granted yesterday. It's enough with the mocking and the communal terrain. We have seen what it has to do with the concept of consistency. We have seen it many times in the year, overdue payments of the regular grant to the national federations. In closing, the division you have invested to pass this bill is approved by Mr. Mitsotakis? Did you talk about healthy parts of sport for those who support what you bring implying what? That those who disagree are ribbons and criminals? The division of athletes and their innocenced tooling has been proposed by Maximos? Do your insulting statements from time to time for long-term staff present in sport enjoy the Prime Minister's acceptance? The possible exclusions from international organization due to your operations will be signed by Mr. Mitsotakis? This bill, as we expected, let us not be fooled, is a problematic and bad bill, a bill that in no way benefits amateur sport. It is a bill of stone in the further development of Greek sport. It's a bill that will minimize sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Tarantilis from New Democracy has the floor."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening and protecting sport as a constitutionally regulated institution is unnecessarily part of the State's obligations, in response to chronic demands for transparency and order. The Ministry of Culture and Sport with this bill brings a number of regulations aimed at the healthy development of sport. I shall confine myself to some of them, which, in my view, are important for different reasons. In particular, should we not be pleased as a society to ensure transparent and reliable procedures by banning participation by a proxy and the presence of a judicial representative in the antiquities of sporting bodies? Should we not be satisfied with the emergence of incorruptible administrations with a reinforced analogue in order to prevent malfunctioning in the decision-making process? An important improvement in this bill is the simplification of the special sporting recognition of clubs, as well as the rewarding of distinguished athletes without the existing bureaucratic obstacles. After all, we know very well and the results are clear that our Government, the New Democracy Government, can hit red tape with simplification, as has been shown in other areas. Proof of daring and householding is also the digital recording of active and legitimate sports clubs, resulting in the abolition of clubs with non-existent sporting work, the well-known, as has been heard many times today, "body - ghosts". Accordingly, a arrangement that we believe will work for the benefit of sporting education is the maintenance of the online record of coaches, as well as the possibility of active athletes being able to practice training, on conditions, of course, without having to stop their sports career. With regard to people with disabilities, very important theme, the government emphasises policies that promote equality and dignity by ensuring fairer and equal treatment for all the athletes of AMEOs, as well as their fine escorts - consortia. Of course, it is fair and worthwhile to extend the privileged athletes with exceptional discrimination, regardless of whether their association has already received a special recognition permit. Also, with the creation of a National Platform of Sports Integrity, which is, as we know, the key tool for implementing the Macolin Convention to combat manipulation of the sports games, we aim to regain credibility and prestige in the field of sport, which I am sure everyone here in this Parliament and in society agrees. This is a flexible coordination body for internal coordination and international cooperation. The manipulation of the games is a misery, ladies and gentlemen, which poisons sport and we will not leave that behind. Something similar, of course, is also the doping for which control expenditure is recovered, as you know, which is quite clear and supports at a very critical time sports operators who are seriously affected. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, by listening to the objections and objections both today and in the days in the Committee on Educational Affairs - I have listened carefully - I would like to say that I believe that, in general, this draft law actually serves important values for society, values which, moreover, and sport itself, cultivates values such as self-worthiness, right, modernisation and development. It is a bill that truly cares for Olympian and Paralympian, for professional and amateur, for large clubs, for small clubs, for physical sports, for spiritual sports. It is a housewife and a fair bill, as it seeks to put order in amateur sport and activate all these healthy forces that can give something positive to sport through transparent and clear processes, beyond strangles that we all know exist. This is a modern draft law with the creation of the digital register, and it is a development bill with the legalisation of economics and fiscal incentives to restructure and sustainability of sports clubs. In conclusion, our Government, the New Democracy Government, also shows in the field of sport that it boldly implements its reform work. And this bill is one of these steps, inclined to listen to society and, as a vision of a future of parity, good coexistence and progress in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The list of speakers has been completed here. A colleague had asked to speak last, but I don't see him here. We have normally said not to - of course I was not from the outset - that there were secondary periods, but that, once the rapporteurs have been asked, the time that has been spoken will be measured. Mrs Sakorafa has asked for the floor. I will certainly give the floor to everyone. I see the times here. You haven't exhausted them about the secondarys, but in any case, we're at the end. So, as soon as you can, please. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much, Mr President. Personally, I haven't misled myself, I just asked the Minister a question while he filed the legislative improvements...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u416	I would like to say this: the Minister has the right for twenty-seven minutes, thirty-two minutes and thirty-five to speak and speak twenty-nine - thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u417	And then to every Member he talked about two or three minutes and more. But that does not matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u418	Alas, we are at the end, Madam President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u419	I know very well that this House is tired. We have been here for several hours and I would say that we have exhausted the matter in both the committee and the three procedures. I think that our second-guess is rather in vain, but I cannot find any substance in the process, Mr President, because the crucial issues are predetermined. It seems that the Minister is not affected by the parliamentary procedures, but, unfortunately, by the entire government majority. The Member's personal expression has gone to the unclaimed, or rather to the demands. It seems that he was out of the Profruit's bed in which you have placed democracy. The recent statements by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki were quite clear: there will be no resumption of disagreement - he told us - a Member. So we won't follow you there either. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am very conscious of what is happening to the majority Members. I cannot imagine that the overwhelming majority is not offended by this disgraceful behaviour of the Minister for Foreign Affairs for all of us. And I'm saying it right away. He haggles positions, faces with numbers and age limits clearly and without the slightest sense of shame. And I can explain why I do not like to hide my words, as I have said many times in this Chamber, he has sold and canceled a very obvious rousfetti - I mean the ages among the presidents who would be elected to the federations and the AIFs - while at the same time reducing the limits, because I cannot make another case, that one of those who wants to get rid of it was in a few months' time, or in order not to be able to simply participate as a board member of federation or a union. Since the process of controlling sports administrations has been carried out in the programme of injections with party volunteers and is more than obvious - I quote, that the Prime Minister imposes all party discipline - does not feel the need - I wonder personally - for the Minister for this procedure to protect his Members so that they do not have to be heard in this bazaar in Parliament? Nevertheless, we as a party and each Member with a sense of responsibility will make every effort to honour the parliamentary process at all times. As to the bill, it obviously makes no sense to repeat it. The rape of words and meanings by the Minister lightly becomes the heart. The self-employed has specific content and you are consciously attempting to exhaust all possibilities to be violated with potentially unfounded legal stunts. Your purpose, Minister, cannot be concealed. The confusion between judges and those in sports, the confusion of auditors and audits, and all relevant provisions, is both legally and morally unacceptable. Nor does it make sense to monitor the tactics by which you read to us by interpreting their content at will. I am sorry, Minister, but these are cheap games and our parliamentary and political dignity requires us to stay away from them. You have invoked a letter from the ILO to harmonise the statutes by invoking the sports administrations because they did not go there. Here you are trying to mislead and create false impressions consciously. I ask you, Minister: why do you feel this need to do so? You know very well that this letter is the letter sent at the beginning of November 2019, just a few days later, in the same month that the new framework was adopted by Mr.4639. Any reason for voluntary harmonisation is therefore completely empty. Regardless of the substance of the things for which too much time has been consumed, I really ask you again: Why do you feel the need to do all this? You confessed yourself here - and you mention names, I do not need to mention them right now, unless you challenge me - that you are legislating on the basis of promises you have made to your personal contacts and not on the basis of a comprehensive sport plan. In any case, we as a opposition will insist on the attitude of parliamentary responsibility and vote on some of the provisions and some of the articles that we really think will be in the right direction. But I want to close this with you, Minister. I shall repeat the word, because I have heard it from colleagues. Don't work on the Olympians. Honestly, I'm telling you, and please very much, don't do this because you divide them into two. There are problems on the one hand and on the other. You made a video. Other Olympians came out across the street and started a conflict that does not benefit sport. What you have to do from your position, politics and morality, as head of the ministry that you lead, is all these athletes hug them, unite them for the good of sport, particularly sport and children themselves. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Boobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u421	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, we have expressed our objections. There are some points that have been made to us. Today, of course, this whole debate was also of a two-story character, which the lawyers say, because we have learned about retrospectiveness, but it is one thing that we would say: review it - and seeing the retrospectiveness as the experts say, the lawyers on this issue and, above all, the constitutionalists, read a little historically the issue from ancient times - it says - from the time of Democrat and Aristotle 'Kat Timokras', if you see - what I have read - retrospectiveness is never the case, not only in ancient Greece, but also in Europe and in northern America. Retrospectiveness comes when something comes up against the rule of law and within a reasonable period of time, but most importantly, it is not when it comes to impacting some prosperous people, we would say, reforms. That's all we're worried about. Mostly retrospectiveness comes only when the legislator did not have democratic representation. In other words, there are some points or questions and some of the legal concerns that retrospectiveness can, in the end, be for a secure rule of law under the Constitution, but it is not applicable. That makes me very impressed. As far as the draft law is concerned, there will be a number of issues, such as what will be the role of the NRA - after all, our parliamentary representative has said so - that the NRA has insane points. This Hoobel text that has come to the WEU to take the elections in October, otherwise threatened with Grexit, should give us general concern in the field of sport. As far as the register of coaches is concerned, there must be flexibility, but there are some issues here, such as, for example, - I will put this to you because it has not been put forward - the football coaches from TECs that have university training, if they do not have seminars in the NCA to give from EUR 800 to EUR 2,500, do not get a degree in coaches, because the NCA is coming as a broker, not to say that it is the brake-training factor and obliges them to do seminars. This, of course, does not seem to exist in another European state. These are issues that you know, you are aware of, and we should resolve them. If it is possible that the ATE enters a treasury - we say it to the catapult - and tell them "do the seminars because I do not characterize your scientific training" and football coaches being on board hanged wood. There are some other injustices. We want the watermill of sport to function - and I have said it in my speech - but the watermills are out of line, they have no right to elect and be elected, and that is what we object. We also object to the age limit and to all this debate on unconstitutionality - another about terms - is another parameter that we need to discuss in the manifestations of society and whether one needs to close his circle when he is to a degree of authority because he can become arrogant, etc. Or be eroded - we have to see her. In any case, it is a bill and an effort that will be a siege, because it does not resolve issues of union operation, as has to be resolved, in order for ordinary water buffaloers, just speech and opinion. From there on as far as disabled people are concerned, yes, you have made an effort, but that is where we need to become deep areas really. We are voting against in principle and on the whole because we consider this draft law to be skinny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, too. Mr Synthrakis, the special speaker of the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Mr.Avgenakis, the Undersecretary of State, in the face of his apparent inability to support this institutional coup d'état in union sport seeks dangerously to bring athletes into confrontation with athletes, coaches with coaches, athletes with people involved in administrative matters, thinking that this will hit the pathways in sport. Allow us, but the government, the Ministry of Sports uses the practices and tools used by Aslanides, Mr. Ausgeakis. Many people have told you that and you are not taking it into consideration. But make a mistake if you think that the world of sport will remain silent in front of the mountains of the problems it faces and the bandages that will put thousands of sports clubs. And what are you doing? You're on your way to the Olympics, listen to me. You're recruiting athletes. You're setting up video propagandas. We're not going to comment on what they say, not because we're afraid. He has nothing to fear the Communist Party of Greece. It's the Olympics' right to have an opinion. They've lived in situations. But I'll ask you this. All these factors that acted, when did they act? Didn't they act on your own governments? From your own parties, don't they? Now don't they make you? Don't they? It is obvious that you are attempting to change guards by changing, that is, Manolius to wear his clothes otherwise, but continue on the same canvas. That's the reality. It's unacceptable to use the Olympians. Honest practice, Your Honor. At least we do not raise any question that athletes do not have the right to participate in the administrations of sports bodies. We never said that. Never. Why, then, does the government use these methods by confronting the sporting movement among themselves? It's not about the athletes, it's not about the Olympians. But we are not talking about this today. This is not the object of the bill, and instead of that, the State Secretary is working on them trying to turn them into a siege ram of the sporting cooking that represents this draft law. But I'll tell you something else. Let's see how you're gonna get this over with. In some federations, for example in the CEEC, the swimming federation cultivating many sports, by defining athletes in management in general and abstract terms, it means that 30% will be involved in the federation. In other words, six out of twenty one members of the board of directors. And we're talking about a federation with two hundred fifty unions. So it is obvious that the government's objective is to change correlations by tooling and exploiting athletes. Shame on you. Two. You blame the federations for not harming their statutes with the international federations. The ILO, however, said last November that the statutes would be harmonized. The federations had agreed and were in this process. When did he get interrupted? This procedure has been suspended since the previous law laid down the age limits and terms of reference. That is why we are talking about a government coup in this case. Except for cheating on them with retrospectiveness. That is, but you promised more legislation. Under the pressure of the sports world, then, you are attempting a new manoeuvre by lowering the age limits from seventy one to seventy. You started it from seventy-four, you took it to seventy-one, now to seventy-four. It's one of the wicked ones. So the election cooking has become a science in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u424	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u425	Although we have said that we are opposed to the imposition - look, I stress - of terms of terms and limits of age for those who want to be involved in the organs of sport, we would ask you why you went from seventy-four to seventy-one, from seventy to seventy-seven and not, for example, to seventy-two. Tell me. Why did you fuck the age of seventy-two? You're saying it was a call from the agencies. Was that a requirement for operators? Have you been defined by age limits? Who are the agencies? They're the controlling bodies of you. So I'm going to ask you this. Did the SECURITY make such a suggestion? Has Mr. Reverence made such a suggestion to you? Oh, no. So who are you photographing here? Who are you photographing? Tell us. Mr. Reverence, you're photographing. It's clean. It is therefore obvious that the objective of direct and immediate intervention and the extremism of sporting players is to be found. One may disagree, he may agree. He can have any political identity. We have an opinion on this issue, but not under such coup proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u426	Please conclude, Mr. Synatia. You've been over six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u427	I shall conclude, Mr President. You have reached the point of changing the composition of the Greek Paralympic Committee by reducing the representation of EOM, of disabled people from eight to four. It is a 40% reduction, although it is the basis of the Olympic movement with three and a half thousand athletes. You ignore them. You didn't bring them here. We have disagreements with them, too. I don't know exactly what your arguments are. But in any case, it does not care for honor when a bill, in the name of sport, is discussed, not to call the master, the main body of the paralympic movement. It is therefore clear that you also want to change the relationships there in the Paralympic Committee by making an artificial majority in the committee's plenary under the suffocating control of the Government and yours. Therefore, this bill is not just a monstrous feud, but will remain in history as a bill ala Aslanides. That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u428	Please, there is the reason for the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill has been completed and the conclusion is one. The Minister actually intervenes in the self-government of sports federations and their autonomy. The space of sport and the sport movement is not essentially of benefit. I would even say that it is not a reform, nor is it an attempt to rebuild and renew the sporting sector. On the contrary, what this bill brings is interference, as I have said, with the self-government and the autonomy of the sporting sector. That is why the arrangements of the bill instead of inspiring the sport movement with a new vision have caused strong reactions from all sides to the Greek Parliament. On the subject of retrospectiveness, Minister, which has been widely discussed today, our parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, in the Greek Parliament, has been placed at least four and five times. It was clear about the unconstitutionality of the retrospectiveness of the terms. The provision, as I said, and when it was discussed a year ago, Mr.4603, goes against the Constitution. We said then that a vicious cycle of controversy will be opened. Today we really lived it. We told you then and the rest of the parties to withdraw this provision. You referred to it and said that Article 8(2) should be deleted. And we were all now confident that this was the case. Indeed, I have said quite precisely that renewal is a national fact, the old one without the new one dies, the new one without the old is politically unrealistic, that the federations themselves should make renewal as is happening around the world. But without age-old racism we see him now, the seventy-one to become seventy, the seventy-four to become seventy-four. You will shortly be telling me that the ILO is harmonizing. It's a point of view. It is an answer, but it is not true, because you photograph - I would say - Minister for a particular federation, and if anything else I consider to be purely photographic. We said before you withdrew it. You're not withdrawing it. Today what do we see? To come to the same conclusion, to have terms of terms, but also to have retrospectiveness. Other parties have also proposed that you table an amendment and that the matter be brought again today to the debate on their terms and retrospectiveness. You didn't. At the same time, you have also been sent by FIFA and by UEFA letters, which deal specifically with sanctions against our country and are now visible. You must take responsibility here, Minister. As far as the issue of the electronic register is concerned, we have pointed it out to you at the outset, we have told you that it is open for every club to register without any restrictions. You did it. Accepted. We also told you, Minister, to disconnect this register from the elections and to make substantial use of the recording of the actual active unions, and this, of course, is to eliminate the phenomenon of a union - seal, not as a means of pressure and correlation in the electorate. We also told you to consider, Minister, the subject of the letter of vote, both because of the pandemic and the better participation and the costs which unions will be forced to leave Crete, from Evros, from Corfu, from the region, to come to Athens to vote. Do the thing. This will really make it easier for the regional sports clubs too, while, of course, ensuring transparency. I would like to end by referring to the privilege of athletes. Minister, you need to see this provision again for the entire Greek school races. In fact, we said it was unfair to reduce the percentages for the introduction of these children to higher education. We also told you to take care of the pan-Hellenic championships that were not made because of the pandemic. Here too, provision must be made to ensure that the attestations on the discrimination of athletes can be used, and after they have been completed, in fact by the date of their use. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against this bill because it does not shape conditions for the development of sport, it cultivates state intervention, it contains fragmentary and unclear regulations that have actually caused problems by intervening in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u430	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Moraite, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that what we have been living in Parliament these three days has no precedent. From the start, it was clear to the government that it wanted to lead things and with authoritarianity, deliberately set up a bill where it does not just violate the self-interest, it does not photograph just specific executives, historically in the field of sport, it not just works with the Olympics and the champions, but it does something much worse, it loses an opportunity. And there is an opportunity to take some steps forward, indeed to look at what the bad texts have been up to now. We have never said that in the field of sport everything is well-burned, that it is a road with rose petals, and in no case should it be done what was done by the Minister for the conflict between old and new. If you really want to build the new one, you don't go with old recipes, old practices that have since the Cultivation so far never seen them before. You have a record, you have a strategy, you have a vision of what you want to do and you come to Parliament and you present it. From the first moment on, we have shown all the good will to make proposals. We objected, separated our position into a strategy of choice, but honestly - I have never been in this Chamber since 2004 - and I have never been here as rapporteur in a bill where some things the government has not accepted from proposals from the other parties. I therefore believe that this bill as a whole was a bad piece of legislation, a rough piece of legislation, which did not work. Two final remarks and I'll be done. I want, Minister, the last day you referred to first, but also all of us in the Olympics, to be the last day. I think you have used them and worked on them to support the bill, but our Olympics and our champions should be the ones who join the country, join - if you like - the sports community and should not under any circumstances work and use them. I'm closing up with something I told you before, but of course I didn't get an answer. I said, therefore, that SYRIZA and 2019 and 2020 kept the same specific policy stance on what he also legislated on the issue of terms of births, because SYRIZA started it and, of course, started the great work that took place in the register. You, your resignation, were the one who, about a year and a half ago, in this Chamber, beat the Minister of SYRIZA, you asked for the bill to be taken back, you said it was interfering with the self-government in the field of sport, and today you presented something else. I could, Mr President, and on two or three other issues, which I consider to be serious, of course I had the time, put them in committee and in plenary, but I will close by saying to the Minister that he has announced to us that he will bring us a new bill in the near future, which will involve coaches.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u432	Be ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u433	Soon? Very good. I would suggest that it does not follow the same parliamentary and legislative practice. I think we owe this to the new generation of our country, we owe it to our children, we owe it to what we are called to build in this country, for a new page in sport and not to look back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u434	Mr Bartzokas, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u435	I'm continuing on what Mr. Moraite said. I think that this is exactly what we have done here these days, what we owe to children, Greeks and to all those who are engaged in sport either as active athletes or as people who are engaged in management to offer. We've said a lot these days. I think it has been understood to everyone and to those who are following us and to those who are here as well as to what is actually happening. On the one hand we have the government, we have the Minister, who believe in our election commitments, we bring a bill. On the other hand, I as a new Member, all I hear is sterile opposition, without any specific argument and without any serious, concrete proposals, unless we consider here - many of us - that our sporting world and sport have no problems. So do we or do we not want reform? I think we all want it. On the one hand, we have a minister who listened to the agencies, listened to all of us. As you know very well and as we have all analysed in here, it has accepted many proposals from the institutions, which have been incorporated into the bill. Also, a lot of heavy talk was heard. I'm not going into this process. If you want, it doesn't suit me. I think the news we want to bring, because we must mean it and do it, is something different. You know, out there especially young people and not only athletes, not only people who are involved in sport, all other young people and society are fed up with listening to a sterile opposition and confrontation. I will not go into this process, I will not go into the process of responding to the heavy talk that has been heard in here. I think that it has been sufficiently analysed what we are bringing with this bill, that it has been sufficiently analysed how important the intersection of sport is and whatever half has been heard here, in my opinion, and as a lawyer, is not going anywhere and have no basis. I, at least, am not convinced by what I have heard here in any case. In conclusion, I would like to say this because I have heard about authoritarianism and other methods, etc. Gentlemen, here we are at the temple of democracy. There's no authoritarianism in here. There is everyone's opinion here, and there is everyone's vote. Well, or badly in democracy, majorities prevail. Well or badly these majorities are elected by the people. So I cannot hear as a young man and as a parliamentarian here today in this area that any bill can be a product of authoritarianism. That is unacceptable. It's an insult to democracy. I'm not going to go on anymore. I'm hanging up. We therefore support the bill because we believe it brings an incision to sport. I know it's pointless to invite you to do it, but for the last time I'm going to ask you to do it, too, because it really is worth it both for our country and for our sport and for our children. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u436	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, you're ticking me and when you're ticking me, you'll get answers. Mrs Sacurafa, who read documents, may be disturbed, but, you know, we substantiate our views and nobody will escape because the truth is in the written texts. Because Mr Loverdos has previously made the mistake of reading half of the Minutes on this provision - of course he finally understood the mistake and left, as you have seen, very early and very quietly - I would like to ask if you are aware of all the provisions that we have had in connection with legislative improvements. Don't say ten months later that you didn't understand them. Dear Mr. Synchronakis, I am truly surprised, and with Mrs. Sakorafa. We don't work on the Olympians, we just listen to them. You guys can't. And you, Mr Moraitis, or rather the SYRIZA government in the previous period - then you were still not part of the SYRIZA - did not hear them. And I'll tell you two examples to see how far behind the moon you are. First of all, do you forget, ladies and gentlemen, that they were applied for - I have written in the Ministry's protocols - and they desperately demand that the Olympians can be seconded first by the Olympians at the premises of the General Secretariat of Sports and other sports facilities, i.e. municipalities basically? Did it ever happen? Oh, no. You don't care as rulers. What were we doing as a government in November? We have heard them, we have promised them that what they are saying is very right and that they should first have the right to choose and be seconded where they really choose. We brought the order. Do you remember what you said? A thousand million. Do you remember what you voted for? All 'yes'. Well, hypocrisy. And then you reacted, then we had to say 'yes'. So today. While it bothers you that they say fifty - sixty leading athletes positive comments about the bill, you tell us that we are working on them. I ask you - I said it and I will say it again - if they said negative comments, would you use them or not against the legislation? Now that they are expressed positively, we are working on them. Well, they're personal, they're people who have an opinion that's been subjected to a thousand million. Stop defending federations - not all of them, but some - who have operated against many athletes. I am going to ask three questions: are you satisfied with what is being said about the multi-annual administration of a large federation in order of discrimination in the previous years and, recently, to have done a sharp dive and where no one can explain how our discrimination, our successes, our presence in European and international struggles have been ensured? Are you happy, really, with what top athletes of sailing denounce? How many are these athletes who want to talk or want to talk, but were they afraid of all the things we have heard and have all been so far away? Are you satisfied that some people see their federation as their own business? Convicted by former president, after the competent bodies of the international federation were launched, he placed his wife president and continues to run, threatening and destroying distinguished and exquisite athletes who, by magic within one night or one day, disappeared. Are you satisfied with this? I imagine that those of you who have dealt with sport for a while have heard something. So don't pretend. Stop that. Tell the truth. "Yes, it is a right thing, but we find it difficult to vote because we are in the opposition and we must justify our role, but it is a right thing." Let's go on the issue of age limit. Ms. Sacorafa, I'm not afraid of my words, I'm not afraid of my position. But there are papers that you ignore. But it's okay, I'll give it to you to read it. Firstly, I would remind you that the seventy-seventh limit had tabled it in the bill under discussion at the time, before it was voted, for the Presidents of the federations. I had set the limit seventy. After consultation, we said to change it. But today, I come back to something that I believe in anyway. I brought it back then. You forgot, Mrs Sakorafa, that in consultation and the UCITS and the Hellenic Paralympic Association raised three issues. Amongst these were the issue of settling, harmonising their age and just now... Don't move your hand, wait till you get the paper to read it, please. Can't you hear another point of view? I'm sorry. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u438	I don't move it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u439	Listen to me. I'm filing the paper in the Minutes. So I read.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u440	I ask the President to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u441	So I read why you can't stand the truth. But you'll hear it. If you don't have a role and you don't have positions, you'll hear the truth and do as many explosions as you want. You're not ruining my mood. I'm patient to talk another ten hours. We've worked a lot, and we have no problem sitting ten and fifteen hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u442	Here we are to hear and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u443	Read, then, very much about the announcement they made just now by listening to you twisting their positions the Pan-Hellenic Paralympic Association and the UCITS. What are they saying? "We are attending the sitting of the House and we are seeing that our positions are paraphrased. We ask once again for our positions to be taken. We ask for the age limit at seventy years, as in the ILO and the terms of the Associations of Greek Olympic Committees, to be the same as those of the federations of the Hellenic Olympic Committee." I put it in the Minutes, because I like the documents, and I very much ask the rapporteurs to be distributed. I'm hanging up. I will not go into words, nor into descriptions of parliamentary inconvenience, about what we have never said, as Mr Moraitis said, and what we have never done. But you have never done things that people who are involved in sport have asked for. So, de facto, your position is difficult. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Today, however, there is a reform that, as we do, by hand in the heart, you realise has been carried out. This is something that all of you and all of us have been discussing, which you have heard hundreds of times and say a good word: a register of amateur sports clubs. It's working. The data are now publicly available. Do you remember what you were saying? You said you were going to do the record to have anyone who wants it and use it in the elections. No, the record is accessible to everyone. Did we say so? We kept it. To simplify the procedures. Did we say so? We're voting on it. Will you vote for it? We said we want to speak to the athletes. We said it and we did it. Will you vote for it? We also said that we want to give more time to write even more unions, not party unions. We want more unions to be written and they have the time to gather whatever documents they need, as we will simplify the procedure. Did we say so? We're doing it. Will you vote for it? So, ladies and gentlemen, you do not want this section that we are voting on today creates another day, a light day for our country's sport. It dawnes a different day with freedom, with clean oxygen, and especially with a desire to engage even more in the things of the sports federations of our country on the one hand and on the other hand enter a new orbit the entire sporting structure. We are sure that, with the contribution of all the healthy forces of the sporting family, our country's sport will go forward. In conclusion and since I thank you all, despite our disagreements - here we are, and I think that through the conflict there are many good things coming up - and after thanking the workers in the services of this House, and also the partners and all the staff of the Ministry of Sport, who have worked and are following the debate - believe me - I just want to say this: come and work together and see how we can bridge things up, as I told you what the next issues we will manage, which will have the new draft law, which we will bring briefly. Come on, if you have any opinions. We're at your disposal. We mean it. Come and work together. Don't think we can only be here. You are welcome to the Ministry of Sports to work as long as necessary with documented opinions and other issues that might fall into your own perception. Sport, as all of you have said, as I say, as I do, and most of you believe, I am sure of it - it unites, it does not separate. So, dear, Mr Synchronakis, references, for example, to Aslanides and identify Aslanides' phrases with Lenin and all that you have done, are shameful. Do not use them. You're not honored by what you did earlier. It is - I think - a bad level of political controversy that I think does not fit in this Chamber. Thank you very much. I am sure that what they can answer and go through and legislate has been answered. As you will see this morning and yesterday in the committee, one of the issues has been answered. We're working on them with our partners. In any case, we will have a very brief and a new parliamentary task to do. So we will be in touch and in touch, to do all that is considered right and useful for sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u444	Due to COVID you could give episcopal vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u445	The Vice-President, Mrs Sakova, has asked for the floor on staff. Madam Vice President, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u446	I will not be long, Mr President. We have said so much in this Chamber. In fact, I don't think it's worth the trouble to talk to you more. The Minister is still dismantling. And when the other view is heard, it really has a way to provoke the Chamber and the Members. I am not going to say what I have heard from my colleague on autism, etc. I will only answer the Minister. Of course the Paralympians have asked for this. But you know what the Paralympians were saying, Minister? In the articles you had in the bill, you had two different ages. You were seventy-one years old for most federal presidents and seventy-four for a specific president of disabled people. You know that very well. You know very well who he is. And you know exactly what you're doing. So you have brought this now, at the last minute, knowing also that you are creating elections ahead - antiquities have tomorrow - a huge problem in too many federations. And what all the Members have said here will happen: you will upset the sporting movement, precisely because you are making out of the process people who have for so many years been offering in this area, and suddenly they are not given the opportunity to participate as just members of the administrative boards. If you consider this right and if colleagues in this Chamber accept it, I cannot say anything else. You are to be judged by your own colleagues. Let your Prime Minister judge you. Let everyone judge you. This morning I spoke to you about old prime ministers who were in this Chamber and we respected them all and no one ever questioned them and were ninety years old. And you come now and tell me that seventy people can't be in federations and be in charge? So you are referring to Presidents who - you say - are doomed. Of course, there are civil courts. Why don't they swallow from their position? Isn't there any legislation in this? So you're telling us they're getting money and you don't know what they're doing with it. What does the General Secretariat do, Minister? Doesn't he have any supervisory organs? When he gives the money, doesn't he control the feds and where the money goes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u447	Good. The explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u448	No, Mr President. Allow me, just a second. What I'm saying is very important. We have a supervisory body that we call the General Secretariat of Sports, we have institutions and the Minister cannot come into this Chamber and say that this body is not working and that everyone else is to blame except for the General Secretariat of Sports. He either has staff and teams to be able to function this or he doesn't have it. That's the one. The last one will be with the Olympians, Minister. You've really split them. And it's a disgrace to you what you're doing! You've split them. Because you took off the video of athletes who may or may not be right - I will not judge that - and on the other hand, other athletes went out and said exactly the opposite and smuggled the rest of the athletes. Do you think that's right? Isn't that a job, Minister? What exactly is it? I told you before that you had the Secretary-General back where he was a champion. Your role is to join the athletes. Your role is not to separate them and make them two pieces against each other. They work and fight for the same thing: lift the Greek flag up. Don't do that again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u449	Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mrs Sacorafa that I am sincerely very sorry if I upset you on the day of your celebration. It wasn't my pursuit. But I can't let anything fall down, especially from a person whom all of us - and I together - we were happy about success, when you were an athlete active. But today, you're in another capacity here. Today, we're here to see what unites us. In sport, thank God, to a very large extent, except for a minority that is disturbed by these reforms, they are absolutely satisfied. I'm so glad because our ears are open. The picture, the sounds, the messages are absolutely clear. It's clear. Of course, here, now you have also made a mistake. The General Secretariat of Sports, despite his lack of staff, works. People work. And the quarantine period was there. And those who weren't in the ministry from home worked. And we brought results. For this reason, it is unjust to invoke them and even to invoke why one does not work, why the other does not work. The General Secretariat of Sports shall make the most of its administrative and audit tools. Be sure of this. If you would like, please, come to the Ministry at any time or testify to any questions, answer them with details and details. It is unfair, however, that you particularly refer in a derogatory way to workers, to officials from the General Secretariat of Sports, who, if anything, give their souls.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u451	Don't change our words, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u452	And I am very pleased that all the workers' clubs, Mr President, both the General Secretariat of Sports, as well as the OAS, as well as St. Cosmas, as well as the CTB, as well as Katoadzoglios, are satisfied, because they see a leadership that listens to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u453	Minister, is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u454	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u455	That is why, Mr President, closing down...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u456	Is that what I said, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u457	Madam Vice President, please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u458	Please, the Minister is consciously distorting what we are saying. Minister, is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u459	Don't have a dialogue between you two, please. The Minister gives details of what you said. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u460	In conclusion, I would like once again to thank all of us, particularly the rapporteur on our resignation, who has replaced Mrs Dunya, where with half-work each has managed to achieve an excellent result. I would also like to thank all my colleagues. And I want to say something that has not been commented on. Here is a list of speakers. Do you know how many people wrote to talk? Thirty-five. Do you know of them how many were of the New Democracy and how many were of the rest of the parties? They were thirty Members of the New Democracy and five of other parties. I'm telling you that if he tells you something. And that's what you keep.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u461	Leave it now. Why are you saying this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u462	I cannot comment on it because first of all I am a member of the New Democracy. First of all, I'm a party executive. On the other hand, as a member of the government, I cannot comment on it. New Democracy MPs' series sat here late to defend the bill, to talk about sport. Some others were left with the impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u463	Your inadequacies have remained to cover.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u464	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Sports and Culture: "Developing an institutional framework for the antiquities of sporting players, distinguishing escorts of athletes, setting up a National Platform of Sports Integrity, Hellenic Olympic Committee (E.E.)., Greek Paralympic Committee (E.R.) and other provisions.’; We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty articles, of an amendment, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Please make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u465	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u466	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u467	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "Reforming an institutional framework of the antiquities of the sports organizations, distinguished athletes AIA, setting up a National Platform of Sport Integrity, Hellenic Olympic Committee (E.O.E.)., Greek Paralympic Committee (E.R.) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u469	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 29 June 2020 (Morning), Monday 29 June 2020 (in the afternoon), Tuesday 30 June 2020, Wednesday 1 July 2020, Friday 3 July 2020, Monday 6 July 2020, Tuesday 7 July 2020, Wednesday 8 July 2020, Thursday 9 July 2020 and Friday 10 July 2020 have been distributed and the House is asked if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u470	The minutes of Monday 29 June 2020 (Morning), Monday 29 June 2020 (in the afternoon), Tuesday 30 June 2020, Wednesday 1 July 2020, Friday 3 July 2020, Monday 6 July 2020, Tuesday 7 July 2020, Wednesday 8 July 2020, Thursday 9 July 2020 and Friday 10 July 2020 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-17-S1-commons.u471	With the consent of this House at 21.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, September 18, 2020 at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
