ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 1-10-2020 delegation, the minutes of its session of Thursday, 1 October 2020, with regard to the vote as a whole, were confirmed by the Bureau:]] First of all, of the draft laws: "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a. or 5A002.b., as follows: "Preparation of the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of Administrative Care - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Air Force on Reciprocal Supply of Fuel." "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a., 5A002.b. or 5A002.b.; or "Preparation of the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Administrative Care - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Navy on the Mutual Supply of Fuel". Secondly, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Part II, and Part Parliamentary'. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two announcements: Mr Andreas Patsi, MP of the Grevena Prefecture, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad in the period from 4 to 7 October 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law 4557/2018 (A 139) on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing — Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/843 (L156) and Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 (L334)’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u3	Reports completed. I shall read to you the letter from the Secretariat-General for Legislative and Parliamentary Questions on today's questions: "We hereby inform you about the debate on the topical and urgent questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Friday, October 2, 2020 that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: Questions Nos 1075/25-9-2020 and 1085/28-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Questions Nos 1073/23-9-2020 and 1079/28-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Question No 1074/25-9-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vessiropoulos. Question No 1084/28-9-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Questions Nos 1076/25-9-2020, 1083/28-9-2020 and 1086/28-9-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Finally, Question No 6896/28-5-20, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou." These are the topical questions. Immediately after that, we will discuss the timely question of the Change Movement. Please allow me to take a short break for three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We will begin with the two topical questions to the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. The first question will be discussed under number 1075/25-9-2020 in the second cycle of MP B' Western Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgiou Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Compensation and remuneration of members of the Armed Forces who were employed in Kara Tepe in custody". Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the timely question concerns the compensation and remuneration of members of the Armed Forces who have been employed in the Kara Pepes on a standby basis. In the meantime, the Ministry of National Defence announced that a sum of EUR 15 million would be allocated as exceptional financial assistance for the personnel of the Armed Forces. Obviously, we welcome this move. Nevertheless, we must note that Prime Minister Mitsotakis did not make any mention at all of the military personnel, while he referred to the issues of the Armed Forces. He had to spend a whole week after the Chief of Police. We'll say hello again. For SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance the integrity of the Armed Forces depends on human resources as a priority, and therefore the state must consistently respond to the need to support the staff and not just exceptionally. A comprehensive design is therefore needed on all the arrangements to ensure that their difficult mission is carried out in terms of dignity. You know very well that in recent months there has been extremely heavy pressure on the personnel of the Armed Forces. There are many executives who have not taken one day's leave, and they are staff who offer the greatest not only to national defence, but also to fires, floods, social assistance, immigration and, of course, of course, to the last preservatives because of the Greek-Turkish crisis. This staff should be treated differently. It would be a pity what has been done with the health workers - and at first we applaud them and then we forget them, if we do not even get to dealing with clubs, as a few days ago - to repeat in the area of the Armed Forces. I should like to point out here that for fourteen months the New Democracy had not taken any action for the personnel of the Armed Forces. And we used the army to use the refugee issue. However, it was in times that the Ministry of Immigration had not yet established itself. That's what was set up now. You dismantled it, and you re-established it and the functions and tasks that other ministries and other personnel should do are carried out by the Armed Forces. At the same time, in exceptional circumstances, which the army really needs, as in the recent flood in Karditsa, it is not exploited as it should. Finally, there is the question of signing the joint ministerial decision on night-care compensation. So I come to the questions about Kara Tepez, and I ask whether special compensation will be given to military personnel every night's work, and since the elements of "HUNGY" reveal that the area of Kara Tepez will be committed for a long time and if the area belongs to the military administration, whether the military personnel will be employed either for work or for the protection of the space. Secondly, Kara Tepee worked for personnel of the Armed Forces more than five days and without granting the staff exemptions in the next few days. Why did the Command of the Armed Forces not take into account reserves? Is the Ministry's intention to provide in the near future a special remuneration for each day additional employment of members of the Armed Forces due to exceptional circumstances? Such services shall not be compensated for as a periodic employment, but shall normally be exempted and, if staff so permit by the obligation to enter the job in the current or the coming weeks. Has this forty-day standby instrument been observed for the personnel of the Armed Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u7	It is a lot of questions, Mr President. I hope it's three minutes, though I'm looking forward to it. Before discussing permits and allowances, I would like to say from this Step my delight at the overall performance of the Armed Forces executives in dealing with the difficult situations that have arisen in the recent rolling - I would say - crisis and escalating tension with Turkey. Luckily these people were mobilized. The mobilisation was universal throughout the length and width of the Armed Forces in all three branches. Of course, the fleet was mobilised and developed in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, but the whole of the Armed Forces and the support personnel of the fleet and the officials of the Air Force and the Drought Army did an unrealisticly old mobilisation, of course, defending our sovereign rights on land, sea and air. With regard to the questions raised, firstly, a brief comment on the Cardits disasters and the involvement of the Armed Forces. You don't have the right information. Tuesday, after the disaster weekend, the Prime Minister had gone to Cardica. Already the Armed Forces were mobilized. Machinery had been placed to assist local society in the very difficult situation there rather than the extensive flooding and damage. It was decided, in consultation with the Regional Governor of Thessaly, that two mobile bridges, the bridges "Baili". It will take rather more, but we are in agreement to find the number needed in the end, although the means are not inexhaustible, as you can see. Of course, the Armed Forces have taken over and through the structures of the First Army the feeding of certain floods with six hundred and fifty on the first day - a thousand portions a day, so that they too can be supported at some point in this difficult time. Before the Prime Minister's visit on Tuesday, these were decided. Therefore, coming about a week later, the Chief of Officerial Opposition and saying that "the government had to do what we did, to distribute the army", I do not understand what it has to do, since the army had already been made available to the services of local society. There are economic and administrative issues which have also been answered in writing and in a number of similar questions that have been put by colleagues in all the groups. The first question, if I'm not mistaken, is whether it was kept during the weekends. But if a standstill of this type with certain security threats to the country is dealt with in terms of work eight hours, you understand that it doesn't even make sense to answer it. Enclosure over a 24-hour basis for as long as needed. That was the situation that prevailed throughout the entire army. From there on it became a new structure in Kara Tepe. You know well that, under law, the assistance of the Ministry in managing the refugee crisis is the address and coordination always in cooperation with the competent departments of other ministries - General Secretariat of Migration Policy, Reception and Asylum of the Ministry of Migration, other public services, social bodies, etc. - refugee flows, however, with regard to residence, feeding and healthcare of refugees and migrants. These are the limits of the Armed Forces' involvement. In this case there was an arson of a hosting structure, illegitimate acts by people already arrested and brought to justice, thousands of refugees and immigrants who were found roaming uncontrolled in Lesvos with what was meant for the safety of the island. As you can see, something had to be done. It was necessary to immediately set up a new, temporary other new structure out of nowhere. And as is done in these cases, the army, following a request for assistance from the relevant ministers, was called into action and brought this project to an end. You are talking about transferring personnel from other units, but at that time businesses were developing in real time rather than in form of exercise. You understand that in these circumstances it is almost impossible to move and reclassify forces. We had to do it with the staff existing in Lesvos, and that's what he responded to. I congratulate him on this self-renunciation, but also on the effectiveness of the project. The ghosts are here. It was, of course, ensured, after my own consultation with the Minister for Civil Protection, that there was security in the area, because there were tensions with local society. They've brought their mission to completion. They worked three hours to set up the scenes of the new temporary structure. On economic issues and overtime compensation, I would like to say that the wages paid by the Armed Forces are specific. A remuneration criterion accepts the need for specific wage treatment of managers. Therefore, it grants an allowance for particular working conditions to indicate the specific nature of their duties and their employment, without working hours or beyond. The circumstances you understand are special. It was very special the previous period. In this context, executives of the Armed Forces serving on the island of Lesvos are granted a monthly allowance of EUR 100 on account of the specific nature of the region, the highest operational preparedness in which the additional tasks arising from the management of the refugee crisis must be situated. A relevant CSR has been issued to set the limit for nighttime working. It is clear to date that the refusal by the relevant Ministry of Finance to sign this Staff Regulations has to do with the budgetary conditions and difficulties and the obligation to safeguard the budget in question. In the context of constant care for the staff, however, as you can see, our will, the will of the ministry's political leadership is the immediate promotion of a new KLA plan to regulate this issue. Inevitably we have to agree with the Ministry of Finance. In this case, which has rightly been the case, the additional payment of financial assistance to the personnel who managed the crisis and actively involved in the crisis in all branches over the last period, has been the relevant consultation with the Ministry of Finance, since the Ministry of Finance recognises, like the entire government and the entire society, the wonderful contribution of the Armed Forces to the response to the threat and the dismantling of the crisis. I hope that will last, but this is another debate. It follows from the above that the institution has recognised the specificity of the work offered by the Armed Forces executives. From that point on, we work closely with the General Accounting Office of the State, exhausting the margins. The margins are not inexhaustible. In any case, what is decided goes through the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, which is ultimately responsible for the payment of allowances and payments and for the officials of the Armed Forces. Finally, from the point of view of the Ministry of Defence and the military service to show the real interest in the personnel who are struggling in difficult conditions, we have decided to proceed with the granting of exceptional financial compensation to all the members and members of the 98 ADD, of this unit of Lesbos, for every day that participated in the organization, execution and supervision of the new temporary service, there in Lesvos, as a minimum recognition of their work. The process is under way. With care of the GSC and the relevant orders have been given to support the staff in this over-representation. No one, especially in the Ministry, disputes that a great deal of effort has been made. It is reasonable that there should be minimum practical recognition and that is when this financial aid is paid. At the same time - the administrative measures will analyse them in my dentistry, because I am already a long way away - to the military personnel who have moved to carry out a duty - from the headquarters of their unit, which is more than sixty km away - and, of course, travel expenses have been paid, in accordance with the legislation in force. The rest, that is, the administrative, permissions, etc., I will have the opportunity to develop them in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, during World War I there was an Italian general named Cadorna, who negatively left his name in history because his troops were uprooted. Why were they uprooted? For while the troops were willing to suffer everything in front of the war front and to suffer all the hardships of the war, they revolted when they realized that the leadership of the army did not care for the elementary, such as feeding and housing of the soldiers, hence the "Cadornism". It is well known that the military complaints, especially in the case of Kara Tepez, have not been properly taken care of by the army's leadership on certain issues. This must not be repeated. I would like to return to an issue concerning the implementation by a joint ministerial decision of Article 127 of Law 4472/2017 on night working hours, which, if I may remind you at some point, was positive. But it's been a year and a half since July 7th 2019 and nothing has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. A risk of military uprising, due to discontent with leadership benefits, I assure you there is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u12	I didn't mean that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u13	On the contrary, the army is totally coordinate, conscious of the criticality of its mission, and I think that the whole society admits, of course, here, in this House, that these people, these men, women, officers, officers, officers, armed forces throughout the hierarchy's pyramid, outweigh themselves in order for Greece to have this umbrella of security and successfully face challenges and threats to its security. I told you about the extraordinary compensation, both in all the three branches involved and mobilised during the recent tension, but also as regards the members of this unit there in Lesvos, who were called under difficult conditions to solve a problem of speed and efficiency and as they know to do, they successfully carried out their duty and built this temporary structure. From there on, with regard to administrative measures - that is to say, certain facilities translated into licences as recognition of this service, this hard work that has been done - the beneficial measures provided for in the existing Ministerial Decision for categories of personnel of the Armed Forces facing particular and acute social problems are implemented in full. In particular, for soldiers carrying out a 24-hour service, provision is made and discharge is given on the next working day, while those performing a Friday, Saturday, Sunday and official holidays are entitled and granted discharge by any day within the next week. Here, the administration of 98 ADTE, recognizing the particular working conditions of its staff and taking into account all its needs, took and provided all necessary administrative measures, such as discharges of services, in order to fully and successfully carry out the mission, without being affected at all - because this is a point, a parameter that we need to take into account - the high operational preparedness, in which this form was set, because of the general and special situation in Lesvos in those days. We went a little further, despite the fact that, as I told you, the correct decisions were taken at unit level to alleviate the staff involved. We decided, together with the General Staff of the Army, as there was agreement between the political leadership, the Chief of the HNDGS and the Chief of the Army, the award of all HND 98 personnel, the specific unit involved in this mission, the moral reward, the so-called congratulations. It's a symbolic, if you like, recognition of their contribution. As I told you, there has been a personal understanding between political and military leadership, the request has been transferred to the hierarchy until the unit command, and we have called for a positive response to all those involved and to be made. Finally, you will allow me to conclude by saying that our care for the personnel of the Armed Forces is a given and lasting one, because, as I said, the Armed Forces' inspiring potential is the real power multiplier. These people, these men and these women, handle the weapon systems, manage the units, extend the umbrella of security, defending our sovereign rights and, above all, being vigilant guards throughout the country's land and sea borders. So we recognize that and to the extent that we can afford it, we reward it as much as we can. We have paid special allowances in the past for those who had been involved in the management of the Evros crisis last March and April. We continue where it is necessary, where necessary, where we can give these small, but also symbolic and undeniably important for the executives who are working - as at the end of the day they are workers on a work of very specific and national critical nature - breaths or aids or wishes, small supports that we can and as required in accordance with our possibilities. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr Tsipras and the Minister. We go to the second with number 1085/28-9-2020 on the second question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papanastasis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Administrators of armed forces who have custody of AMEAs”. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u15	Minister, the question we ask you today, which, if you wish, is also our proposal, carries the desperation of a number of soldiers, who on the one hand have the responsibility of caring for disabled people and, on the other hand, at least to the extent that this depends on the military service, do not allow them to be consistent with this responsibility which, with their will, is responsible for the care of disabled people. We refer to soldiers who have a minor child, who is a disabled person, soldiers who have the custody of a diligent individual who is in charge of a judicial decision, soldiers who have a spouse who are a disabled and female soldiers who have a child until the eighteenth year of that age has been completed. This is not the first time we have asked a question. In response to our previous question, on September 12, 2019 the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Stefanis, informed us that those who have the custody of AMEs only perform services that do not require night stay, are exempted from taking part in exercises under the conditions laid down, as for the same persons a reduced working hours are applied. For a short time after these decisions, the fact is that there were no problems. Very soon, however, it seemed that for some administrations the concept of exercises is part of a subjective interpretation. In other words, they refuse to include in these night exercises that are being performed. As a result, those who are diligent in the LEADER are not entitled to an exemption. Considering that night exercises may last all night long. You understand, Minister, what it means to someone who has not chosen it, but who has just happened to him - and we hope that it will not happen to anyone - to be forced or to leave the person who cares to carry out his service or to get proper permission. We want to believe that you, too, realise that a definitive end must be given to a harsh conflict procedure experienced by those who have military responsibility for disabled people. On the one hand, their professional consistency and their will to perform it, and on the other hand, the huge burden of moral responsibility on them is entirely dependent on human existence. We think it is not complex to finalise with your legislative intervention that exercises include night exercises. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u16	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. There is no doubt that, at the level of the general principle, families in whose ranks a disabled person is a member must be supported, from wherever they come from, of course, whether or not these families are involved with members of the Armed Forces. There is no doubt about that. On the other hand, I come to answer this question unreservedly, because it is the Deputy Minister, Mr Stefanis, who is in the oath of the bandits in Tripoli, but while respecting as political leadership the institution of parliamentary control I have absolutely no doubt of coming in and discussing it. Mr Colleague, you come from the Armed Forces ranks, so I think you know the basic institutional and legislative principles. Firstly, there is no terminology 'night', there is 'night' education'. Exercise of national inter-classical exercises may include night activities. In view of the above, the listing of exercises in the relevant Ministerial Decision includes all the activities that are part of it, and this issue has been addressed, through parliamentary control, by the Ministry and General Staff in detail. It takes our attention to this part of the matter. Let us see what the existing institutional framework provides for in the part concerning the execution of services that do not require nights and their discharge from participation in exercises. Let me not go into the lists of special articles and provisions of law, let me say that it is laid down, on the basis of these relevant provisions, that, among other categories of military personnel, the following perform services only which do not require a night’s stay and are exempt from their participation in exercises, taking into account the nature of their duties following a reasoned recommendation by the Director of the unit of service. First, those who have a minor child of LEI, in the case of coupled military workers, receive the benefit of either of the above, unless the children are more than one, in which case both become beneficiaries. Secondly, those who have custody of HEIs on the basis of a judicial decision. Diligence must be established by means of a valid high-purpose public document. That's the judiciary decision. In order to subdue that provision, the person concerned shall refer to the unit or service which he serves, of course, attaches the relevant supporting documents, a recommendation to the General Staff concerned, in order to decide on the matter. In particular, a child who exercises sole responsibility for the care of an AME child, either in the matter of which it must be ascertained, or in the case of a judicial decision, is exempted from the performance of services and takes part in exercises, if he wishes. The institutions of legal support are, of course, regulated by the relevant provisions of the Civil Code. Not now to go into an analysis of what legal support means for an economy of time. In any event, however, I should like to say that it follows from the mesh of those provisions that there is a regulatory framework for the exemption from the services requiring the stay of those officials who have a child of a small number of persons or who are subject to a judicial decision of a MEP, whether they have been designated as legal entities or not. That's another matter. As regards their participation in exercises, the exemption from them is compulsory only for the parents of a minor child of a HEI and if they exercise their sole custody, whether in the matter or in the case of a judicial decision. On the other hand, it is non-mandatory for the administration, but when considering the request, it must justify any negative action. Therefore, there must be a justification for the negative act by the administration. In view of the nature of the applicants' duties, they should be subject to the relevant provisions. This is the legal dimension of the matter. It has been clarified by the relevant opinion of the Legal Council of the State and, of course, the change in the entire institutional framework is beyond the strict responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice. We are ready to participate actively and with concrete proposals to the relevant ministries to possibly correct this institutional framework, which I think needs to be clarified and more concrete, with regard to the exemption regime for those who, proven to be parents or who have custody, are in the ranks of their family. In my dentistry - let me not develop it now - I will give you some specific figures showing both the extent of the problem and the very satisfying, in my view, range of coverage of this problem from the staff response to the cases before them for their judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u19	Mr Minister, before I enter the essence of dentistry, I think it is important to stress that the problem that we are discussing today has become known to us by a document from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Associations, the WTO, which we were addressing, as was the whole of the parliamentary parties. I stress this because I consider it important that the existence of the collective action of the Armed Forces, that is to say, their trade union action, reflects their personal problems and demands their resolution, while at the same time seeking the proper functioning of their service. It's really impressive and they deserve congratulations. Now, as far as your answer is concerned, I have heard it very carefully, as they have heard and seen it hundreds of soldiers on CSM televisions in their units and elsewhere. They will also see it thousands through the special websites that will be relayed. It is important and I would like to tell you that I really feel uncomfortable that I am forced today to highlight and support the obvious, that people who experience the responsibility of caring for a disabled person do not have two options. They have one and only. Unfortunately for them, when the vast majority of their colleagues return after work at their home for rest, they start a new course on the terrifyingly difficult path of consciousness. In order to understand how blurred the scenery is in the categories of the Armed Forces officials we are discussing, I would like to mention a truly humiliating element. I have listened very carefully to the forecast reading. It is true that there are elements that exist. We are not talking about this. We're talking about if you want the brilliance of this landscape. For example, military supporters with disabilities, i.e. special categories, have a statutory reduced working hour by one hour with remuneration. But it is enough - and I would like you to notice that, Minister - to participate in night-time education - we will not play with the words of night-time education or exercise - not only to eliminate the advantage that the law gives them, but even to exceed the planned weekend. I want to believe that it is understood that it is necessary to take initiatives and relieve them of the conflicts that lead them either to the ambiguity of a piece of legislation or to the lack of understanding of some administrations about what a disabled person is experiencing. In any case, we do not think it is right - and I think it is understandable for you too - that in 2020 we should leave human dignity to the mercy and good will of each administration. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the resolution of this problem, which is really based on some ambiguities of legislation, has no financial burden on the service. It is, moreover, about a not enough number of soldiers. Also - and you can be certain of this - will strengthen the spirit of the unit in which these people serve, with all the beneficial results for the anticipation that the Greek people have of increasing the power of these services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u21	I will not question the substance of your analysis, Mr President. After all, I have served as the State Secretary for Labour, responsible for the welfare of the social ministries, and especially the problems of the HEIs, we have worked them out at a very difficult time. Yiannis Vroutzis, who sits next to me, was the Minister of Labour at that time and remembers the endless hours we were dealing with these issues in order to resolve what was done, as far as possible. But here too, look at my own analysis, and in particular the figures I will quote, to see whether the administration is acting at its best, at its will, as it'smoking' it, to say it popular, or whether it is inclined to comply with the existing legislation, and whether it is in the mood to assist and ease, if you like, by this special burden, the officials of the Armed Forces who belong to this category. First of all, the adoption of the opinion of the Legal Council of the State makes its opinion compulsory. He has given an opinion, and what he said we owed him as the government's political leadership, as an administration, to follow it. From there on, denial of the right to grant facilities because of unambiguous but unequivocal due diligence is not a matter of legality. It is a matter of fact and is linked to the implementation of an already existing rule in the matter. In fact, what is happening, what exactly is happening to the Armed Forces in relation to this problem? The sizes are measurable and listen to them for the last three years. These facilities have been applied for in the subordinated Directorates of OHIM for twenty-five persons. It was all served, 100%. In the army of Dryras nine hundred and six applications were made for subjection to this category. Nine nine executives have been facilitated. Percentage of serviced 98%. At the Navy, we had a hundred sixty-six applications. Sixty-one were approved. One hundred and sixty-one executives, finally, were helped. Percentage of serviced 96.99%. At the Air Force there were hundreds of four applications and ninety - nine were approved. Percentage of services 94%. Therefore, here it is actually shown that demands for night-time education, exercises - okay, I agree, we will not have conflicts with terminology - are overwhelmingly satisfied. I understand the WTO's willingness to raise an issue, but this issue - let me express my humble opinion - with these overwhelming percentages of meeting these demands from the staff, I would not say that it would be a matter of the highest priority. You'll tell me, one not to be satisfied, there's a matter. I can see that. But you can understand, on the other hand, that the vast majority of demands are being met here. So the administration, the General Staff, in this regard, have a good intention to help. I'd say they're in a very good mood to help. And staff-related issues, all the specific problems - and this is a very specific and very serious problem, there is no doubt about that - we really see them with great interest. And it turned out by the percentage, I'd say, response. Finally, I should like to say that if the staff member's application is rejected, there is always, on the basis of the legislation in force, the right to military service within 15 days of the notification of the act of appeal to examine the request to a first and last degree by the inter-institutional Committee on Social Problems. In particular, over the past three years, only five members have appealed. It is only five officials who have filed this complaint and I think that this shows, firstly, that the rate of fulfilment of the claims in question is very high and, secondly, that there is another way, if you like, the highest level of crisis of this nature. To conclude, I would point out that the status of military personnel is aimed at the smooth and smooth functioning of the military service. The service must be satisfied, of course, within the framework of a fair and effective legal framework, which covers above all - because this is the specific nature of the army, if you wish - the service and operational requirements, but also - and this is the difficult balance to be observed - the personal and social needs of the officials, in order, above all, to ensure the operational preparedness of the Armed Forces, but also the preparedness of the personnel to assist in this higher purpose. Yes, we will have the intention to ask for a review of the institutional framework, but I think that the problem is not so great, as the WTO describes it at least, given the actual response of the staff to such situations. But - and I will always agree here with you - we can go better until we go - let me say it like this - and 100% excellent. That's at least the mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you both. We move on to the second with number 1079/28-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Application of a Court of Auditors decision on the equalisation of age limits between men and women with minors, until 31/12-2010, children". Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that there has been and continues to be totalitarian provisions of insurance, pension provisions and not just. There are too many rulings in the courts, including national and European. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] In 2009, the European Court of Justice - as it is well known - took a decision on the basis of equal treatment between men and women, namely on age limits. Because until then - as is well known - we had a general pension limit of fifty years for women and sixty-five years for men. This decision was incorporated into National Law with Law 3865 and since 2011 there was equal treatment with age limits. In 2020, with resolution 317, the Court of Auditors' plenary came and took a decision and justified a man who called for this equal treatment to exist for 2010 as well. That is, the arrangements for the pensionability of twenty-five years with a minor in 2010, since he had a minor in 2010, should apply to both men and the public. It is a decision that needs to be addressed, to see how it can be applied more widely, justifying all those in the same category. At the same time, of course, there are also cases where we have judges on the contrary. In other words, we have court rulings, which, while granted by the IKA, for example, or by insurance funds, this right to retirement in 2010, then at the IKA's appeal, came to another court and decided that pension was wrongly granted. And what happened? They're asking for a part of people's life back, either homes, cash or anything. A problem has been created. So we have some judicial decisions, we have a real problem in society and we have to deal with it. And I ask my question: what are the government's intentions to incorporate the Court of Auditors' decision and to what extent does the government intend to apply it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglou, according to Article 56(1) (b) of the Code of Civil and Military Pensions up to 30-12-2010, it was planned for women with minors, who were first recruited in the State after 1983, to be able to retire with the completion of twenty-five years of actual pensionable service and to complete the fiftyth year of their age. On the other hand, for men's children's fathers who were first employed in the public office from 1 January 1983 to 31 December 1992 and who had completed twenty-five years of actual service up to 30-12-2010 were foreseen as a retirement age in the sixteenth year of their age, growing from that date and by six months for each calendar year until the sixty-fifth year of their age. The relevant provisions of the Civil and Military Staff Code which have accorded different treatment between men and women in respect of retirement age and the minimum required pension based service infringe the principle of equal treatment for the payment of the remuneration. Under the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 11 of Article 6 of Law No.3865/2010 from 1-1-2011 in the context of the pension equation of men and women insured under the same personal family circumstances, male employees of minors were also allowed to retire at the same solar limit as female children's children's mothers. In particular, in 2011, twenty-five years of actual service were required and the fifty-second year of age was completed. The year 2012 required the completion of twenty-five years of actual service and the completion of the fifty-fifth year of age. In the year 2013, twenty-five years of actual service were required and the sixty-fifth year of age for both women and men insured who were recruited or appointed to the public after 1-1-1983 and 31-12-1992. The transitional provisions of Article 6 of Law 3865/2010 were adopted for reasons of legal certainty in order not to call into question the legitimate expectation of those who had established a pension right in accordance with the legislation in force until the adoption of Law 3865/2010. In view of the severe budgetary crisis in which the country passed since 2010, the above age limits for the establishment of a pension entitlement have been re-amended by the provisions of Law 4093/2012 and Law 4336/2015. Thus, for those who complete the twenty-fifth year from 1-1 to 2013, this favourable pension treatment of men and women of civil servants is now stopped in relation to the rest of the staff and is set the sixty-seventh year of their age as a single age limit for retirement, which is the general retirement age limit for all Greeks. The absolute balance and alignment has now come to light for the entire Greek people. It is not the private field of children of a lower god. All the same, public and private sectors. It was a proper legalization. Mr. Kegeroglou was State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and then we took this brave decision for the benefit of the Greek people and the insurance system, but also for the sake of justice. From the above increase in retirement age, men and women who have a child unmarried and incapable of practicing every biopolitical profession by more than 67% are excluded. The Court of Auditors has recently held, in application of the constitutional principle of equal treatment for men and women, that the father of a minor child, who has established a pension right until 31/12/2010 under the same conditions as for a female employee, a minor child, that is to say, the fifty-year-old child. These decisions, however, concern only the parties and do not, for a general application, bind to the first degree the e-ECA pension addresses. In addition, this decision of the Court of Auditors considers a particular case. One case of a civil servant, a father of a minor child, who had applied for retirement in 2014, i.e. before the adoption of Law No.4336/2015 establishing a single pension threshold for all. Therefore, national legislation has not extended the favourable provisions for both men and men, but the gradual abolition of these, considering that they have now fulfilled the objective for which they had initially been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u26	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u27	Minister, Mr L.3865, but also the other issues that established a transitional period, in order to smoothly move from unequal treatment to equal treatment, which would 'justify' the category of women, because of the upward equation, was obviously a very good choice, which has been made from the outset. There is no question of this either by judicial decision or by the decision of the European Council. Where there is the problem is, what was in place for 2010. Because, while the judgment of the European Court of Justice has been delivered since 2009, as you know very well, we have legislated from 1-1-2011 onwards. There is one gap for 2010, for which the Court of Auditors' decision was adopted. So there is a real issue that we need to deal with. It's not about the rest of the time. You quite rightly said that it has moved forward, it has been equated, this situation has been normalized. But we have a court ruling. And the judicial decision, as you know, on retrospectives and others is made at the request of certain people, but it highlights a problem that concerns more. So that's what I'm asking. On the basis of this 2010 judgment, will you take care of the vacancy left by L.3865 after the judgment of the European Court of Justice and the vacancy left by L.3865? Have you looked at the financial costs and how many are involved, to identify them? In addition, let's say the other side. There were pension decisions that were adopted following local committees in IKA on the basis of this principle. In other words, the local commissions of applicants, which were initially rejected, were drafted and, after years, a judicial decision was taken that since it was not legislated for 2010 at the end of the day - in any case, for the reasons the court judged, we should not say whether it was legal or not, because if it had been legislated, it would of course have been solved - it would have been wrong to do so. This is a real problem faced by about five hundred people who ask for part of their lives back after all these years. You can imagine that there is no possibility. In many cases there are no homes. In other words, people should go inside. To those who have their homes seek back the money, which they have taken as retired persons. The tragic thing is that they are told: "Apart from turning the money back on us, you are not entitled to a pension from now on." They are told: 'You are not entitled to a pension from now on, you have not completed the years required'. It is therefore a real problem that must be tackled with the decision of the court and because this situation has been created in some five hundred of our fellow citizens. And that's 2010. Of course, and it's not simple. Of course, and it's not a decision of the moment. But, Minister, I think you should examine, exhausting all possibilities, and see what you are going to do for 2010. We must implement this decision of the Court of Auditors and implement it in a way that will solve the other problem, which has been caused and which will justify people. This will definitively close the transitional phase from the judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2009 to the biennial...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u28	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u29	...because there will really be no further question, except for the year in question 2010. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Please, keep up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u33	I thank Mr Kegeroglu once again for this question. I won't speak text. I would like to say two - three headings on the occasion of Mr Kegeroglu's question concerning this question, which I would like to extend a little further. Because in this Chamber there are people with great parliamentary experience, I would like to remind you that one of the main causes of our country's financial derailment was insurance, which was abused over time by political logic and governments, in the sense that it was, unfortunately, used over time as a means of customer relationship with pensioners. And that was a tragic mistake, which we paid. Unfortunately, our country's insurance system had become a mosaic of exceptions and special schemes. I would like to repeat the word: mosaic of exceptions and special schemes. It had turned into a fragmented system, full of bureaucracy, complexity, opacity, which, of course, brought the well-known results: huge budgetary burdens on the state budget, disproportionate to what the insurance system had to pay and which led to where it led to the country's entire financial derailment. The insurance company has a large share. That's the reality. It's not my view. It's a registered view of all parties. After 2010, really, many things began to enter a proper order. We organized the insurance on another basis. We have moved on as a political system up to the last legislature, the great insurance reform 4670/2020, which I - I have said many times - is that it is the reform of the insurance that condensates the best practices than L.3863/2010 and thereafter. We keep the best evidence. Financially, insurance reform has been measured and the system is sustainable and reliable. For the first time, insurance reform was submitted here with a fiscal study by the National Analogue Authority. We have now entered a normal course of an insurance system, which is both reliable and viable and attractive and rewarding and cultivating insurance. The specific question Mr Kegeroglu raises comes to answer the Ministry that it is something we will see. I don't want to be negative, nor today to take a position. It is something that we will consider, because it is costing. It has a specific budget expenditure. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] On the other hand, we have shown that we respect judicial decisions. What I want to state clearly and explicitly to all sides of this House, because no Minister of Labour is permanent as we all do our political circles, is: Whee and alas to that Minister who will decide at some point to break down the insurance system again, to make it to pieces and to cut it into the logic of synergy perceptions and interests. The rules on insurance must be uniform. It must be fair to all Greeks. Retirement limits should be the same for all Greeks, not feel that they are a first or a second category. These are basic principles - pillars for a fair insurance system that our country needed, and now we can say that it has. So we will see the decision of the Court of Auditors on the basis of our capabilities and resilience and our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. We move to the third under number 1073/23-9-2020 on the first question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Labour Inspectors' Body". Mr Katsotis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I oppose what has already been said about insurance, but I cannot say that this was the result of workers' hard struggles, that is, the existence of insurance, and once again the hard struggles of workers will bring the conquests that are necessary to meet their needs. I'm coming to the question. With the publication of the news of a case of COVID -19 in the central building of the Ministry of Labour, the degree of deterioration of the Labour Inspectors' body has emerged under the responsibility of today, but also of all previous governments. Submiting the Labour Inspectorate to the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Labour from the Government has come to confirm the timeless government policy of degradation and depreciation of the Labour Inspectorate, a demand of course the capital that is being met. We would like to point out here that it is not accidental to make the seventh report of enhanced surveillance, which has recently been adopted by the Commission, which shows that it is the responsibility of labour disputes that passes through the FIFG. We also want to say that what we see if health and safety controls are being carried out is that they are often not oriented towards employers' responsibility, but are shifting responsibility over workers' backs and technical security. There is no design and no provision for mass screening at workplaces. There's been no campaign. The only seven hundred fifty employees, who have left to serve the Labour Inspectors' College, have actually been converted into a body serving the information system ‘ERGANI’. As they denounce, in 2019, only two hundred health and safety inspectors were serving throughout Greece in the battlefield and fewer than fifty in Attica. In order to control every operation once, it would take several decades. The implementation of rotation work in services means that each part of the inspection operates with one or two inspectors on a daily basis, covering vast areas with thousands of workers. On the substance of the matter, the Labour Inspectors' Chamber has been abolished and, in the midst of a pandemic, indeed. All this at a time when the protection of the health of workers and the whole of the people from the COVID pandemic -19 requires mass controls to be carried out at the large workplaces, where the cases of day after day are increasing, as was demonstrated by the spread of the Pella Prefecture, from the packing plant in Giannitsa, Koropi, Halkidiki and elsewhere. In events of the second pandemic wave, health protocols are implemented by business groups on the basis of profits and the service of their interests, of course jeopardizing the health and safety of workers and the people. What we are asking is: How many checks have been carried out on what companies have been carried out in recent years by the EIA? What fines have been imposed on undertakings that, in the absence of protection measures, jeopardise public health? What measures does it intend to take in order to provide a sufficient service to the Labour Inspectors' College with permanent appointments to meet the enormous over-period needs? What design is there from the APRC for mass controls? Is he going to abolish the law rendering the APRC a simple directorate of the Ministry, whose head does not have jurisdiction for any of the staff permits?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Please keep the time. Last Friday I let you talk as long as you wanted to because there was nothing else. Today is the question of the Change Movement after.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u37	You say that to me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u38	No, I'm saying it in general. The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutz. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Katsotis for giving me the opportunity to answer a question which in recent years sees the light of publicity from specific political aspects in the sense that they are trying to cancel, question the work of the EIC, which is the most neural and central arm of the Ministry of Labour not today, over time. It is the central arm of defending workers' rights. I would therefore like to thank you for confirming, Mr Katatotis, that you do not know the reality of the EIA or its activity. And I want to answer you through the parliamentary process. So I say to you that the Labour Inspectorate is the competent authority that controls, monitors, supervises and imposes in the event of violations of administrative and criminal sanctions on undertakings and holdings of the primary, secondary and tertiary sector. The work of APRC inspectors is to supervise and monitor the implementation of the provisions of labour law, as well as to investigate the insurance coverage and illegal employment of workers. I note that their role, in addition to auditing, is both co-formulative and advisory and guidanceal. Now, as far as your allegations about the alleged abolition of the EIC during the pandemic period are concerned, I have only to say: firstly, throughout the COVID pandemic -19 the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, beyond supporting the employment of workers, was the main priority of protecting health and safety at the workplace. The APRC as the primary control mechanism of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs during the pandemic period carried out extensive implementation checks, both under existing legislation on safety and health at work and the emergency specialised measures of public health and health protocols - distance maintenance, use of a mask and the rest - to prevent the spread of pandemic. Secondly, in addition, the APRC inspectors are among the control bodies which are responsible for ensuring that these emergency and emergency public health measures are implemented to address the risk of the spread of COVID-19 infection. And thirdly, in the context of dealing with exceptional labour market conditions due to COVID and towards improving the working environment for workers and, at this point in time, particular attention was paid to monitoring the compliance of job suspensions, as well as to the work programme, and, obviously, in cases where the penalties were found, the penalties provided for were imposed. In addition, I would like to say that the APRC - along with its audit work in the framework of its advisory and guidance role towards employers and workers - has, from the very first moment, provided information through the issue of dozens and multiple press releases and Circulars - directives. He participated in meetings organised by local regions for the implementation of health protocols and the coordination of the relevant control mechanisms, with a view to better addressing the problem. In cooperation with the National Transparency Authority, the Greek Police carried out extensive checks throughout the country. Therefore, the RESF is not only afflicted and degraded one, on the contrary it is more powerful and more staffed than ever, as you will see with the data I will give you in my dentistry. In any case, my dear colleague, I cannot honestly understand your allegations of inexistence and prediction of checks, claims that I will prove to be unfounded, unfounded and expose you with the evidence that I will quote in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u41	I have to say that this fatal situation, as you see it in workplaces, shows that what you say is for people's consumption. The systematic undermining by all the Governments of the Labour Inspectorate results in the inability to implement any incomplete legislation. Today the subsecution of the Labour Inspectorate shows its limits. I also said in my prototype that there are seven hundred fifty all over Greece and in 2019, two hundred twenty labour, health and safety inspectors in the first line combat services. In Attica, where there are a total of many employees, they serve fifty. Minister, you say you have taken steps against COVID. The call you made to avoid crowding stops outside the factory and service gates. Of course it has nothing to do with the public transport situation with what you are claiming. It is incomplete to record the accidents at work in our country. Even these accidents are recorded, they are not made public in time. And here your responsibilities are great. It is characteristic that, only in July 2020, ELSTAT made the report on the accidents at work of 2018 public, while the APR has not yet published any data on accidents at work in 2018 and 2019. ELSTAT’s data relate, in particular, to EFCA’s insured persons. It appears from these figures that the growth in recent years has continued. For example, five thousand thirty-thirty-six accidents are recorded in 2018 compared with four thousand nine hundred fifty-four in 2017. Fatal accidents remain at high levels, considering that only according to ELSTAT figures in 2018 were forty-six fatal in 2017 and forty-seven in 2018. The responsibility for this situation, of course, is borne by both the Government of New Democracy and by SYRIZA. Based on the few elements that have seen the light of publicity, it is indicative that in July 2019-September 2020 - in your term of office - there have been hundreds of ten accidents at work with ninety-four workers injured and twenty-five dead. And you're telling me it's all right! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We want to point out this: hundreds of thousands are the workers who work without respecting the specific protection measures for the pandemic. In many workplaces there are no minimum measures, such as good ventilation, frequent disinfection, observance of workers' distances, cleanliness. There's no control here. The vulnerable groups are in a more difficult position, especially in areas affected, of course, which can function multiplierly in the way the virus is influenced and in the appearance of serious symptoms. In addition, through the FPI you have made it even more difficult for vulnerable groups to work. Although under the legislation occupational diseases should be recorded and reported in the Labour Inspectorate, they are in fact not recorded in our country. In this situation, the absence of a COVID -19 as an occupational disease for workers, such as health, tourism, transport and other sectors, will also be added.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u42	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u43	I'm done. Minister, workers are not a consumable species. Their lives are invaluable. They cannot fail or even more consent to employers' practices and governments' policies that put their lives at risk. The health and safety committees set up by the workers or must set up workplaces, the protection of those elected by employers' terrorism and redundancies - you want no protection - and their operation, on the basis of fundamental criteria, the measures to protect the health and safety of workers are the conditions which can reverse the deadly situation created in the workplaces. They must claim the staffing of labour inspectorates with a doctor and a technician of work and safety, not even in the Ministry of Labour with hundreds of workers, you do not have the rules laid down and those necessary to ensure the health of workers from accidents and occupational diseases. The JRC will give as many powers as it has to strengthen the fight of workers in this direction. Of course, the questions we asked you were left unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. No, Mr Catasta, the questions you asked me will now be answered and overthrow everything you said as inaccurate and unrealistic. In particular, first of all, the issue of the checks carried out and the fines imposed, which you mentioned, I responded: According to the data from the EIA for the period from 1-12020 to 31-8-2020, 12 thousand nine hundred four audits were carried out for industrial relations and two thousand sixty-one fines were imposed totalling EUR 6,542,517. Secondly, ten thousand sixty-three health and safety checks, where three hundred forty-six fines were imposed. And thirdly, a thousand hundred and eighty-seven audits of special inspectors, where a hundred and five fines were imposed. In other words, all the controls for the above period were twenty-four thousand and fifty-four, where a total of two thousand five hundred two fines totalling EUR 7,335,646 were imposed. That is the truth, Mr Kattotis, that overthrows everything you have said. I think that these figures are indisputable witnesses to the activities of the APRC, but also a reality that you will allow me to say that you are missing. As you can see, despite the objective difficulties of COVID -19 - unless you ignore them - which all of the public authorities are facing, and more especially the inspectors of the APRC, special-purpose licences, authorisations of vulnerable groups, presence in the workplaces of workers has been felt and universal, while the number of checks carried out has never deviated from the initial annual programming. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] In addition, for sectors of activity or work where increased infractions have been found through the frequency of accidents at work or the existence of new occupational risks have been designed and implemented immediately, targeted control programmes. In fact, it is currently being implemented under the number 150089/11-5-2020 circular of the APRC and will last until the end of the exceptional measures in force as a result of a pandemic such a programme of targeted controls based on the specific circular of the Ministry of Labour and the APRC, with the sole object of preventive measures taken at workplaces and to protect the health of workers from the risk of COVID -19. Under this programme, it has been checked by 31-8-2020 - another is this - three thousand four hundred thirty-seven companies and pan-Hellenic holdings and seventeen administrative penalties and fines have been imposed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, your allegations of non-existence or failure of the AAR or of non-controlling of the AAR were answered with the information I gave you. Secondly, with regard to your question about the staffing of the APRC, I am pleased to say to you, Mr Katsotis, that the APRC today has the largest number of employees ever, compared to the past. Why? Today, there are seven hundred forty-six employees in the AAR - you rightly said the number - of whom labour inspectors are three hundred sixty and health inspectors at work are two hundred forty-one. At the same time, the RCF proceeded with the support with staff through the recruitment procedures of the AACC with fifty three permanent categories of RCF and TN, which will be finalised in the next few months and will be recruited and measured in the strength of the RCF. Secondly, within the first five months of 2020, the first cycle of mobility of fifty-two employees operating the EDP service was completed. And thirdly, they have been allocated to cover annual recruitment programming 2020-2021 through the recruitment procedures of the AACC seventy-five permanent staff RCM, TE and TE in Greece. In practice, that is, as much as the human resources of the RCF have ever been compared. As far as your question about changing the law on SEAs is concerned, I think we have exhausted that. We have answered from the outset that, according to d.c. 84/2019, the AAR was integrated into the General Secretariat of Work. No degradation. It has barely been organised and operated much better. That is the answer I have to give you. But, apart from the text, I should like to add two - three other things, which the service actors did not write in the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u46	You don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, before you you have a man who has the honour - because it is a great honour - to be Minister of Labour and in 2012-2014 and today. In particular, on the subject of controls, I personally had eaten too much time and the will of the government's political leadership, and now it was to deal with infractions in the labour market effectively rather than with words. It's not just human resources, it's the policies you practice and the way you practice them. In 2013, in Greece, the only innovative tool called "ERGANI" was built. What is "ERGANI"? It is the electronic shield for workers. How are APRC auditors doing auditing today? With the 'ERGANI', Mr President, with what Brutsis created in 2013 - which was challenged by all parties at the time as ineffective, which does not only enable mapping electronically into real time the labour market to know everything in the labour market, wages, image of businesses, but is also the safest and most reliable tool of labour inspectors - labour inspectors are doing checks today. I'm sorry about the personal report, but I'm saying it because I hear criticism. This is today the workers' electronic shield. That's what controls are going on. Secondly, I am announcing that the forthcoming reform of the work we will have a lot of talk to do, Mr Katsotis, is coming 'ERGAN 2'. What are we going to do about "ERGAN 2"? The digital working hours are now coming forward throughout Europe. The digital hours will record up to two seconds of working time. No one will be able to escape, neither a worker nor an employer. Absolute recording of the time, combined with the worker's card. Historically, one can see which government and what policies they really defended the worker, because if the seven hundred fifty of the APRC do them a thousand, the effectiveness, if you don't have the evidence, will not be the same as those tools. The tools give you the power to judge, to be the controller from the outside and to record what the potential is, to know everything. In addition, I would remind you that for my day the fine, which was challenged at the time, was introduced in 10,50, which hit undeclared work at the root. I would remind you that in June 2013 undeclared work, Mr Tryphoda Alexiadis, was 42.3%. With the 10,500 combined with the "ERGANI", today it is in a one-digit number. That is the reality, Mr Katatotis. I respect your views, but I want you to know that we are making every effort, because for us, infrastructural and undeclared work is not just social, but also economic crime, and that is how we deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u49	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u50	No, Mr. Katsotis, I don't have time. I know, it's serious, I hear it with interest, but we don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u51	Workers live reality and this has nothing to do with it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you both very much. We continue with the first under number 1074/25-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Piraeus MP for the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Will the retrospectives of pensioners be protected against seizures and netting with debts?" Mr. Alexiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Normally this timely question shouldn't have taken place and it shouldn't have taken any time and I shouldn't have delayed the ministers and you and the staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u54	I'll agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u55	... because since 29 July, when the relevant amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Labour - I think - and the Ministry of Finance, I had raised with my position in the House the question whether these retrospectives, i.e. the refund of money which the New Democracy had cut down by order, whether or not the repayment of this money would be inappropriate, as laid down in other relevant provisions, as we voted a few days ago on the aid for the flooders. There was no answer then. Many times since my public interventions, but here in the House I have been asking the relevant ministers whether these retroactive or not will be irresponsible. I didn't get a reply. Some Members present in the New Democracy - their names have been recorded in the Minutes and I will put them on the Internet - they have made it a little irony. In any case, we hope that there will be a clear answer today and that it will be clear whether the pensioners' retrospectives - which the New Democracy had cut down at the time, and now with the amendment, which was put forward on 29 July - will, of course, be returned, but will be returned - or part of it - and whether there will be a clear provision, which will stipulate that it is inappropriate. In other words, the tax office, the insurance fund, and the money that will be reimbursed to the retired person to offset them with other debts or to confiscate them, will not come. We ask the timely question whether the existing institutional framework protects them, because I have not found any relevant provision, nor does the amendment stipulate it, and if it does not define the existing institutional framework, we have asked the Ministry to legislate on this. So we expect this answer from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have three minutes to answer Mr. Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is obviously difficult for the Corps party to accept that the New Democracy Government is coming with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to pay pensioners the sums corresponding to cuts and reductions in main pensions. This is no longer a declaration of intent, it is a commitment by the Prime Minister, who has been implemented by law. This is a sum of EUR 1.4 billion for main private sector pensions, but there is also an extension and implementation for public pensioners too. They will be paid in October. It will become one-off as to the amount to which each pensioner is entitled. Because you have experience, especially Mr Alexiadis, you know that this sum of EUR 1.4 billion goes beyond the country's budgetary limits. Besides, the Prime Minister spoke with sincerity to the pensioners, committed and acted on the payment of retrospectives, and even at a time when measures have already been implemented to tackle the pandemic for the unemployed, workers and professionals. The government is dealing with all outstanding issues requiring legislative intervention. It is assumed that the specific amounts to be collected by pensioners will be inappropriate and shall not be subject to compensation. In my dentext I shall refer to the legislation that will be voted on in the House. The government's acceptance of more than a year from the day when the people's mandate took over the responsibility of governance is at high levels. This assessment is made by the citizens. And they positively assess the government, because this government works together, there is a measurable result, which is addressed with honesty to society, citizens judge and, above all - something that does not like Civicism - compare. Clearly, therefore, the amounts of retroactives to pensioners will be inappropriate and will not be netted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for keeping time. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I am particularly pleased that Mr Vésiropoulos, the Minister, has responded. I am particularly pleased that this may be the first time that a Minister's reply confirms what we have said since the first day that the amendment has been tabled by the government and confirms what I have been saying so far 'in a fair manner' on this matter. So you do well to recognise that as a government in your amendment of 29 July 444/68 you have not predicted - I understand that there are internal problems of coexistence, I do not want to interfere with your family - to be irresponsible. But you have gladly heard the proposals for counter-population, and now you say it will be regulated. Then in your House, we read in the Minutes - I never want to talk about absentees - such as Mr Boutsikakis, Mr Boutsikakis and other Members present on the government party have ironed my question with phrases such as 'but what are you saying and suggesting that it is inappropriate?' You are now saying very well, Minister, that you will cover this void and you will bring a provision to cover this issue. That's what I've been asking for since 29 July. I am glad that I, too, contributed with the few parliamentary powers to resolve such a key issue. In other words, the retrospectives which the New Democracy had cut down following a decision of justice will be returned, even if they are unpopular, even with unacceptable legal and political blackmail. These retrospectives will not be under threat of settling, taxes or confiscations. It's a good start. I hope that other legislative interventions that will solve problems will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry. Although you said everything and Mr Alexiadis is pleased.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u61	Mr Colleague, as I have said in my prototype, legislation will be tabled immediately, which will provide that: Firstly, pensioners' retrospectives will be unaccompanied and irresponsible in the hands of the public or third parties. Secondly, pensioners’ retrospectives will not be bound and offset by certain debts towards tax administration and public administration, municipalities, insurance funds and banks. I think that our positions are perfectly clear and give an even clearer answer to the basic question you raise. The payment of the retrospectives and the legislation which will be tabled in the next few days and the main points I have just given you are a move towards respect, social responsibility and sensitivity. I must also point out that the retrospectives are being paid in a difficult economic and budgetary situation. But we are in a position to move on to it having maintained reserves but also with the confidence of the markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. The fourth question under number 1083/28-9-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of MP B2 West Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Hotel with pool, the government's vision of historical monuments". Mr Arseni, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we usually accuse the government that it does not send the government's principal minister, but it is replaced by the State Secretarys. In your case, you really are responsible for answering the question as you were dean, the crucial decision was taken. I shall refer to your statements first. We're talking about the Kastelli hill and the three monuments that are there. It is monuments based on the laws of the Greek state. Some monuments are before 1830. There is also a younger who is the Cretan State Headquarters. These three monuments in this historic site, which is no other than the Acropolis, the administrative center of Minoan Kydonia and then of ancient Chania, Byzantine, Venetian, Ottoman and later period, give the decision of the polytechnic to a private person to make a hotel. It is about privatization of the archaeological site, the heart of the archaeological site of Chania. We have a Minoan palace whose representation we have. You give it to private people too. In our statements, however, you refer to making full use of the historical history of buildings with free access from all visitors. I would really like to see the truth of this statement, how this is in line with the pools that we have seen in the investor's carton, how this is in line with the statements, with the articles of the contract, that 'the lease company is obliged to allow specific access areas'. No relationship. You also mention that its exploitation will have significant economic and development benefits for the University of Crete. The use over the hill of the whole, just for the buildings, three thousand square meters, with taxes, is about 200,000 euros a month. The University, the University, can rent three thousand square meters for its needs with this amount? Oh, no. Not at the most historic point and the most predicted point of Chania, but nowhere! And all of this at the same time that he gave you, at the polytechnic, went through the budget account, from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of National Defence to which he belonged since '79 he was rented at the polytechnics, and in '86 he sold to cover housing needs. Because we wanted universities to be in the middle of towns, to resurrect public buildings and to be neural, to be the city's dynamics and every city. That's the way it was, and that's politics. That is why I want you to answer me - and I thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance - to the simple questions. First, will you finally make the contract public? At last, do you commit? We want you to ban universities and polytechnics from selling and renting public spaces, which are public money and which are archaeological and historical sites. I think it's self-evident. I conclude by a statement from Mrs Kefaloniann: 'The government should understand that the country's cultural reserve is not sold. Our monuments are not traded. Let him do what the Constitution requires immediately." I agree with that view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Good morning, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Because there has been enormous misinformation on this issue, I will ask for your tolerance, which I never do. Mr Arsenis, thank you for the question that gives me the opportunity to answer all this information. I have to start my response to the timely question you have put, highlighting the many and important inaccuracies. I dare say that the only precise point, which exists in your question, is what is mentioned in my written statement, which took place in the evacuation of the Cretan Division building, in the Old Town of Chania, which has been under illegal occupation since 2004. I am now starting with the inaccuracies that your question has. Inaccuracy First: The buildings on the hill Kastelli of the Old City were not granted in 1986 against a symbolic price, as you mentioned in your question, but against 103 million drachmas, particularly high for the data of the time. Inaccurate second: with the seller - which I am tabling today in the Minutes of the House and which I have done in the past - the University of Crete acquired the full ownership of the buildings, without any conditions and commitments regarding the use. All data relating to the property regime have been publicly presented in a relevant press release published by the University of Crete on July 18, 2017. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Third inaccurate: The group as a dean did not proceed to any auction of the three buildings. An open public tender was conducted for the rental and not for the sale of the buildings by the company for the exploitation of the University of Crete, following relevant decisions by the collective bodies and the institution's consortium. Irregularity fourth. The whole process, on the basis of these decisions on the development of the buildings, was completed with the signing of the contract before the Ministry of Culture proceeded with the designation of the building of the Division as a new monument and not after, as you say. The contract between the recovery company, the University of Crete, and the company that won the tender was signed on 4 August 2017. The unanimous joint opinion of the CAS, the Central Archaeological Board, the Central Council of Modern Monuments that characterise the building of the Division as a new monument was decided at a joint meeting in December 2017. I would stress that no restriction of use is made in this decision. I'm filing the FEK of proclamation of the building of the Division as a newest monument. I am also tabling the FEK in which it is laid down that the hill Kastelli, which is the three buildings, as a protection zone II and not as zone I, that is to say as an absolute protection zone. To leave what you were saying in your prototype. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned FECs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am concerned that the Ministry of Culture in a government of SYRIZA recalled to consider the issue of the designation of the building of the Division as a new historical monument only in June 2017, that is, thirteen years after the building was being held under an illegal occupation. In fact, although the University of Crete has three historical buildings in Lofos Kastelli, the Services of the Ministry of Culture then chose to protect only the building in which the captivity was found. Inaccurate fifth: There is no question of building a large-scale hotel on the Kastelli hill, unless you consider that large hotel units are those that have about forty rooms, as foreseen in the investment. Mr Arseni, hypocrisy, ideology and the deliberate distortion of reality are on the increase in this matter over time. The building of the Division has had considerable deteriorations and significant static problems. The Engineering Laboratory, the Technical Service of the University of Crete, the Construction Department of Chania, the Service of Modern Monuments of Crete and the Committee of Article 41 of Law 3028 have pointed it out in official documents. I have said many times, unfortunately, that the institutions of Chania were absent when the Polytechnic University of Crete in 2010 called for the evacuation of the building of the Division to proceed with the restoration projects with a guaranteed funding of 4.5m euros. The competition had already been made with the promotion of a contractor after a tendering procedure, in order to house the institution in training activities. There are responsibilities, since, while pre-contractual audit by the Court of Auditors, the contract was not signed with the result that the money and the opportunity of restoring the Division building were lost. And he who did not invite the contractor to sign the contract, then the dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete, was a candidate with Mera25 in the July 2019 elections. And not only that, SYRIZA executives were openly supporting squats. In fact, the SYRIZA County Committee of Chania visited me when I took office as a dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete in 2013 and its members directly asked me what I intend to do about the illegal occupation in the building of the Division, openly supporting Rosa Nera and stressing that she is doing valuable cultural and social work. The conversation is over when I told them they were illegal. In my dentistry I will have the opportunity to talk about the contract and to clarify more issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u67	Minister, saying a Member of Parliament something inaccurate goes and comes. But to quote so many inaccuracies that a Minister from the Government Step when he knows the truth, I let it be judged by the citizens. I will take one - one of the points to which you have referred, but without losing the substance and going back to the main questions. Allowed, you say, with 130 million. He was awarded with drachmas that went from a public code, the budget of the Ministry of Education, Mr. State Secretary, to the budget code of the Ministry of Defence. They didn't get in from private money. The public was transferred from one child to another. Full ownership without preconditions and commitments. The concession was made for housing needs and this refers to the concession. A contract was signed before the Division was declared a monument. But, well, Minister, you don't know the archaeological law? Don't you know that all the rest of the buildings were preached automatically because they were before 1830? Is that what you came to tell the House unregulated? You know very well that the monuments that are in the public's hands are generally not declared by the services. Recently privatizations began to preach too late. Good or bad was the practice, because it was an incomprehensible monument in the public's hands to privatize. You say it's not an archaeological zone of absolute protection. But obviously nowhere is there archaeological zone within a densely populated town that is a zone. Obviously, they are not, and are, second area compulsory, since there is constant residence to date. Now you want to tell us that, so as not to fall into the building of the Division, you are selling the three thousand-stranded buildings of three hundred square meters and the vast area of the Kastelli hill? Is that why you build a pool on the wall, on the Minoan Kydonia we know and have a representation since antiquity what it was like? And where he's out there, once we dig, we'll find her, just like she's back a little bit. You sell it to a company that was created the year of competition, in 2017, which, based on the General Commercial Register, had not submitted to date a balance sheet, according to the information we found in the GFCM, which appears to have a share capital of EUR 150,000. How will an investment of 18,000,000 euros be made by a company with a share capital of 150,000 euros, Secretary of State? And all this about this company, which will need to spend money immediately more than its capital. There is, of course, a contract and a related clause on the suspension of payments after the seventeenth month and if he cannot pay. All this creates a very bad image for our citizens and our society. We have a decision to privatise one of the most important archaeological sites in Minoan Crete. You are privatising a Minoan palace in practice, three monuments of the Ottoman and previous period, but also of the Cretan State for an incomplete amount to a company, which does not seem to have the capital to do. And because you know from tourism, because you have been holding up to recently, and you have also been tourism, it is very important that very detailed and convincing answers are given, which can only be one of what Mrs Kefaliannis has asked you to do in public. "Our monuments are not traded. Let the Government immediately do what is required by the Constitution.' Is that true? Will you apply them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Mr. Digalakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u69	Mr Arseni, unfortunately, you are obviously confused and the inaccuracies I mentioned in my prototype have continued at a more rate in your dentext. You're talking about concessions only for housing reasons at the concession. I just filed the seller in my protology, which has no restriction on use. Take it from Parliament's Secretariat, read it. You're talking about selling. You told me we were selling the three buildings. No building is sold nor can that be done. The buildings are owned and will be owned by the Polytechnic University of Crete. There has been a lease agreement for the three buildings, as I shall refer to in more detail below. You are talking about the credibility of the company, which has fully complied with its obligations in respect of guarantee letters and attestations already paid at the University of Crete. I'm not going to comment on the personal report on tourist businesses. It is mud that has started from the undergrounds of Rosa Nera, and unfortunately I am sad to see it reproduced in this Chamber. My family, like most families in tourist areas like Chania, has a small hotel. If you think that's what makes me a hotel, I'm so sorry for you. In my prototype I referred to the ideas, the deliberate distortion of reality, the tolerance and support that they provided, which you have provided over the years to illegal occupations, of those who are today being cut to preserve the public character of buildings and who want to deprive a university of the right to exploit its property for the benefit of its students. But today, I want to talk about truths. The truth is that all the procedures for the exploitation of the buildings of the Polytechnic of Crete on the hill of Kastelli were made by decisions of the collective bodies and of the institution, with full transparency, information for local society through publications in the local press and information by letter to the City Council of Chania, before the award of the tender and before the contract was signed. Mr Arseni, you ask what the contract is for. You can study it thoroughly. I present it to the House today so that you can have a full picture. [[At this point, the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I note the most important elements. The contract provides for renting and not selling the three buildings for twenty-five years against a total price of EUR 8.9 million, EUR 356,000 per year, corresponding to 30% of the institution's budget. The company, according to its investment plan, undertakes to spend EUR 18 million on the complete restoration of the three historic buildings. The work includes the restoration of the building of the Division, which, as I said, has been facing serious problems for years. On the basis of the contract, the Contracting Company is required to inform the Technical Service of the University of Crete of the final study of work to be carried out in the buildings, approved by all relevant departments and archaeology. That's the pool stuff. The Technical Service of the University of Crete will monitor the implementation of the work. There is also free access to the Kastelli hill for all citizens, on the basis that has been included in the contract, and all the Chania know that the area at that time of the occupation was closed with padlocks. The University decided to make use of its property through transparent procedures, decisions of its collective bodies and absolute respect for the history of the buildings, with significant economic and development benefits, both for the University of Crete and for the city of Chania. For the rescue and parallel development of the buildings, it has chosen the route of recovery with private individuals, through the rental with an obligation to restore them. This method, if you don't know it, is fully internationally acceptable and aims to save buildings and to promote the cultural heritage of private resources. We didn't find out about America. Significant historical buildings internationally, even whole medieval cities, have been rescued, fully restored and emerged in an excellent way, through initiatives to exploit them, often predicting a change of use. The archaeological law does not prohibit the selection of small hotel units as a use to highlight monuments, such as this one, and this is also a recommended option according to international literature. The CSM itself has repeatedly made use of maintainers in accordance with the law in order to achieve their enhancement and restoration. Mr Arseni, your question demonstrates the completely different concept of our universities. You want universities completely controlled by the state, and that is why you do not respect the self-employed and the university's right to exploit his property so that with the additional resources he can provide better services to his students. We want modern public universities, self-government, extrovert, competitive, development poles for the economy and local communities, as is the case in the best universities in Europe and North America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. The fourth question under number 1086/28-9-2020 will now be discussed in the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "The problems of the student roof". Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problems that students face at universities are too much and are increasing with the situation in them. One of the biggest problems faced by students is, of course, the question of their stay, the question of student accommodation for those children, for students studying away from home. This is an issue which, every year more and more, is getting worse every year, since your own government, like previous, time-consuming and constant cuts in funding - and you are reducing it - for student care and for student housing. This year, however, and in pandemic conditions, this issue has been widened, has been exacerbated for the vast majority of students. First of all, Minister, the great mass of students who rent houses in the country where they are studying does not know whether their studies will be carried out today and whether they will be carried out, how this will be done. There is great uncertainty, great insecurity, an absolute darkness around this issue. Because, then, there is this uncertainty, many choose to leave the rented houses, since they do not know whether they will be or will not be the lessons by living if lessons are lost, if six months will be lost. You can understand that all this creates a completely uncertain situation that does not allow any programming in any people's homes. As far as the first-year students are concerned, there things are getting worse, as they don't even know when and whether they'll start their courses, nor, of course, whether they'll be entitled to a room in these homes, at whatever homes, they've left. Meanwhile, as you know very well, applications every year in the home are growing - and this says something about the needs of students who are studying away from home - and the applications that are being met each year are becoming less and less. Technically and wholesalely, I should like to tell you that only one of the ten students applying for a room in the homes manages to get the boxed key. After what I mentioned above, we ask you: What are you going to do to increase state funding, finally, to maintain and upgrade, first, the old homes, the ones that exist and have their mess, which are even dangerous for student accommodation? Other hotels, other spaces for students to stay, spaces, of course, which will meet the conditions of residence of people, students. Spaces, Mr Minister, of course, need to be exploited with the equivalent state support - and they must be shaped as focal points. For example, here at the University there is the old, historic “Majestic” hotel, which is a legacy of the Athens NRP. At some point the government will have to see to it - a government, anyway! - so that this can be converted into a dorm. It's excellent and it's next to the university. We must, of course, hire staff to the outbreaks - staff have been shortened to the last level - for preservation, preservation, cleanliness. And finally - and this is one of the most critical - you should give, Minister, your Government, a monthly student allowance to all students renting home away from home. Now they have it as much as they ever need this student - housing allowance. So you must give it directly to all students - we repeat - who rent home away from home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u72	The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, Mr Delis, thank you for your question. You mentioned the fact that students do not know whether they are going to be doing and on what terms their studies are going to take place this year, but I think you should be aware that since the early summer, we have spoken with the masters, we have told them that it is our intention to go to a mixed system - which I will explain a little more later - and the relevant joint ministerial decision has been adopted since 4 September, which makes it very clear how the lessons will be made for the winter half of the academic year 2020-2021. They will be done in a hybrid way to ensure the highest quality of health, the maximum safety for students, but at the same time to return to their natural space and not to lose contact with the university. That is why they have more than fifty registered students online, from a distance, while smaller courses - and the "less" refers to courses that have fewer students - as well as clinical and laboratory exercises will be carried out by living. That is quite clear. We are in constant cooperation with the Republican authorities of universities. The day before yesterday there was a teleconferencing conference with all the prefectures. Yesterday I visited universities to start the semester safely. That's about the semester. On the main theme of your question now where the students are, as you know, the existing framework, the function falls within the competence of universities, while the financial management and coverage of some of the homes belonged to INEDIBIM, the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. It is a fact - and this is something we work on and I will talk to you later - that, and because our students are too many compared to the population, but also because we have a great geographical spread, the outbreaks that we have are clearly inadequate. That's not enough. We had said - and I had already answered your question before - that what has to be done is to quickly build new outbreaks. So what do we do about it? PPPs, public-private partnerships are a particularly useful tool. It is no coincidence that after the University of Crete, which proceeds for three thousand student rooms, and the University of Thessaly and the Democritus University have already completed the construction of a student restaurant which has already been approved by the Interministerial Committee. The PPPs, you know, do not accept the known amendments to the contracts for overruns of initial costs. The payment starts after the project was delivered, and most importantly, it is ensured that the infrastructure is maintained, that the outbreaks - as you have said, and rightly so - are a major problem especially for the previous outbreaks. However, we also take other actions for the benefit of students. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan for Higher Education, we are working on proposals for both energy upgrading of university buildings, but mainly for the building and renovation of students in many universities, especially in regional, with a very large number of beds. For the year 2020, the Ministry of Education has entered EUR 28 million for the operational expenditure of the student restaurants, for this year, while the registered appropriation for family support for children studying away from home amounts to EUR 40 million. You put a number of specific questions to your question which I will answer in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u75	Minister, the first issue, which is topical, is the opening-up of universities. First of all, there is a contradiction. You know, your government opens up schools - well it does and opens up, schools must operate - but in terms that do not provide any security for their operation, and at the same time it shows great rigour at the opening of universities. There is a contradiction here about education. At some point you'll have to answer about it. In any case, however, the opening up of universities is a government responsibility, Minister. It is your responsibility to ensure that all those conditions and conditions are complied with in these circumstances. And, of course, the Ministry of Education is saying that it allows the opening of a school for departments of up to fifty people, which means that most of the departments will be led to teleteaching, with the well-known problems it has, with the well-known shortages of thousands of people who do not have, Mr Minister, all the necessary things that modern technology requires. In any case, they have infrastructure themselves and they can take care of them. They also have rooms which have very nice and very modern conference centers, which of course make use of for other purposes, commercial, which can now be made available and exploited to be learned by living university lessons. I now come to the question of student accommodation. Your answer is the same as you gave last year, that your Government ensures that students are built up and operated through public-private partnerships. First of all, I think we should agree that your government's policy, like the policy of all the previous governments, leads with mathematical accuracy to the dissolution of the existing school house, the outbreaks. You don't have to go in there. You see them outside, and you understand what this is all about. But we'd like to see what those are, anyway, the PPPs. It's an old plan, SYRIZA started it and appeared as a plan. Let's see the experience of schools, because several schools have been built in our country by the PPP method in recent years. First, when a PPP building, a school or a student home is built by the contractor, he owns it, he uses it. Those who operate inside cannot literally put a nail on the wall, they cannot make any intervention without the contractor's permission taken over by the PPP. If there are any damages, malfunctions, there the contractors usually leave through the slope and in short the problems remain. This model has proved completely unsuccessful and, in addition, extremely expensive, because it costs more according to workers' testimony to building infrastructure. In any case, PPP of course for students means rent. That's the point. It means a field for merchandise action inside the university. The feeding, storage, etc. has taken precedence, of course. And now we're going to housing. It means, in short, education even more as a commodity. I now come to the problems of students, which we have told you about the rental accommodation allowance, which you have not answered, and you will have to answer. You know you said you'd cut 40% of the rent for the student residence. However, this applies only to children of workers who have been suspended by contract. In the meantime they should also support the home of their child who is studying and their own with 800 euros. You can now see what this measure actually means. What we are saying is that the state should now take on the rent of all the children, all the students renting. And anyway, there's money you're giving it. I will give you the example of the 8m euros of the ESRB, which you gave to the special research accounts for increasing student tourism. These sums could also be used to convert spaces to universities, that is to say, to take courses, but also to strengthen students. The problems are too many, we do not need to list them. And in Thessaloniki there is the example of "Majestic", which I said here is at the University. It's just the building behind the Pedagogical School, the building of paraplegics. It is a vegetarian for anyone who passes through St. Demetrius, who can also with an intervention directly, speedy turn into a student home. You'll tell me there's worse, the Panteion University or the University of Piraeus doesn't even have any student homes. So here is the need, Minister, for there to be a public body, says the JRC, which will deal with this issue from the outset, to ensure the question of student accommodation for all students who are studying away from home and not for their parents to run to cover expenses, and often this cannot be the reason for their studies, Minister. We are waiting for your answers as well as for what we have said about students' homes, but also about the rental allowance for students who rent away from home.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Apart from the issues raised by Mr Delis in his question, he has opened up too many issues, so I will obviously not be able to answer everything in my limited time. There's gonna be a choice. First of all, as far as the opening up of educational structures is concerned, you said that there is a contradiction between universities and the other levels of education. There is no contradiction. All instructions and ways of opening up educational structures shall be made on the advice of the relevant Committee of EGE Epidemiologists. Obviously it is not the same amphitheater in which there are two hundred students, which in no case can be opened in a natural presence, with a school class of twenty - twenty - five. I think we all understand that. You spoke of the shortages of teleteaching. I remind you that the spring semester at the universities went very well. And the teaching and the exams were completed. No student lost their six-month term. Laboratory clinical exercises were carried out in June. We are not in any way leading to distance education. We said that courses with fewer than fifty registered students will take place in a natural presence. We place particular emphasis on returning undergraduate students to universities, especially in the first few years, because they have to understand what universities mean. Because your question has been tabled in the Minutes, I must also address specific issues that you have raised with your question. But before I go to these, you said that PPP means rent. No way! The PPP may be made by means of public availability payments and students do not pay rent, as is the case with the homes I mentioned earlier. With regard to the rental allowance, there are actions by the Ministry of Education for student support. Especially for postgraduate students we give 2,000 scholarships this semester due to COVID, to help with payroll in life course teaching, but also in cases where there are problems and the case of student support is considered, such as problems in some of the cases you have in your question. I don't have time to comment in detail on everything. Let me tell you that for the ERCF, and in particular for the Athens student centre, the problems with the hot water you ask for have already been settled, as INEDIBIM informed us. In the case of the study centre in Psachna, which belongs to the NRP, the establishments have, in fact, been built, in accordance with the plans and legal requirements in force in 1980 and so far no intervention has been made. In this regard, the EDPS, as successor to the former TEI, has identified the problem and has included it in an already posted declaration on the overall repair of the restaurant complex. As far as Aristotle is concerned, the relevant refresher tells us that in 2018 all the applications of the first-year students were covered and every thirty to thirty-six people on a floor there are six bathrooms. So what you have pointed out in your question is not true. In fact, according to INEDIABIM, a study will soon be planned to renovate, renovate and modernise the outbreaks in its property. Finally, in the case of the outbreaks in the IMF, the fact is that the former Thessaloniki TEI had a great deal of trouble with heating. The study is now under way, and at the next meeting of the management, on the 6th of the month, it is essential to address the heating problems at the dorm. Finally, with regard to - and I will close with this - the safe return of students to universities, the Ministry of Education has ensured and already gave universities, through the NSRP, the supply of sanitary material and disinfection services - an NSRP action - and we are starting a second action to strengthen universities even further in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. The fifth will then be discussed under number 1076/25-9-2020 in a timely question from the second-round MP Ioannis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct staff support from the University of Ioannina". Mrs. Jufi, you've got two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have announced significant changes to the map of universities and a minimum basis for introduction to higher education institutions. The first proposal, however, of the Committee of the Regions to your Ministry is a significant increase in the recruitment of staff of all categories and specialties with emphasis on the proclamation of permanent posts and the possibility of re-entry of persons via ASP. In the distribution, which you have decided on for the year 2020-2021, you have given the universities only two hundred five places. And of these, you gave the University of Ioannina sixteen permanent members' posts, which only covers 50% of the needs arising from pensions in 2019. Your university had requested thirty-eight members' posts in order to meet the needs of staff in the old and new departments. You have announced nothing to cover the posts of the 2020 pensions or the vacant posts due to death or resignation. For example, in the Medical School, there are 20 vacant posts and eight others are expected to be vacant in 2021 and only five have come. Of course, there are other universities, such as the University of Macedonia or the School of Fine Arts, where you did not give any place. However, we have asked you a separate parliamentary question. I'm coming back to the University of Ioannina. The SYRIZA government had secured and financed sixty-sixty-six members in the previous period. Of course, he had given fifteen more places to the School of Medicine from the Ministry of Health by converting positions of the Ministry of Health, when it was not possible for the Ministry to give them because of the "memorandum corset". Thus, the Medical School of Ioannina, as well as the Medical Schools as a whole, received seventy - eight places. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. In this way, they managed to respond and to play a leading role in the battle against the coronary, both in clinical objects - because these positions are particularly competitive and repatriate a very high level of scientific capacity - as well as in laboratory objects through the immediate organisation of monitoring laboratories for COVID -19. SYRIZA had specifically legislated, separately for tertiary education, rule one on departures - recruitments. And you know that. There was no need for any further approval by the Ministry of Interior of all public sector recruitment, which was why you raised the serious delay in the activation of this possibility. It is unjustified that the practice of the Ministry's political leadership is being hampered by the developments of the LAG members with a delay of five to eleven months - you have been sent for signature to be declared - while in the past, the waiting time was two months, three months. The same can be seen with larger variations for vacant membership positions as a result of moving to another university. On the contrary, you choose to meet the needs of universities with transition positions, positions F12 407 and with the Academic Experience Programme which are of course useful, they attract necessary staff, but they cannot replace permanent staff, at least, in their quality elements and the substantial investment that these people make in the further development and development of the public university. Finally, there are major deficiencies in administrative staff, loopholes which make it even more difficult for the Foundation to operate at the beginning of the new academic year and indeed, in the midst of a pandemic. Since the proclamation of the hundreds of permanent posts you have given the universities - we have, in fact, had a statement from the Minister of Education that this is the first time that this has been done - you have only given three positions and four SSPs at the University of Ioannina, while the needs exceed twenty-five people. Of course the Minister didn't tell the truth. As then, we had the opportunity to say that in 2016, approximately two hundred had gone to universities with earlier notices of the ASP, but also in other ways, while the University of Ioannina had taken fourteen. Finally, the possibility for universities to deal with this through mobility has not yet been opened, and should have started from March and April. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I conclude with two questions. What are the immediate steps you intend to take to support senior education institutions, and more specifically the University of Ioannina? And tell us, if you intend to observe and quickly implement - and not in instalments - the rule one on the departures and recruitment of members of the IGC, and indeed at least in the early six months' notice to ensure the proper functioning of the higher education institutions, which, in conditions of the bad economic, social and health crisis, have them as much as the Greek society has ever needed to educate its children and not just?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jufi. I remind you that at 12 noon we have the question of the Change Movement, so please keep up the time. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Jufi, with a recent decision of the Ministry of Education, we proceeded with the distribution of two hundred members' posts at the universities of the country and an additional five posts at the highest church academies. We speak clearly and frankly in the academic community, without micro-policy, and I will then come back to this matter. In particular, from the summer, at the end of July, at the regulators' meeting, we said that the two-two positions would be allocated in proportion to the corresponding posts of retired teachers of each university in the academic year 2018-2019. In all the universities three hundred and seventy-three were vacated because of retirement, twenty because of death and another seventy-nine for other reasons. We had already made a commitment since spring that four hundred TENs will be given in two phases. The first phase has already been implemented and is currently being approved and allocated to universities and the next two-two positions. This will cover the pensions of 2019. In particular, for the University of Ioannina you said it was about 50%. Sixteen posts have been allocated and sixteen others will now be given with this allocation. Fifteen posts were adopted for teachers under the Programme of Acquisition of Teaching Experience, which you brought, and indeed is a good institution, which we continue, a hundred and nine posts have been issued. On our own initiative, due to the particular circumstances of the COVID pandemic, we have provided funds from the NSRP for the award of grants to two thousand postgraduate and candidate doctors. These will be grants in return for additional teaching work. At the University of Ioannina, a hundred and nine such scholarships will be given. We did so to support the educational process through educational courses and to meet the needs of laboratory and clinical exercises. But here, I want to go back to what I said before, that what we do is transparent and objective. In addition to the fact that in the framework of the programme agreements from 2021 the National Higher Education Authority will recommend to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs the allocation of staff, the same logic we have followed for temporary staff. The distribution of positions for the two eighty-two teachers in DC 407, but also for the two thousand scholarships, took place on the basis of objective criteria through a algorithm and not because we arbitrarily decided. We have informed the Bureau of the Session, and we have therefore informed all the Members of this House of the way in which it has been allocated and of the criteria on which it has been based. I mean, we had no reaction, because everyone appreciated our approach, everything in the light, transparent. Finally, the University of Ioannina was allocated to cover operating expenses with an amount of approximately EUR 4,900,000 and an additional EUR 207,000 to cover the payroll of extraordinary teaching staff. For one by one, I will speak in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs. Jufi, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry and I very much ask you to keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. It's just an opportunity to talk about university issues and I think it's very critical at this stage. Mr Minister, in your reply, you also recognise that these recruitments do not respond, are the consolation pill for both the University of Ioannina and most of the universities. I have here with me - and of course it is not SYRIZA and you know it - the decisions of two universities, of the National Technical University and of the University of Patras, who also emphatically point out that the Ministry has not met the very great needs they have, but the need to implement the Gavroglou Law to cover 100% of the retired members at least. Now, with regard to what were the criteria, the design and the decisions to selectively strengthen some higher education institutions and to devaluate the needs of the other higher education institutions, I expect to hear it in your dentistry, because it has not been made clear. And you see - because you said there are no protests - that there are official locations from many universities, but also from official conferences. Now, from there on, we consider that in very difficult circumstances, Minister, we had managed to give the universities a thousand positions. At the University of Ioannina we gave twenty-six, while another twenty-six seats were given in 2016 and after leaving the universities, with the intention of strengthening the university in its new form, we provided for another forty-nine posts. And obviously, these did not lead to a budget derailment, since you know that at the same time the 37 billion euro financial pillow was delivered to you. I consider that the New Democracy Government elsewhere chooses to make its expenditure and waste, millions of euros for masks - glass, media advertising, while you are keeping a small basket - you will allow me to say - for universities, but I would also say for university hospitals and for two bodies that support the whole of north-west Greece. We see that you are wealthy in the private sector. Of course, it is not about your Ministry, but we are listening to double-price rental in the allegedly demanding IF beds that we all need, and of course, to offer public university spaces for private enterprises at a reasonable price. However, I would like to raise two other issues - Mr Delis, too - which are crucial for the opening up of universities. You call on universities to move forward - and rightly so - by living, breaking the theoretical sections into groups of thirty people. Of course, living instruction is better than distance, but under what conditions? All of your universities are asking you to provide additional funds for the increased needs of teaching staff - and not just - and for cleaning staff in the pandemic period. You have no financial constraints, there are resources in the public funds and you can get additional resources from the European Union's Development Fund. Why don't you, Minister? You ask the public sector in a crisis situation to meet the needs, but you are underfinanced, you do not care for its proper staff. With "blocks", with transitional jobs. Unfortunately, we see this in both education and health. In education with the quarterly contracts for new substitutes and health by not dealing with the way in which supplementary staff supporting hospitals should be treated. In fact, instead of applause, you give them tips and blocks or target teachers and students who fight for the safer operation of schools. And I come now to another subject, because you have referred to it in distance teaching, which, of course, must be used as an emergency solution and not - we say - as a disciplinary measure - to students who fight for the safer open educational process. What, though, did you not see to it that you did? You haven't sent the first-year lists that went by the end of September. I know from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki that so we cannot provide the founding e-mail accounts for first-year students - that, of course, was not a problem in the previous years - which the first-years - to which you referred - cannot be connected on the distance-training platforms. So we see a delay in organising a very critical issue at the beginning of the first half of you. We will insist not only on us, but I would say that all of them are asking you - and you know it - to cover directly the posts vacant as a result of retirement at universities, but also to give new positions, because this is the only prospect that the Greek university can offer to Greek society, especially at this particular time, but also in the prospect of further development of everything that it can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Digalakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Jufi, as usual in your dentistry you are getting away from the question and you are making a general position. So I'll normally have to answer a general position myself. But I'll try to stay on the question. You spoke of health material, about the safe start of university operation. I also said in the previous question - you were present - that action has already been taken and a second action is taking to provide health material. For your teaching staff, I answered my prototype. We are giving two thousand posts - grants that are rewarding to assist in the teaching work. As far as registrations are concerned, this year, as we have already announced, registrations are done electronically and in such a way that students do not need - for the first time - to go to the school secretariats. I will, however, come to the main theme of your question, I will no longer escape, which concerns IGC positions and the notorious "one to one" and I will concentrate on it. You are referring to some point in your question - you have said it in your protology - to an unjustified delay in the political leadership of the Ministry of Education in the recruitment of pending ICP members. There's nothing like that. All posts, when the previous stages have been completed, shall be signed. In fact, because we are interested in speeding up procedures for the IPA members, we have done something for the first time this year. What did we do? We have asked the universities - and they have all responded - to provide information on the procedure for the election, development or permanentisation of LPIS members. Details of the outstanding notices for election, development and permanentisation were recorded in each institution, by section, cognitive object, notice FEC, closing date of submission of applications, date of establishment of a selective, etc., i.e. a full mapping, which had never been done. At the same time, we asked for the procedures pending at universities to be closed as far as possible, because there are too many positions pending at universities, as well as proposals on the whole procedure, to finally change the way in which ICP membership elections are held at universities and to be made much faster. And I now come to the crucial theme of 'one to one' for the withdrawals and recruitment of members of the IGC. As you well know, Article 65 - on this issue - of Law 4610 voted for it in 2019, a few months before the government changed. We voted in favour of this because we agree in principle. However, what you have legislated was impracticable to implement, as the content of the provision you have voted on was essentially inconsistent with the provisions of your own law, Law 4590/2019, on the annual and multiannual programming of recruitment in the public sector. In fact, as far as I have been informed, this issue has been marked by the services of the Ministry of Education at the time, tabled by Mr.4610 and voted in Parliament. In other words, you voted for a law that was inapplicable, just before you left, knowing that you would not be asked to apply it and that you gave it to the next. Nevertheless, we have found our positions, credits, all pensions and more members of the FPI of 2019 will be replaced. Four hundred posts, as I said, are given to the universities. Half have been given, the rest will be given in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u87	But it ends, Minister, in 2020 and we go to 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jufi. We move on to the debate of the third under number 1084/28-9-2020 on a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The conditions of housing, co-existence and cleanliness in West Athens do not allow minimum protection from the Koroni". Mr. Arseni, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, in West Athens and in many areas such as Petroupoli, such as Cameroon, Agios Anargyroi, we have, because of reconstruction, many new families and an explosion of school and youth that reminds of other parts of the world. We may have 30% of the population under the age of 30, youth population. In these areas, and more generally in West Athens and especially in Aegaleo, because of the earthquake, we have a huge housing problem that is growing and multiplying because of the coronary. With my question, I ask you to tell me how many children are students in classes that are deformations, classes inappropriate, rooms without windows, classes in burners, ISOBOX and building courtyards. How many students are in West Athens or even per municipality? How many students are per square in breaks and what does cleanliness mean? We'd like the evidence from you. Of course, I know the picture because I've visited a lot of these schools. It's important that you hear what children ask for. Fifteen students per class are what currently protects public health. It protects these children from becoming bodies that will pass the coronary to their grandparents, people who are at high-risk age. Right now, we don't have cleaning in schools. There are cleaners who are in two schools. There are kindergartens which are cleaned once a week. These are situations that are unbelievable for the time being. Obviously, too, the permanent teachers are away. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with little tolerance. But, Madam Secretary, you, instead of listening to this, are seeing an article in the recent Ministerial Decision you signed with the Minister, Article 2(2), where students who, through their actions, make it impossible or particularly difficult to conduct the training process will not be allowed to participate in modern distance learning and will be given absence for as many teaching hours as the timetable for the day. Madam Secretary, this reminds me of the way Mr. Erdogan manages the students who protested at Gezi Park, who kicked them out of schools, out of the avenues, from schools. What you are saying is that access to education is not for all children, but for what we agree with. Access to education is based on ideas. And that's why I'm wondering, which countries do you have as a model and how far back as a government are you willing to take us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Sophia Zacharakis, will answer. Mrs Zacharakis, I understand that you have been provoked, but you are capable of responding within three minutes because time is too pressing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, would you like me to start with me and say a few words? Would it help the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u92	No, that's your thing. I wouldn't want it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u93	Okay. Mr Arseni, last Monday, just five days ago, you asked a similar question about a region of western Athens, in Petroupoli in particular, about the 2nd High School, for which I think I responded specifically from this Step. I also stressed that you had tried to invest in the reasonable concern that exists on the issue of the coronary with unfounded objections and to sow panic at a time when all of us, particularly those who have a public responsibility - elected member of the Greek Parliament you are and we are here to account for our actions - we have a duty of responsible behaviour specifically on a major subject, on a major public health issue. In that question I answered with specific documents, facts and facts, which have shown that the health and education authorities have done their duty. I mentioned one in one of the facts, which you did not oppose. I'll do the same today. In your question you are presenting a dystopic, I would say, image of your constituency, western Athens, for the places of education, the number of children per class, linking directly to the reason that the state cannot protect the health of students. Something like that, anyway, you mentioned. The image does not correspond to reality. I leave the evidence to be assessed and, of course, to be evaluated by the people who are following us. On the basis of this, then, the document of the Directorate of Primary Education III of Athens, to answer directly the question you want before, average numbers of pupils per department are about 20. In each section it corresponds to 6,5 square metres during breaks. And this in a - quite rightly you mention - densely populated urban area which is even increasing the number of children. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] One would say that it would be a pleasant reflection for the vice mayors, because having new families in the region is a source of life and oxygen, but on the other hand it is creating a great obligation for these children to be housed in school buildings, but you agree that they cannot be built at one time in the next, but efforts are being made which I will mention next. Report the number of ISOBOX, the procats. First grade is six. In secondary education there is the case of 2nd GEL Petroupoli, which was affected by an earthquake and is temporarily housed in prefabricated structures. I say here that the placement of these houses or rooms is obviously not the ideal solution, but come a little while ago what happened last year in this area, which was indeed affected and raised the issues of the school roof, because school roofs were indeed affected beyond the 2nd GEN. In time, then, - and I leave it here for evaluation - they were sent and placed with very good coordination of the Municipality of Petropolis, the Ministry of Education and the building infrastructure, these houses. During which children had to wait for these rooms - I would remind you that they went to the beginning of December - we had made special arrangements for the programme so that the children could go to school early in the morning and all returned to the morning shift when the rooms did well. We have said that this is not the ideal solution, but the state has acted quickly, because it must be the primary concern of children, of not losing school hours, and I think that answers what you said about recruitment. If you want me to place myself on the issue of recruitment, I tell you that this is not the procedure, neither the solution nor the answer to the issues. The coordinated actions, the dialogue on the issues raised by children is the solution, but to close the door to school and at the same time to remove from everyone else the silent majority, the right to learn, it is certainly not the answer, and it is certainly not a democratic answer. Because you want specific answers for the rest too, to respect a little time, to have the honourable Member second-guess and then to continue with my second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank the State Secretary for her reply. Madam Secretary, you can't look at this situation, because it's just something children experience. You mentioned the number of children in all western Athens that it's twenty per class. You have not, however, referred to what is happening per municipality, because there are municipalities where there is indeed a reduction in the school population. You will not, however, disagree that in Petroupoli the average is twenty-seven. Tell us about the rest of the areas one by one. In any case, I don't think you can argue that students' request is fair. It is right scientifically what students are asking for, the fifteen people per class, and it is what would protect them at the rate that is possible. Students also ask that the rooms be cleaned, because kindergartens should be kept clean and not once a week, and they also say that a cleaner cannot cope with two schools. They don't say anything that's absurd. They're barely saying self-evident and urgent. This is the case with the recruitment of permanent teachers. But I want to focus again on something, because behind a beauty, there is a policy at the moment, Minister, which is fascist. Are you saying that the student who for any reason judges the teacher, the address that prevents learning will be excluded from distance education and will be absent? Do you obviously use this as a measure to stop the occupations? I'm sorry, but this is where you're chasing the kids for their minds? Do you block them out? You're saying whoever disagrees and asks for right co-mortem conditions to deal with the coronary, we're gonna cut him out of the university with absences, leave him in the same class? That's unheard of. I don't even know how you thought about it. Tell us which country is your model and really how much back in the history of this country we live in you are willing to take us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis, even though you went to the occupations. It's a topical issue, but it's not in the timely question. Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u97	Mr Arseni, when we meet again in the same Chamber and because I want to remain in the essence of your timely question, it is of great value to talk about cleaning and answering which other country has also taken possessions in schools. Let's talk about it, let's do this conversation in detail. I'm willing to do it with evidence. So let's go to the issue of cleaning staff, which you have raised. They are questions and answers that must be made anyway. I don't know if I was wrong before. Let me fix something. Six and a half squares per student are in break, Mr Arseni. I don't know if it sounded clear. I'm saying this so we don't give the wrong impression. As regards cleaning staff, which you know very well that here comes the Ministry of Interior and the municipalities to deal with, there is special care to cover beyond current needs. See also Law 4713/2020, Art. 34. Since the start of the teaching year 2020-2021, where the needs of the municipalities are not met by their own staff, they may be covered by fixed-term private law contracts of a duration equal to the teaching year. Therefore, they help for a few months to cover up and I know in contact with the municipalities in the constituency where you are elected to become the fewer contracts or can be made. Yesterday I saw Mayor Aigleo. We have had a very detailed discussion, in addition to the issues of the school roof, which is already taking on reconstruction systems. You are right that there are indeed issues, especially in two schools and in high school and in the specialist. In cooperation with the CISI, I see that we are making progress in reconstruction and there is the intention of creating a new school unit because of the increased needs that you are right to say there are. So I see that the municipalities are really willing to meet the fixed-term needs that exist and, of course, because I visited - and you know it well - the primary school of Athens was not mentioned anywhere that there was a kindergarten that was cleaned up once a week. But I will check what you say and come back to it. I'll talk to the principal. To continue with the issue of cleaning staff, the possibility was amended by a joint ministerial decision and a provision was made for the brave molecularisation of the cleaning staff involved in previous years under work contracts at school units, and now as fixed-term staff they enjoy full working and insurance rights, something very important. Nine thousand four hundred seventy-four staff were recruited, five thousand of them full-time. Specifically in western Athens, according to HPS data, thirty - thirty people were hired to cleanup staff. The funds allocated to the municipalities, 11,620,000 euros, of which the municipalities of Agios Anargyra, Kamaterou and Petroupoli referred to in your question, went about 60,000 euros to each for supplies of material, for the provision of means of protection for workers, as well as services related to the treatment of pandemic. You know very well the amount guaranteed on the subject of masks, with the failure that existed, but with the correction that will also exist. This is something that we expect to correct anyway. Indeed, there was an admission to this and speed now to solve it, so that the masks could be returned to the children where there was a mistake in the lot. In order to go to education, we have repeatedly stressed that it was extremely important that, for the first time after ten years, four and a half thousand special education teachers were recruited. Especially with the second phase of appointments of one hundred and seventeen of them is in western Athens and we continue with appointments to be made next year. Approximately 2021, when the final tables come out, and I think the ADP will be, because that is the responsibility of drawing up the final tables, we will have all five thousand fifty teachers in general. We hired thirty-two thousand alternates, we know well, September, earlier than ever, more than ever, but also at the beginning of next week, a new wave of alternates to meet the needs. We are therefore responding to the demands of the children - because we have had a debate on the demands - by means of concrete actions. The House voted a few days ago. We put in provisions for 133 million euros. They are added to the EUR 200 million voted in the House 15 days ago. This whole amount comes to cover both primary and full-day needs, but also the needs of secondary needs. So, Mr Arsenis, not with complaints which may be general, often unfair, I would say, it turns out that the dystopic picture you present does not correspond to the reality. However, we have a duty - because I do not want to devour any picture - those children who are in an inappropriate place at the moment or the children who are in these classes - canteen, give them a choice, the choice of good and competitive public school, who opens doors and does not close them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. The first question under number 6896/28-5-2020 will be discussed now by MP B3 South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Completion of procedures for the concession of the Eleftherios Venizelos (Airma) Park in Agios Dimitrios attikis in the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios". Mr Balafa, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. We submit, Minister, today the specific timely question concerning the very long delay in the completion of the concession of the Eleftherios Venizelos park, the well-known "Airma" park in the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios. This is an area, a park, a very important green, recreational, culture for all the inhabitants of the wider region. Our request is clear. We want a concrete answer to inform the citizens concerned and the municipality concerned who are asking and worrying. I think they are reasonably wondering and worrying. Since July 2016, when the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in Agios Dimitrios, announced the ratification of the concession of this park to the municipality, the procedure began in March 2019, following the approval of the municipality and the relevant council of Attica, all documents were transferred to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to issue the necessary presidential decree to complete the procedure and proceed with the tender. But since then, since March 2019, there has been inertial, essentially. So we led to the submission of a question in May 2020 to parliamentary scrutiny. After our question the Ministry is awakened - let me speak - and after a month, finally, it sends from one direction to the other, to the legislative directorate, the documents to issue the Presidential Decree. Three more months have passed without answering our question. Today we are asking this timely question. I think you agree, too, that it is worthy of such delay and frugality. Is something else wrong? When will it be signed? That is our specific question. A concrete response is needed. One and a half years on this issue is too much, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Balafa. You're the only one who came straight into the question. You didn't do it around. You didn't get to the question when the time was up. Good for you. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Dimitrios Economou. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for agreeing to move the question over time, because I had something unavoidable last time. Thank you again. By going to the essence of the question, I would like to say that you are right. The delay is excessive and unacceptable and jeopardises the creation of the area of greenery and culture necessary to be created in this region. For the previous delays you are absolutely right, but I cannot say any more. When the draft Presidential Decree arrived at my office, I found that there were errors in the rhetorical design. For example, the abolished orbital lines were not marked with a black stranded line as required, some other lines were not red as they should. There are some other flaws that would jeopardise the legality of the creation of the shared area. I returned it to the address. I personally promise that by 15 October this will be returned to us to make a final check. Immediately afterwards, he will leave for the final check on the Council of State. I fully understand and agree that we have been delayed. I personally commit that everything that can be done by me will be done to move this particular public space forward quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. That's what I want. I think you've been covered, Mr Balafa, but you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u103	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his honesty. Honourableness in placement, usually in these processes, is inadequacy. You also agree that ponding this issue over a year and a half is too much. I also believe that you have referred to mistakes. We're people, we're mistakes. But I've got two things and I'm done. The first is the date of October 15th. You're telling me that on 15 October, that is, in thirteen days, he's going to the competent legislative department. But I would say - because it is not independent, it is the management of legislative work, but you have the responsibility as Ministry - if not the 25th of October, on the day of 28 October or about then, to finish this issue, because there is a meeting tomorrow with the mayor. I can assure you that it is not just that they are wondering about the delay. They are concerned - and I am telling you quite frankly - that there is something else, because they cannot give another interpretation. Thank you very much and we expect it to be completed and what you have said today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Balafa. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u105	I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President. It will be what you have asked, Mr Balafa. I would like to say that your question has helped speed up this process if we can use this term in this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. At this point we will be interrupted for a few minutes. I want to thank you through my heart. Have a good weekend, the Virgin Mary with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u107	The sitting shall be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The 16/9/26-2-2020 topical and urgent question by Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be discussed. Vasiliou Kegeroglou, Evangelia Liikodi, Georgiou Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmed, Constantina(Nandia) Giannapoulou, Christos Giokas, George Kamin, Charalambou Kastanides, Michael Katrin, Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Charulas(Charas) Kefidou, Andreas Loverdus, Burhan Baran, George Mulkiotis, George Mulkiotis, Dimitrios Biagi, Apostolos Pana, Andreas Pula, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Georgios Frangidis, on the subject: ‘The party purposes that serve the judgments of the Heads of Organic Units of the ‘First Republic’. The reason is the first questioning Member of the Larissa Movement of Change Mr. Evangelia Likoules for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come in eloquently - let us say honestly - in the 15th month of the country's government from New Democracy. These are fifteen months when you say they were not easy and we say they were not easy. There is a juncture which, of course, I hear lately calling it "unlucky misfortune" which hit both the country and the planet. It was rightly expected that they would bring difficulties to our country too. But we are a country which, regardless of any circumstances, is facing problems of administration, organisation and, above all, is facing problems of political will to carry out brave reforms in relation to precisely these problems. So the government of unfortunate Mr. Mitsotakis has not helped make things easier. That is the conclusion, and that is the title of today's debate. Most of the solutions of the conservative party have been renamed before us, old, well-known practices, with known perceptions, known dogmatism and all the known consequences for the country and, of course, they have been renamed with new, intricate and nice communication enclosures - there, Minister, you must put your hand in - for example, the state in which it is made with all the staff, the chiefs, the officials. Great! We have therefore seen in these fifteen months the expansion of the public sector with post-mortem and temporary civil servants, but without any organisational plan on the other hand. What did we see in your final state? We saw the subjugation of ASAP to the tracking of the party machine of New Democracy and your limey finally thirst for new constantly ruptured ruptures. We have seen infinitely, by way of derogation from the existing legislation, provisions for what can be imagined in human mind. We have seen a bad one - not just bad ones, but bad ones - a legislation which constantly demolishes legislative power and makes it a pretext for the indivisible appetites of the executive. We have seen little assurances of democracy in the public sector resulting in dissolution in public administration. Remember the hospitals recently and the ruin? We have seen the creation of new state structures, whether private or public, which are often accountable only to ministers and not to the administrative hierarchy of the Ministry in a peculiar and postmodern, I would say, reconstituting feudalism, Greek inspiration. But after five hundred years, you're doing this. We have seen cowardices, no visionary, but above all no innocent initiatives for self-government, a policy that at least we 'clean' self-government believes and believes that all the necessary means, inspiration and vision should be given to progress with resources together with a creative plan. On the contrary, you don't release her. As far as you go, you'll disintegrate her into her collective organs and throw her a scumbag at once and for her to have her with you as the long hand of the government that self-government always wants to carry out the decisions. Below I'll say two words about it. We have also seen digital reforms announced, which at least went under the bar of everything that citizens and businesses have been using for five years now, and you have not seen this when you brought your first bills on digital reform. We also saw them being terrified by the heads of government by a total return to the 1950s, when the chief of staff slammed the glass with meaning and said: 'I see you'. These complaints, Mr. Minister, aren't they yours, they're not of interest to you, they're not touching you? But we can also be diligent because it has not been invented now, ladies and gentlemen, the mistake has been a serious precedent. More in a total return to 2009, I see this thing, we are approaching it, when Kostas Karamanlis' government was inhabiting the other ones. The current government has been treating itself as if nothing has been intervened since then. A crisis that has little missed getting Greece out of the club of European countries and is not sweating anyone's ear, a crisis that poorens a large part of citizens and citizens, a crisis that has made the foundations of the democratic conquests of the civil society rubbing, a crisis almost fatally fatal for our own political system with the appearance of the Golden Dawn and other antisystemic or pseudo-systemic forces, and we have carried this fight in the last elections on our back, the Change Movement and we have been the real institutional impediment to prevent this institution, unfortunately, from being open to all the antisystemics. We have been recognised by the world that we have made this fight precisely because we are the institutional guarantors of the country. However, let's catch one - one of the specific issues to the extent that the time of the debate allows, of course, to point out, first of all, that New Democracy, not a month government at that time, has brought the law for the ultimate state, an alleged reformist division within the public administration, which you have not only advertised, not only invest, not only you have moved our finger by saying: 'Look at you ignorant about what it means', but you have not left Greek and Greek who will not know about our final grand plan. You did not say to us that instead of the staff you meant an over-concentration state. Of course, this is not the first time that a counter-reformation has been denouncing by name in order to hide a great title behind it, but the real governmental intentions that were the absolute control of public administration. What have you done, Minister, so far, has your state of service with the hundreds of staff, chiefs, staff with the task? It created a dazzling monitoring scheme for the implementation of public policies by using a lax tool card from the management, resulting in the creation of an unrecognised government Presidency with four hundred staff, of which one hundred are posted. This is not a staff - I told you before - it's great! You have created a completely personalized pharaonic structure, extremely expensive in maintenance, which has no purpose but to support "MAXIMOS S.A.". What else did the state finally do? He managed to institutionalise in the same law text a wise platoon for recruiting associates of the Ministers, the Secretarys-General, the Secretary-General and the Special Secretarys-General - to the engrave of the few actually anti-rivers and liberal supporters of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - and in the same article to add the key phrase to the letters of her traditional evident customers that the number of posts of the associates can increase according to the needs of the Minister. They have been established and undeclaredly - all this has been done within the same article, a truly top legislative achievement of a dual-language, double-tracked one. How perfect conception, really. If our people wanted to find a typical example of political affliction, tell me - really - if that would not be the ideal? And, of course, it is no accident that the only fifteen-month government of New Democracy already has several hundred more poster, almost a thousand, than the already very inflated numbers of posters of the four and a half years of SYRIZA. At the same time, meritfulness continued to pass in the finest letters. The Government of Your Excellency competes in the following: The party Secretary-General of the Ministries, supposed to be replaced by administrative secretaries in accordance with IASC procedures, remains in place and their position allowance of EUR 1,400 is maintained, at the same time as the Chief of HNDGS is granted a 550-euro allowance, please. A comparison to get us killed. However, the retired at the Ministry of Degree ranks at the 13th paytrack, taking 1,578 euros at the same time as the policeman, who is struggling to control crime and lawlessness, is rewarded with 930 euros. Here, then, is your double language of New Democracy doctrine imprinted on numbers! In order to be able, however, a highly conservative law such as that of the state of service to make it appear to be a reformist incision, it inevitably needs communication experts. That is why you have also done this with your staff, an undetermined number of posts for journalists in the ministries and the presidency of the government, and virtually many of those who make up the fourth pillar of democracy. With this, therefore, the country is classified among the last countries of the European Union, the fourth of the twenty-seven, in the index for freedom of the press. With the reformer's prime boulder, otherwise, Mrs Mitsotakis we are accused of being partially free. And, of course, it turns out that all of what you are doing and pre-electionally you have brought to the Greek people for the public administration, the careful system, unfortunately, all of this has come to pass in the past. But there is also a serious issue, Minister, concerning the ASP. New armies of contractors, hostages of good governance by Mr. Mitsotakis. According to the figures of June 2020, the total number of fixed-term contractors, with project contracts, with working hours in legal persons governed by public law, is of the order of 100 twenty-eighteen thousand, when our system raises sixty-five thousand employees. They're twice as many! So put on the coronary, put on your POPs, the extensions that you have made, many of the four-month, six-monthly, eight-monthly extraditions that have been made from March to August due to a coronary and all that you're bringing. The conclusion is that the current government is no different from the aspirations of the past's IAS. Of course, now Mr. Skourletis is making you jealous. I'm sure he's doing you, because he's happy inside or jealous. He recalls how the previous government tried to break the AACC through the infamous procedures of the 3K notice - we do not forget this - which attempted the recruitment of thousands of officials outside the procedures. At the same time, however, - and I am coming back to the current Governments - the derogating legalisation, particularly with regard to issues mainly of human resources management in the public sector, gives and takes. Derogations shall be provided for, by way of derogation, mobilisation and secondments and transfers, by way of derogation, by way of derogation from the remuneration and remuneration of members of committees and all of these by a clear customer mark. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this is a big party! I would like to point out that the 2020 budget already notes around EUR 6.6 billion primary deficit in the eight months. Primary deficit we had to see from what the government of Kostas Karamanlis inherited us back in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Since then, we have only had primary surpluses. With blood, labor, sacrifices by Greek taxpayers, but surpluses. Unfortunately, we have a component which has something to do with the following, that you are not correcting. See you from this Step, see you at the committees, see you everywhere. You're bringing the same again. I will say in my dentistry - and I have kept it, because my fellow Members will develop by areas the special issues that I have tried to put - what you are doing today and what you are bringing today in the next Senate Chamber, where we are discussing your new bill, which, unfortunately, is a scrupulous but carefully involved in all instruments and a little while ago, to go back to public administration provisions that do not honor democracy. The Change Movement will remain a stable depositary, an institutional guarantor of public administration. Because we believe that only with this public administration, the outdated public administration that can progress in the future, can the country go along with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u109	Now Mr Kamines, Member of the State of the Change Movement, has the floor. You have five minutes, Mr. Comrade. Please keep your time unless you want to get your seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of heads of government is a clear indication of how the government in question is perceived. The truth is that since 2007, the system of selection of heads has changed five times by Laws 3528, 3839, 4275, 4369 and 4674. What does that show us? It shows us that over a period of time the legislator still does not trust the public administration and has not become a permanent, a worthwhile system for the development of public officials and the selection of heads. The corresponding legislative material - whoever does a little trouble and tries to enlighten - is distinguished by a large number of heirous provisions with wide chambers of legislation by way of derogation. This has a very detrimental effect on public administration. It is undermining its effectiveness. Anyone who does the trouble of enthusiasm, of reading the 1911 Review Practices, when the legality of civil servants was established, will see that it was not just to protect the employee from unfair persecution, from party purposes. Sustainability was intended to maintain a continuity in the functioning of public administration, to have an institutional memory that would go from government to government, regardless of party changes. Unfortunately, as I have said lately, we are constantly disputing the state, the system of selecting heads of organic units, as has, in fact, recently been changed by Article 47 of Law 4674. Also, today that we in the committee are considering the Legislation on citizenship, on the choice of administrations to legal persons, we see that there is like ditches the ASA or the Council of State, but the majority of the people who make the choice are government officials. We still cannot get away from this culture. Let me refer in particular to the area of mine, which is the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and the Civil Protection. Immigration - refugee, ladies and gentlemen, and civil protection have been at the top of the agenda for the last six months. Unfortunately, however, even - because I have the opportunity to deal with this - they are also at the top of customerism and of derogating legislation. As far as the Ministry of Immigration is concerned, there was, first of all, a constant repetition and contradiction in government manipulations with the initial abolition and then the appointment of coordinators with the re-recommendation. We have measured at least thirteen by way of derogation provisions identified at the level of staffing, recruitment and public procurement. On the occasion of both the vote on bills and during the parliamentary control, I have repeatedly referred to the issue of the 'Minister of Refugees'. With this designation we are now talking about the Ministry of Immigration and indeed with a few cunning examples. Remind what? The twenty-eight governors of the temporary hospitality facilities in the mainland, the majority of which are not just members of the New Democracy, but local officials? The postmasters as Head of the Ministry's Technical Service? The recruitment of fixed-term contractors for three years by way of derogation from each provision? The possibility of covering Heads' posts and the position of the Ministry's Deputy Head of Service? The posters at the legal support and reception address, who were at first advisors and resigned so that they could then understand organic positions? Or is the secret funds to deal with the migratory crisis that we see for the first time being distributed, left the Ministries of National Defence and the Ministry of Civil Protection and go to Civil Protection rather than to immigration policy? There are too many other examples to which I shall not refer. Obviously all of what I have described is an island in its ocean by way of a derogation from a state, which you have set up for fourteen months in power. You have already made it possible, by means of the Staff Act, to carry out directorships of posted officials at the office of the Presidency of the Government. You have so far voted for over a hundred bills. With the exception of ratification of international conventions and agreements, we have at least thirty-eight adopted laws of the Greek state which include a large number of provisions and concern some forty-five organisations and services in the narrow and wider public sector. This shows that there is a strategic construction option, of course, not of an executive state, but of a party feud, a state "Leviathan" which exceptionally respects the procedures it introduces and creates constantly black holes within the public administration. I am speaking to you as spokesman for the Change Movement, in which PASOK established principles such as SAAP, established institutions such as "DENGY". And because you're talking about investment, we're gonna have to make it clear. No serious investment will thrive in this country unless we create a serious public administration. And serious public administration with customerism and rushphetti can't be done. In this curse we tried to put an end to S.H.I.E.L.D. Unfortunately, however, we have seen this work in a festive remake from the New Democracy of 2004-2009 and with a resounding title: 'Re-establishment of the state'. This is - we all remember - a theatrical performance that your party brought up as an operetta, and she directed it and of course held a leading role. Unfortunately, however, it was financed by the Greek people, trialed naive theatrical producer, with the well-known results of bankruptcy. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u111	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today in the House about public administration. It is clear, however, that the situation in the country is becoming more difficult every day. That is why I cannot help talking about the very important issues, before all our national issues, of Greek-Turkish relations. Unfortunately, Greece was lost from the summit. That's the truth, all the rest of it's nice. I really don't understand how Mr. Mitsotakis pleads happy. It is clear that these were not the results expected by the Greek people. It turned out that Mr Mitsotakis cannot defend Greece's positions and interests. He gave a lot of money and made promises, a blessing. Promises made all the time before, but we have all seen that they did not prevent Turkey from being aggressed towards our country. On the other hand, unfortunately, the European Union has taken steps back. It has retreated from the defence of international law, as well as solidarity with the Member States. He substantially tolerated Turkey's illegal actions in the Eastern Mediterranean which endangered both stability and peace in the region. Neither courage nor consistency have been shown. They have not dared to say even the word'standardisations', while respecting unacceptable balances. These are the results of Mr Mitsotakis' secret diplomacy and the cry of Mr Mitsotakis' agenda. Yesterday we learned from NATO about another secret agreement. The question of course, ladies and gentlemen, remains: where is Mr Mitsotakis taking it? It is clear that with his political choices and his handling he has already taken full responsibility for the Greek people. I come to the other big theme of the day, battle with the coronary. A record of incidents in Attica, deaths again in nursing homes, health workers, local lockdowns in many regions of the country, and insecurity, as you can see, of citizens in red. What does the government answer? The government says it's the citizens' fault. It is clear that after the end of the quarantine they have underestimated the development of the pandemic, they have not prepared, strengthened the National Health System, organized primary health care, did not carry out any more controls, provided no solutions to public transport, protected structures and, of course, the vulnerable groups. What did the government do? The government wanted to quickly capitalise political benefits from handling the first phase of the pandemic. And that is precisely what, ladies and gentlemen, is being proved not only inappropriate and inappropriate today, but also dangerous in the end for the health and life of the citizens. Because what we are living in Attica is the result of government manipulations, it is the responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis and his government. I'm coming to education. In education, the situation is really explosive. Locked schools either from quarantine or from occupations. The government says it's the kids' fault. They haven't done anything for six months so that the schools can be safely opened. What did they do? There in April - May - I will put it in the Minutes - with which they said that there will be fifteen children in classes, and immediately after that, they brought a law that canceled the FEK as if we were done with the pandemic and could be between twenty-five and thirty in both public and private schools. I also make the original FEC and the law with which it was subsequently annulled. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Finally, with these choices, they imposed the crowd in the classroom. And then the mask fiasco - gigantic the only protection left for children is cucumber. It forced them to be on each other in the classes, but it prevents them from meeting out of them in public spaces. The government's only response to the anxiety of children is authoritarianism, child stigmatisation and the tolerance of the government towards tensions that no one knows where they will lead. The students, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will not postpone their lives. It is your responsibility to provide solutions and answers to make the schools open and safe. Stop, finally, playing the crown - letter and health and education! Ladies and gentlemen, more than ever Greeks need a state that is friendly, reliable, effective, truly perfect. The pandemic has shown how great it has a well-organised state and what role it can play. But what does the government actually do? In fact, there is a great deal of distance from words in practice here. Mr. Mitsotakis was talking about the ultimate state. In practice, he created "Maximou S.A.", a centralised structure, hard controlled by him, with the center of the Maximos Mansion. Government presiding with four hundred forty people, of course a hundred of them. No confidence in the public sector, no essential role being played by the ministers, simply execute the decisions of the Great Maximus. It's all set by the chosen ones. The remodelling of the Dogac has shown us and exactly how the Environment Recovery Fund will be exploited. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke in election about exquisite and worthy. In practice, instead of excellent ones. Anxiety at her peak. The deep state of the right is back here. The Heads of Government are chosen on the basis of their party identity. Passport? The IAEA's word. On 11 June, wardens were placed without criteria in prison despite the provisions of the relevant law calling for evaluation. The Ministry of Education replaces all educational directors by law, of course, with only party friends everywhere. Instead of permanent civil servants, contractors are recruited under fast track procedures, creating a generation of workers in continuous hostages. What we are again living for, ladies and gentlemen, is the re-establishment of the state over Karamanlis, which, as you well know, has led to wastes, the enlargement of the state, a client state, the derailment of the Greek economy, the crisis and ultimately the Memorandums. And it's not just a repeated mistake, it's a right-wing obsession for the manipulation of the state and the institutions. Mr. Mitsotakis blamed SYRIZA's orgy with the posters, and in one year he broke every record. From a thousand seven hundred ten poster in July 2019, we reached two thousand eight hundred ninety-two poster two months ago. I'm tabling the relevant table for the minutes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Approximately every month a hundred poster recruitments, the joy of the poster. Every minister can't have anyone he wants, just as long as he says he needs them. There's no limit, there's no wall. Recipients can be recruited without qualifications and can be placed as department managers as well as managers. This is done in positions relating to the management of technical projects and the payment of orders, in particular the Ministry of Migration and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. There 37% of the employees are posted. We paid EUR 136 000 for advisory services to officials from the Ministry of Immigration technical service, all of which are of course abstract. Since they did not do and need counselling to be able to pay, why did they hire them? On what criteria did they take them? It has been abolished and the obligation for consultants to have degrees even of the ministers' directors. And the new entrant retired under a previous SYRIZA provision, which the New Democracy of course did not abolish, takes precedence over thirteen pay graduations. The party friend collects what the civil servant has been waiting for for too many years to get. The civil servant was, of course, excluded from the suspension of the solidarity levy in 2021. It is obvious that Mr Mitsotakis, despite the great cuts that the civil servants have accepted over the years, ranks them among the privileged. It's just unacceptable! Mr Mitsotakis announced and an independent authority for the administration of human resources and the reorganisation of public administration. In practice, the party's control over everything from the New Democracy party. The Secretary-General has been appointed on the basis of who is good at the Prime Minister's office. It is clear that political notes have been sold. Friends and relatives, even advocates, are placed at all levels of the administration, with a more recent example of the administration of hospitals. A special allowance has been provided for these consultants and partners who are also retired. Private offices are being created that do not refer to their natural head, but where? Directly to political leadership. This has recently been done to EEAS. They're in public administration. Legal persons of private law, public law and other structures are constantly being created, which are announced at the outset will be carried out by distractions and, as the weather passes, the secondments are, of course, replaced by posters. Mr. Mitsotakis has announced the good law. In practice? All legal retrospectively. By special provision of the Ministry of Health, all costs incurred for the coronary have been legalised regardless of quality, compliance with the contractual obligations of suppliers for the supplyable materials. Legislative acts were used to make parties with opaque conventions and day services. The law on self-government has only been published in public consultation for four days. He came to Parliament three months later and then we found that out of ninety-four articles only twenty-three had been posted. As Minister of Administrative Reform in 2014, Mr Mitsotakis had attempted to circumvent the “GENERAL”. Then, of course, the strong reaction of PASOK had prevented him. Now he's screwing with S.H.I.E.L.D. He's trying to deceive him. It creates controlled committees for the planning of recruitment, multiplies the procedures, mobility, secondments, transfers, positions of supervisors, derogations and, of course, the remuneration and remuneration of members of committees. It is characteristic that the President of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration in the first ten months signed a hundred fifty-five direct assignments and only six related to the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, these practices and logic are outdated and old-fashioned. It is very far from the needs of the Greek society, as well as the enormous need for the recovery of the Greek economy. We have described another way for the public administration, with a state headquarters, digital, modern, aiming to serve the citizen, but also business, with radical decentralisation of resources and responsibilities in Grade I and II, with centralized planning, but decentralised function, so that decisions can be taken as close to the citizen as possible, so with strong accountability, with transparency for every act of public administration, with integrity away from the logic of the party state and the customer relations that keep Greece established. This state you are building, Minister, is not worth Greece: Rusfetti, customer relations, extraction and corruption again. There is a progressive way out with our programme for new change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Giannakopoulou, Member of the Movement of Change B2' West Athens, has the floor for five minutes for her protology. If you want to take the time of your dentistry, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have to tell us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u114	I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u115	Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, some fifteen months have been completed by the New Democracy Government. This is a period of time enough to draw conclusions on a number of issues and, of course, on how the New Democracy Government feels about it. I am sorry, Minister, but the government, although it appears to swear in good legislature, does not seem to respect and respect its principles in practice. This, in fact, appeared from the first bills, which he brought to the House to a vote which he had normally implemented, of course, and SYRIZA. And of course, these bills and the way you brought them was extremely problematic. I would point out, for example, that for the first draft law, for the so-called final state, which is so much received, and that is a bill which fundamentally changes the organisation and functioning of the government, there was no consultation at all. And this, even though it had been through enough, sufficient time from the elections to the House. The next one was a "bug" bill of the Ministry of Interior, which was a collage of various regulations, modifications, arrangements, without a single philosophy. And that, Minister, was voted as an emergency without any convincing reason. You know, they say the beginning is half of everything. And this was verified in how you legislated your government. Likewise, unfortunately, it was the continuity. For example, the famous development bill, which we voted on last year, was submitted to the House on Wednesday and at 12 o'clock last night and was distributed to the MPs in the early hours of Thursday. It entered the relevant committees on Friday morning - morning, at the same time and at the same time as the Rules of Procedure require three or a minimum of two days' distance. It is Rule 89(6) of the Rules of Procedure. You must know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and keep it! Not to mention the fact that, while it had been put into public consultation for five days with eighty articles, when the bill, by the miracle, arrived in Parliament, tripled, Minister! The eighty eighth articles became two hundred thirteen and ten different ministries, articles that no one had seen before coming to the House, articles on which it had not been done and which had not been consulted at all. Ladies and gentlemen, consultation and OpenGov is not just a conquest of Greece, which took place in PASOK governments and was praised as an innovation constantly. We were strict with SYRIZA when he filed bills in the House, which he had posted for only a few nights usually, hours. We will also be strict with the New Democracy every time it violates the democratic conquests of the Greek people and the legality. If the New Democracy thinks that democratic principles and functions can be violated for any reason, the Change Movement is here to demand respect and transparency, the possibility of public dialogue that has been guaranteed for Greek citizens by projects such as "DENGY" and OpenGov. Take the law on self-government that our President also mentioned in her speech earlier. It was posted in public consultation for only four days, and objectively there was no time pressure, Minister, although the public's interest was too increased. Within these four days there have been six hundred comments from those who have been able to submit them, through the suffocating margin of these four days. This shows the enormous interest of the Greek people that, unfortunately, you deprived them of it in such short consultation. In spite of the fact that you have almost copyed the PASOK law on good legislation - and I am talking about Law 4048/2012 - in the draft law on the final state, in practice the quality of your legislation falls short and falls too short of your declarations. Especially after the pandemic occurred, you indulged into an unconditional and coin-law by means of cabinet acts. May I tell you, in part, is it understandable? Yeah, let's agree. Does it partly make sense? Yes, we must accept this in an emergency, especially as regards the issues relating to the coronary, and in no case are we talking about the retrospective legitimisation of all the costs incurred in the middle of a coronary, as did the President-in-Office. However, Minister, we have here seen provisions in these acts of legislation, which had absolutely nothing to do with the extraordinary treaty of the coronary and which have interfered with the acts of legislation. Why did you do that? Mr Minister, there is also a prior increase in the heterogeneous nature of the laws. There are thematic sections which are not linked in any way to each other, they are totally thrown out after each other, to a point where, if you want, there is no thematic policy area, a specific area of the law, but a puzzle of unrelated provisions between them. This, Minister, is the most important expression of bad legislation. It creates a huge viral load if you want to use pandemic terms, clienteles. It favours intrusion of rhetorical devices which are logical to pass underneath the radar. Where can the legislature control them all? They're lost between different heterogeneous provisions. That's the truth, and that's the reality. How to control and how to decide the parliamentary body, then, when the provisions of the bill do not have any appendix, do they not have a thematic homogeneity? I should like to close and leave to the end, but nonetheless, Mr Minister, the 'love' of the New Democracy Government for the derogatory provisions. There are exceptions everywhere, especially in public administration. The derogations concern the core, if you like, of the organization and functioning of the state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. The government majority of the New Democracy has legislated tens by way of derogation, on recruitment of officials, on procedures for public mobility, on positions of heads of government, on salaries and on remuneration to committee members. Is this how you plan to eliminate evil and pluralism? Did Mr Gerapettis mean that when he spoke in the debate on the final state, he told us that the crucial issue of the state is the existence of standardised procedures, which can be checked at all times and at all times? You are the government of exceptions, as far as the operation of the state machine is concerned, which you drive with mathematical accuracy in depreciation. And here - and I close with that, Madam President - we are not just talking about a major scandal. We are talking about the scandalous colonization of public administration by the Government of New Democracy, which is once again the cloak of seriousness, of legality, but otherwise it is constantly and systematicly trampled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u117	Madam Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u118	We, Madam President, are not going to allow you to change this. We will be here to keep an eye on you, and we will be guarantors and guardians of good law-making.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, my colleague. I would ask you to keep your time, because the procedure is long enough, and we need to close some time, of course. The speaker of the Movement of Change, from the Prefecture of Boeotia, Mr. Mulkiotis, now has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the falsified staffing of the state and government at the time of Mitsotakis government every day is seen more strongly, it is revealed. Today, a year and something from the introduction of the law on the final state, the application of the law is a long way from the rational delimitation of government function, which the New Democracy and the Mitsotakis government were so gratuitously vindicating. Instead of a more transparent, more collective and less unsatisfactory government function, the New Democracy Government itself has marginalised the concept of a state of service. The new Republic and the previous government declared the reduction to be reduced to the abolition of the retired, before taking over the country's governance. But when they came to power, they did exactly the opposite. They maintain and reproduce the layers of administration - because that is - which is made up of the posters, as it is implemented. Indeed, the number of posters in the midst of a fiscal, but also a health crisis is increasing rather than falling and all senses of democracy, equality and democracy are being devastated. It is characteristic that over a period of seven years, for which we have accurate and published data, there is a continuous increase in their number. While in January 2013 the posters were a thousand seven hundred fifty-three, in July 2020, they heard two thousand eighty-eighty-six people. I am tabling the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By easy, the Government of New Democracy has set a limit on the number of retired persons serving to the Ministers with Law 4622/2019 Article 46(2). But listen: In the same article of this law, but in paragraph 6, this threshold is withdrawn and every minister can recruit those he wants if he argues that he needs them. And is there any chance Minister won't say he needs postmans and his friends? No, of course not. Thus, ministers make use of this provision and therefore make fun of them. The number of postmasters in a year of governance of the New Democracy has increased, ladies and gentlemen, by 60%, but beyond this numerical enlargement of postmasters perhaps more important is their qualitative mutation. It was mentioned earlier by Mrs Gennimatas, the President of the Change Movement and I repeat that the quantitative standards of recruitment were reduced first. By Law 4622/2019, the New Democracy Government is demanding - because it cannot say anything else - that it has put some order on the posters, someone to be appointed in this category should have a degree in HSY. This was, of course, a safety net that argued that posters are not just best friends or friends, but scientists with specialized knowledge and a degree. That argument is not valid since the law has now been made as a minimum qualification the high school dismissal. And secondly, some others are hired as posters, who are posted chiefs of the hierarchy. Listen, Chiefs of Staff of the hierarchy! That's the squeezing of public administration! These positions, therefore, although they require the holder of an increased liability, which is the case with the Staff Code and which they do not have, are heads of civil servants. By the provision adopted by SYRIZA, which was not abolished by the New Democracy, the new entrant retired graduate precedes the ordinary civil servant by thirteen pay graduations. Some of them, in fact, enjoy even greater difference. So what does that mean? It means a party friend can collect as much as a normal civil servant waits for a lifetime to take and doesn't get it. This is the public administration of the New Democracy. It at least causes the common sense, because I can't say anything different. The position of the present Government vis-à-vis retired officials is, therefore, exactly contrary to what New Democracy allegedly claimed when it was in the Opposition. Instead of putting an end to the messengers' case, now, directly, what are you doing? Every day that passes, it proves that your purpose is not to fundamentally reform the public administration, but to consolidate what has been heard: "Maximou S.A.". This is the truth and is not questionable or otherwise, to listen with great attention and interest to what this logic can mean and to see through them what it is revealed: the army of posted officials whose positions are not given, but who are gradually institutionalised and understand how many other posters the government and the final state of excellence will adopt, the Mitsotakis Government, because that is what it is called. It is a typical example of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, which became 37% of its staff posted. Why? I want to hear an opinion that at least has a justification somewhere to find a point of view. So far, nothing has been heard at all, but absolutely nothing. A strong example is also the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, where a poster's kite has no end. There to see! Dozens of posters, who are unexperienced to manage the huge humanitarian crisis in refugees, direct assignments and a new mutated type of poster. Who's that? Those who are not only recruited by the Minister for a slow payroll, but are also heads or managers with new legislation, which is currently being discussed in Parliament. In other words, posters who give orders to civil servants who, if they react, move to other services. Just like that! I am not saying this simply, but I am tabling another case of the Asylum Service, ladies and gentlemen, in the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] I also have to submit to the Minutes an e-mail of intimidation of a civil servant, sent by mistake by the President of the National Centre for Public Administration and Government to all staff. [[At this point the Member Georgios Mulkiotis submits for the minutes the above e-mail, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice]] If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the terrorism of civil servants and of the habits, what else can it be? Let's go to the FBI too, see that that's where the perfect state means a client state. arbitrary locations and movements of managers and directors with absolute party criteria, no mood for statements of responsibility, intimidation and unfavourable movements of workers who dare to express their concern, have unfortunately led to the dissolution of the EFKA and the total administrative collapse. Proof of what else is it? It is the outstanding pensions, which from a hundred and twenty-five thousand seventy-five, received by the current administration, which have reached nearly seventy-three thousand, an increase of 38% in 14 months of New Democracy's governance. A climax, of course, of so-called accomplishment and dismantling is the refusal of the administration of the EPC - listen - not to send to Parliament's Budget Office the information on the outstanding pensions and their costs in order to include in the report of the State Budget Office in Parliament and subsequently gave a number of reasons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This, ladies and gentlemen, has never been done in public service or in public service. The workers themselves are talking about a working gala to the FBI, about converting them into a box bag due to administrative failures and dependencies, they experience insecurity and denounce the communication fraud of digital pensions, calling the flaming or communication bubble. We don't say that, or we don't like it. That's what the workers say themselves. Here I am presenting for the minutes of the 26-6-2020, 22-7-2020 and 27-7-2020 announcements and complaints of the Panhellenic Federation of Personal Insurance Bodies. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, it is not by chance that the tendency to leave the FBI for these issues. I repeat, a tendency to exit the ECAA and retire staff, a trend which, unfortunately, can reach all five hundred workers by the end of the year alone from the ECAA and among them, many experienced staff who cannot withstand the dissolution picture they experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude, Madam President. How does the Mitsotakis Government answer that? Unfortunately, while continuing with SYRIZA's stalked-up, the government excludes ECA officials from the mobility process until 31-12-2020 and excludes the first-time mobility of the EIB officials. It thus takes advantage of the possibility that all workers in the public sector can be transferred to or seconded to another agency. We are sure that this government will, unfortunately, bring another amendment very soon in order to prolong the exemption from mobility for ECHO officials. We're here and I wish we were disproved! I would ask you very much, Minister, to listen to the genuine views of the government and of your own for the ultimate state and the situation we are experiencing. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The reason is the Drama MP of the Movement of Change, Mr. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we wish you all the best for your health adventure. Iron!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u126	Starting, I would like to say that we cannot talk about a timely and timely response. It is a question that has been tabled since last February. It is therefore being discussed today, but thanks to government policy, it remains timely. Today, 15 months after the elections, despite the high percentages of Prime Minister's acceptance in polls, if you look carefully behind the illusory picture, you see a government which is uncoordinated, without any reliable justification for its arrhythmias, mistakes and failures. The good intentions and the work of some units are lost in the range of old-fashioned perceptions, in the regular services of friends, friends, supporters, who have indeed "founded" in the election struggle, "blue-blue, medium-sized, large-scale executives and superstitions, and who have considered that now is their time to manage the challenges of the era, the needs, the labor, the deprivations and the hopes of an entire people. Final state for us means smart, flexible, efficient and reliable state. This model was also advertised by the Prime Minister in an election and with this it fascinated much of the Greek society. Citizens beyond your party audience who were not followers, who were not even voters, put their hopes to the government for a modern state. So this last state as it was advertised quietly was buried in ministerial drawers or worse in Moria's ashes after the pressures of local "blue" actors and outdated or the delays of party positions of training directors. How final can a state that turns Mytilini into a battlefield between residents and MM last winter, with a dramatic ending of Moria into flames a few weeks ago? How clever the state that the Minister of Health is opposed to his heroes, hospital doctors just the day before yesterday, because they are complaining about the tragic shortages in staff and infrastructure, about the minimum recruitments of contractors with an end date, about movements of personnel and infrastructure from one hospital to another, from health centres to hospitals with "integrated" - please! - for ten and fifteen days a month? How flexible and effective is the state with the Minister of Education, instead of talking to the educational and apprenticeship community, to show self-repressiveness and narrow-mindedness because they complain about unacceptable conditions of health and safety in schools? Unfortunately, for the last 15 months this state has been the final state established by the New Democracy, a state where reforms have been announced to drown the next one in analgesia, bureaucracy and, above all, in the systematicly small and larger rumours within the administration, extinguishing its web. Examples of the multitude of education are too much. I will begin with a last and very strong one: Mrs Kerame recently announced the exclusion of students from the occupations. Open school for the future with exclusion from learning is at least miserable, meaning incompatible. What did he do? He managed to open Hailus's amusement, he managed to set up the explosives himself and to energize any dialogue he was trying to start. For example, the "wrap-walk" in education - on the footsteps of SYRIZA - is still going on by you, with the sole aim of the party control. After having kept and for a year, the government decided that this should change the law by means of a decision of the S.H.E., of purely Syrian education officials, in August last year. So he pushed out the 'pink' and put it - beware, he placed - he did not choose - the 'blue' strains, with a sudden amendment, without objective criteria, without any assessment, with only the party passport, a public cynical confession of authoritarianism, arbitrariness, partisanism and anxiety without pretext. A whole year of course it took the head of the Ministry of Education to locate them. In this period he refused to abolish the laws of SYRIZA, refused to restore the transparent procedures of Law 3848/2010 for the structures and selection of training staff. Moreover, to date, despite the misinterpretations on the part of the Change Movement, it has decommissioned the only rated training executives. We're talking about ninety school advisors and training directors. Of course, SYRIZA had taken care of the Gabroglou Ministry to overrule them in the simplest way: He abolished the institutions of supervision, guidance, control and evaluation. For example, how effective can it be a state that, in the midst of a pandemic, the Ministry of Education has not yet given clear instructions to schools on when and with what confirmation will children who have suffered from febrile illness returning? And unfortunately, the pediatricians, when listening to the expert's instructions, refuse to issue a certificate that they do not suffer from Covid - 19, if the necessary examination is not carried out first, the cost of which - and it is not a small amount - is between EUR 70 and 150 - is borne by the parents themselves. For example, fourthly, is it possible in this generalized logic of the fancy wrapping, the Ministry of Education, when it has failed to solve the key problems in the schools that the pandemic has brought, to present itself as an authoritarian pedophile, making a threat and a measure of conscientiousness, i.e. the announcement of the replacement of lost hours of instruction due to the seizures? Instead of discussing with truths and arguments, instead of hearing and hearing, he gets into a meaningless, unnecessarily, inappropriate, harmful confrontation, trying a ridiculous demonstration of power? And who? The ones who raise the burden of unprotected measures? To those who will implement the short-sighted decisions of the Ministry? The ones who will pay the Ministry's inadequacy bill? Teachers, teachers and students, of course, mean. For example, fifthly, as we move forward, we always finally and flexiblely, the Ministry of Education comes and presents last summer, always depleting all communications possibilities, multi-project broom for all levels of education. And that is nothing but a summation of declarations invoked by fancy titles, fragmentary arrangements, without content, without a plan, without consistency. The unforgettable live relay of a school class is presented as a revolutionary reform. I am neither standing in the fact that the Ministry of Education did not ask for the approval of the Privacy Authority nor the findings of those who are struggling in every way to stick to it yesterday. What I'm saying is that the digital school, if you really were interested in the government, is absolutely possible and it's a completely different thing. In these international developments, which are rapid, which new technologies are mocking, we have neither a strategy nor a dialogue tool, which is no more than the National Education Council. When are we going to go in tiny ways, with syndicate logic, with fragmentary policies, which are undoing everything so badly?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u127	Madam Colleague, please. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u128	Can the planning of education be a personal matter of each Minister? Let's finally agree that the toys on the kids' backs are coming to an end. We cannot destroy the future of the country. Let us agree that education plays a central role in productive orientation, in development, in the development of the country, in social cohesion, in the creation of responsible and active citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u129	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u130	Give me half a second to close my thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen, does the suffocating control of public administration by the prime minister's office meet with the state's colonisation? Where does it correspond to the credibility that he must give in and the merits of his action? This can only be called a perversion of the term. In just Greek some other way it's called. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Poulas, MP Argolid of the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u132	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the public sector is the backbone of our country. And it is a pity that, instead of keeping him as a clambled machine, governments over time are dealing with it in a one-dimensional and absolutely unique way as a vilaetti as a field of ruptured power. The only political party that managed to overcome the power complexes and the perpetuation of the chair, while it was government and even dominant in the political scene, was PASOK, no matter how unlike some, nor should they listen to it or remember it. PASOK created the ASAP, the law of Peponies, the "DIAGY", the evaluation mechanism in the public sector. PASOK has been under every reformist and progressive initiative that has promoted dignity, transparency and dignity in the country over the past decades. Minister, we must finally speak the language of the truth. The Government of New Democracy, with the first bill submitted to Parliament, has promised a perfect state, which, among other things, will coordinate, direct, launch and monitor existing public structures to create a state with the least possible bureaucracy, with digital structures and high-quality officials and standards. Have you seen such a development so far? And only the management of the pandemic with the inexhaustible salts, the conflicting measures, the "demands" with the tests, with the lack of central coordination, proves that the state itself either does not perform or does not exist. In the area of health you chose to continue the slippery path of choosing administrations in hospitals through a party tube as an antidote of party commitment instead of the creation of a valuable value selection mechanism. As far as the positions of the heads are concerned, you continue to choose friends, "days" and willing as substitutes, as the service councils remain inert and the service crises on the ice. There is a body of complaints from people who serve in the ESS for "exploitation" of executives who have spent years in positions of responsibility without any justification in order to help your own people. You are taking advantage of the pandemic, in order to make a favourable transfer of subsidiary personnel, by decision of the governors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You choose to recommend by legislative acts that include urgency, private-law legal persons, so that you can also appoint elastics to create. It seems, however, that your neoliberal policy is protecting you from turning legal persons governed by public law into legal persons under private law. For example, it's ETA. I think it is incomprehensible to continue the same model of administration, to transform legal persons under public law into legal persons under private law. I would remind you that under the pretext of dealing with Covid you are claiming to have carried out over eight thousand recruitments. Of them, only four hundred seventy one are doctors. The rest of them where are they? Where are they serving and who are they? Is it in the TOMY, which, while you announced the recommendation of five hundred, eventually only works a hundred and a half, with intakes of absolute opacity, without any provision of specific criteria and qualifications? And you come back and legislate for their full employment. At the same time, because of the pandemic, the support of the ERC is required with additional recruitment of qualified staff, you choose to open a competition for the recruitment of a thousand two hundred nine workers in hospitals, of which only one hundred thirteen are of university education. Therefore, instead of stepping up public hospitals to meet the current needs, you choose the deterioration of public hospitals and, above all, the devaluation of citizens' intelligence. In order to avoid losing your credibility, you have predicted that the recruitments will be carried out under the supervision of the AACC. This is a new, nice invention, as the undersubscribed SAAP is set to the edge. Mr Minister, you have promised a government of excellence and we once again see a government of virtues. We see that you are continuing the same catastrophe as the SYRIZA government, which led the country to the arms of the monuments, to gift cuts and to the degradation of institutions and structures. We note that you are adopting the logic of the state of the chip, without any procedure for assessing and rewarding the values and with the sole criterion of promoting the communist signals. We choose, as a progressive and reformist party, to treat the public sector not as a hostage of political choices and party choices, but as a potential for the development of progress, safeguarding legality and consolidating the principles of the rule of law, democracy, transparency and integrity. We choose to strengthen the ADP and direct activation of the service councils, to recruit permanent staff with degrees and skills, to strengthen institutional counterweights to any party degeneration of the administration. Our political choice is a powerful, growing rationally and abstractly structured state that will support the regeneration of the country and will not stop putting you before your responsibilities for your harmful and anachronistic choices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor is now for the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u134	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in June 2019, a few days before the elections, Mr Mitsotakis attended the event "Greece 2021", organized by the Center for Liberal Studies. There he fully accepted all the proposals of the agenda "Greece 2021" and committed himself to the ultimate state that operates transparently and effectively, integrating the principles of evaluation and excellence. Sadly, Mr Mitsotakis, after having defied the citizens' vote, as Prime Minister, not only did he not follow his commitments, but his public sector policy is deteriorating in many areas. From SYRIZA's bale to the teratogenicity of the New Democracy. It is a typical example of your sector that you have led, in order to correct SYRIZA's previous situation, to the substantial abolition of municipal and regional councils. We call on you, Minister, and you and the Government, to continue quantitative growth in the public sector without quality improvement and efficiency. The number of people employed in the public sector is growing rapidly, but it is not about empty organic positions, but about thousands of posters, special associates, specialist consultants and members of new committees and councils established and established in almost every law. We invite you, Minister, and you and the government, for the lack of horizontal reforms which you have promised. These are reforms that are mentioned in all the reports, reports by experts and international forums, as necessary in order to be effective because their lack diminishes the quality of the services provided by the public. Corruption is still present. We invite you, Minister, and you and the government, to abuse the concept and the need for good legislature. Your legislation dominates the phrases 'by way' and 'by way of exception'. And in any institutional legislation that bears titles that society really needs to see them implement, there are transitional provisions which also absolve the titles and the original goodwill. Last but not least, there is a change. The bills come without introductory reports. First case was the Sports Bill. He didn't have a report. That means that the purpose is not coming. So it means that the bill doesn't start. The second case is yours, and I wonder how you have not noticed it, Minister. The Interior Ministry's draft law, which is now being discussed in committees, does not have a general part of the suggestion that should exist to refer to the purpose. It doesn't mean. Only the report referred to in Article or by section and capital shall be reported. Look at it. We invite you, Minister, and you and the government as a whole, of course, because the number of posters in the midst of a financial and health crisis is increasing rather than falling, and that certainly does not provide you with a price. But, above all, we call on you because, contrary to the Constitution, you are playing a public official role in people who have not been evaluated and who do not have the guarantees of their operation as civil servants. At a period of seven years for which published data are available there is a continuous increase in the number of posters. In January 2013, there were a thousand seven hundred fifty-three and two thousand eight hundred fifty-three in June 2020. The increase is 62%. I put the relevant diagram in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Tsipra government increased the poster by one thousand and your government continued to increase. In fact, it is impressive to increase per month if we look at the relevant diagram from the seventh of 2019 to the sixth of 2020, which I present. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have to tell you. All of this demonstrates the customer's consensual with SYRIZA. I would remind you that the New Democracy has embraced the criticism that we, too, have exercised in the then SYRIZA government and has committed that when it comes to the government, it will reduce the number of posters and increase the public permanent staff according to the establishment plans. Sadly, in this matter, it seems that others were saying that they are opposition and others are doing as government. I'm filing it, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We invite you, Minister, and why you advertised the famous: worthyness, excellence and evaluation. You were flagged. But then you took these flags and burial them in a chest, locked them. The Ministry of Interior itself, in June 2020, entrusted private individuals with preparing a study to form the Ministry's strategy and priorities and not the public administration. That is, while he's in charge of public administration, he commissioned private individuals with a job that he could do. He has no confidence in the people of the Ministry, in the executives, in the experts who exist, in the more than a hundred and fifty graduates of the National School of Public Administration, in the hundreds of doctoral holders and he will give it to a private company that can give it to an expert to write but not even have this experience and these qualifications. Civil servants become wheeled by the presence of individuals in the state and administration. In the Ministries, unfortunately, companies are no longer only coming to do a study of individual, expertise or anything else that may be needed, but they also exercise management, and that is really as Mr Mulkiotis said, 'confidence'. Finally, we ask you to work on the ASEP, you involve it to use the brand name alone, you also put an ASP representative as a cherry in a party-built committee, and this is unfortunately not to upgrade it. Minister, it has been very quickly revealed that you represent a particular type of liberalism, which not only needs the country, but which also acts as a brake on the necessary changes and reforms so as to address the new risks that arise worldwide. I believe that this state-owned liberalism, which sees the state as a spoil, is the only change that we have seen happen, because the new Caranics of supposedly liberalism wear a tie, but they express a similarly vicious perception of the state far away from morality. Reforms and changes need our administration and we do not see this in any way from you, rather than a miserable settlement and management of problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. On behalf of the government, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, will take the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before entering my position on the issues that have been discussed today, to thank you, too, from the Step of the House, for your kind wishes to pass on to my recent little health adventure. Today's debate is about almost all the issues of political topicality and the agenda of government policy. Allow me to make the assessment, after I say that I have followed the positions of the Members of the Change Movement very carefully and that they follow. There is often a distance from truth and reality in these places. I will make specific reference to this, and I think that the choice now being made is a political strategy of the Party of Change in an attempt to surround its political space. It is perfectly legitimate in politics, it is perfectly understandable to me, but that must be done in terms of credibility and obedience to the truth and to the reality. So let me begin with the position that has been made earlier by the Head of the Change Movement, which concerns developments in the national issues and the yesterday's summit in Europe. I think that we should also put micro-participatory purposes into the band and speak on real terms. The Prime Minister gave a national tough battle, defending the country's interests, at a very difficult time and in difficult connections. And it succeeded, on the part of the joint communiqué in Europe, to send out a clear message of unity, solidarity and determination on the part of the European Union and to make it clear that there should be a lifting of any unilateral action on the part of Turkey as a prerequisite for improving its relations with the European Union. You know very well that the original texts were moving in a much more difficult direction to national interests and it required a very large, coordinated and strong effort, which is a follow-up to a comprehensive single national strategy adopted by the government to address the challenges that exist on the part of our neighbours. I also think that we are in a historic period before it, which has very serious developments and the Greek people can benefit from them only if there is complete national unity and national strategy. For this reason, I repeat, it would be much better for everyone to be much more careful, vibrant and solid in their criticism. The second issue concerns schools and occupations. I would like to say quite clearly that I do not think there is any problem with seizures in schools. The worst school is closed school. And closed school is mostly worse for the children of weak families. Because children whose families have greater financial potential and comfort will on a daily basis replace lost ground, whether with or without care. We all know them, we've all been through them, in whatever capacity, student, teacher, teacher, parent. That's why I want to get through a message. This government listens to the students, listens to teachers and teachers. We're on the same side of the hill. We're not across the street. I'm the last person to say there are no problems. Of course, there are problems and the governments are here to do everything they can to deal with them. And that's what this government does. He does everything he can to deal with the issues and problems of education. I would therefore like to address a call to our children to enter the path of dialogue, debate and cooperation and there to channel their claim, which I repeat is legitimate. Addressing all political forces, I should like to say that I think we are all mature enough and know that the mobilisation of children and pupils does not result in political changes. Nobody has any party benefit. Even those who are nailed when they try to do so know very well that partisan profit does not work. So let us leave things in space and education in order to find the best solutions. As the most common thing that Antipopulation is doing at this time is to talk about this famous mask issue, let me tell you something clearly. What has bothered too many is that this government, this interior ministry, decided to support self-government, giving self-government free masks to children. The great discomfort was that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced the decision to be given by the state, through self-government, through the grant made by the Ministry of Interior to the CEDEFOP, free of charge to children. This ruins the story of the "no sensitive" for the poorest world Prime Minister, this account you wanted to create, the account of the man who is "extremely neoliberal" and "does not care about the weak families". That is why now some are disturbing because the solution has been found. There was the known failure. It was announced yesterday in the debate that took place here yesterday, the Minister of State, Mr Gerapitris. The solution has been organized in cooperation with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, so that within the next period children have taken at least three masks and ensure that an instrument of personal protection and public health is available to children. I would suggest that you find something better and more serious for opposition for the next period. Thirdly, I have heard a lot of talk from the first speaker of the Change Movement - Mrs Liikanouli is not here - on the issues of self-government. The government, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Minister of the Interior, in these fourteen months, has done very important things that show that it is committed to strong support for self-government - both in the municipalities and in the regions - to strong support for self-government. We are committed to transfer serious resources to self-government and we are preparing the serious reform of the transfer of HISA within the four years. In the difficult period of this year due to a coronary, we have so far given the self-government exceptional financial support of EUR 145 million. And I have not heard you say anything, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that you should do so for reasons of elementary objectivity - for the most serious reform, in my humble opinion, which we have done this time - in terms of practical and immediate effect - which was the famous opportunity for all households, all families and all the citizens of the square meters of their homes which were not declared, to pay municipal fees. Didn't you know about it all these years? The governments didn't know? The ministers didn't know? The mayors didn't know? Didn't all of us know about it? But this government took this initiative. And at first I fell into it. That's the reality. But society responded. Two million six hundred and fifty thousand citizens put in the band a guilt relationship to create a relationship of trust with the state. Not with this government, but with the state, with the state as a whole. These people have saved fees and fines of 1.5 billion euros - please very much - and sixty million square meters have been declared. We have ensured with this measure over 120 million a year for local government. This is for you, isn't it reform? At the same time, you know very well that in self-government we have immediately solved the problems of governance with the universal acceptance of all mayors regardless of where they belong politically. They also know that the doors of the Ministry of Interior are wide open to everyone and there is no choice, no priority depending on where no mayor and no regional mayor belong politically. For us all are the same, because they represent this people and local communities. At the same time, we have guaranteed EUR 2.5 billion through the Antonis Tritsis programme for the four-year project programme through twelve calls for a wide range of issues, problems and actions, supporting self-government so that it can be highly absorbed. And we are running this programme very rapidly. Isn't that a reform? And of course we were next to self-government on the difficult days of the pandemic, supporting and upgrading its social policy, strengthening the famous 'Help at Home' programme, ensuring, with the legislative intervention we are now doing, that there is no gap at all and that there is no problem with the current workers until the workers who will normally come from the ADP competition, which is in full progress and moves forward. And because you said things about the SAPA, you will allow me to tell you that here too you must be very careful. This government has proved by means that its main objective is to put an end to the partisanism in the Greek public sector and to work as hard as possible to act as the creativity and evaluation. To this end we have established a very crucial institution, the Secretary Service. Their choice was made by a committee where the AACC plays a dominant role and a reason. Don't you know that? Their responsibilities are very great. They play a powerful role within the ministries. Come to the Ministry of Interior and find out. They participate in the formulation of politics and implementation of things as senior members of the public service hierarchy. Isn't that a reform? Why is there no courage to say things by their name? I believe - and I say this again - that this is a better way of documenting a political strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we have all been called upon to face an extremely difficult time not only in Greece, but throughout Europe and throughout the world because of the coronary pandemic. This has forced us to redefine priorities and objectives and to restructure our strategy in the public sector too. I think that we all have a common goal, to get out of the pandemic season with the smallest possible losses, especially in human life, to protect the health of the citizens, to protect the public sector workers and, of course, to protect the people who come to public services to serve and to contribute to citizens' effective information so that in the next few months we can cope with the battle with the invisible enemy. That is why you know that the Ministry of Interior and the overall government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis took very important measures to protect workers and citizens through a series of regulations which were included in circulars, which have been implemented and the results I think were very important and positive. This circumstance, as it were, certainly also affected the procedures for the pending selection notices for heads and for the reopening of selection procedures for the heads. Of course this is, in any case, a fundamental concern for me as the Minister for the Interior. In particular, we provided for the reconstruction of all the collective selection bodies, the Special Selection Councils and the Selection Councils. With the participation of the Secretaries in the Special Councils - an institution established by Law 4622 - the aim is to dismantle the state and follow-up to the administrative function of the Ministries. We have given very detailed instructions with our circular on the end of the term of office of the existing members of the institutions, and it has been clarified in all staff directorates that they should reconstruct the three special councils, which should then examine the remaining posts at any stage for directors, directors and divisions. We have taken care immediately after completing the selection and placement of the secretaries to participate in the selection boards. He followed a new Circular of the Ministry of Interior in June 20020 with clear instructions in order to obtain the notice for the post of Heads of Service. That was and is necessary because you know that several service secretaries selected were Directors-General of Ministries. There are therefore vacant posts of Directors-General because of their choice as Service Secretarys. But there are also positions of responsibility for Heads of Administrations of Ministries which end in the next few years. In view of this fact, therefore, the Ministry of Interior has already launched preparatory actions for the adoption of the relevant new notices and this procedure for the adoption of the notice on the selection of the new directors-general will take place in October. So I really find it hard to understand the arguments that your question has developed that the aim of the Ministry of Interior and that government is to perpetuate the award system. If that were really the purpose of this government, we would have absolutely no reason to bring in the new law, which was passed a few months ago when you had tabled the question and then this question had a timeline. If we were to be with the logic that we have, we would prefer not to change anything, to leave the situation of the former in full and to continue with a process of redeployment of heads and delegations. However, the reality is that with Law 4674, which entered into force on 11 March, we have made significant changes in the choice of heads. We are creating a uniform and homogeneous system of selection of heads of administration and the local government after fully harmonising the provisions for Otto A' and B' employees, rationalise the mobilisation of the time spent in positions of responsibility in order to allow all employees elected and weighted to participate in the selection process, of course, in accordance with their service course. The evaluation reports of officials are also used to develop, together with their work experience and formal qualifications, a minimum number of conditions to be met in order to be eligible for responsibility. With this regulation, we have also enabled young employees who are qualified to be positively evaluated and able to take a responsibility. Madam President, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u137	You have 20 minutes and if you want you can use your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u138	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u139	Your denture is ten more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. Our will, therefore, is to choose the most appropriate to take responsibility, and this undoubtedly contributes to the rational distribution of resources, to better efficiency, to the more effective exercise of the powers of the individual body. That is precisely why, very soon, in October or early November, the draft law on the new structured recruitment process of regular staff through the upgraded AAR, with the introduction of a written tender and the emphasis on skills and personality, in order to achieve that the right person will be recruited to the right place. I believe at this point that you have a glorious field of glory to participate in this critical reform and to contribute with positive and creative ideas on how the objectivity and integrity of the new system can really be guaranteed, which I think is already embraced in particular by young people, who begin to understand that there is a prospect for them as well. At the same time, under the legislation of L.4674 there is a point and targeted intervention in the existing system of selection of heads, which provides - what are the interventions - the following: The employment performance of the candidates as reflected in the evaluation reports for the last three years. Prior exercise of responsibility at least at department level, if we are talking about Heads of Directorates-General and Directorates-General. In terms of mobilisation of the Criteria Groups is to increase the mobilisation of relevant postgraduate and doctoral degrees, we are more mobilising them. The possibility of modulation and non-relevant postgraduate or doctoral qualifications in order to recognize the staff member's ability to respond to this academic level as well. The reduction in moleculosis for seminars, because I think we have all experienced the situation, the experience in which various certifications are gathered for self-interesting reasons, but no matter the purpose of the specific position that the official is required to serve. Better weighting of the level of knowledge of foreign languages is taken into account while the total service time is calculated separately over time for a civil servant and, separately, for a staff member. The calculation for service time in the liability positions shall be divided into months for the benefit of the staff members. The molecules are also classified in a liability position depending on the level at which they were found. All of this harmonizes with the provisions of the Code of Local Authorities with regard to the conditions, criteria, procedures, selection bodies of heads, etc. In the field of self-government, the new Special Staff Board is set up to select Heads of General Directorates to the municipalities and the associations of municipalities and their other matters of service, for which the Staff Board is consulted, with the participation of the IASC, the Legal Board of State and the EMCDDA, which has been requested by letter. The three-member selection boards of heads consisting of the Secretary-General of the Municipality of the relevant Board of Directors, the Legal Adviser or the Adviser of the Legal Board of State as President, the Head of Directorate-General serving at any OTA I level of the relevant decentralised administration for the selection of the heads of directors or the intermediate, between directors and department, of an organisational unit. It is also noted that we have anticipated for former heads of administration the possibility of switching, if they so wish, to the staff sector so that the younger members of the public administration can assist with their knowledge and experience. Let me conclude with three points. It is clear that the law to which I am referring is part of a comprehensive plan of structural changes to the public, of quality changes related to modernisation, and of speeding up all procedures. Soon, as I told you before, the draft law on modernisation, upgrading the ADP and speeding up, digitising and facilitating the recruitment process of regular staff will come to Parliament. I would like to stress that under the law of the state of staff, which is so easy to overcome with various intelligence, for the first time is already taking place - the Ministerial Council has met very recently - the planning of recruitment in the public sector on an annual basis. There is a specific, organised, digitised procedure that collects the demands of all public bodies, takes into account the country's budgetary situation and its prospects, and specific priorities for appointment are being developed, so that society, the administration system, the government, obviously the political system as a whole, are known, the citizens who are planning recruitment in the public sector for next year. This is a reform which, too, I do not understand why it should not be accepted positively by all of us. It facilitates very importantly and finally sets order in a chaotic situation that has existed for so many years and decades in the country. We are also making progress in modernising procedures and investing in the best possible use of public administration staff. This is the potential of the law we have previously spoken about, and with its implementation we intend to build a hierarchy, free of syndicate logic, party logic and favorability. We have therefore created a system for selecting public leaders that ensures autonomy and continuity of the administration, regardless of the parties' rotation in the governance of the place, implements and monitors the implementation of public policies effectively and efficiently. Legislative interventions contribute - in terms of rationality and efficiency - to filling the positions of responsibility, on the basis of current practices to achieve public service missions for the benefit of the community as a whole. In total - and I come to second point - our concern is that of entrepreneurial democracy in the public sector, at the same time as creating the framework for creating career opportunities for all employees, who are entitled to have objectives and ambitions as workers in the public sector. I believe that all this is self-evident and we are doing so. It is necessary for the Head to have experience of human resources management beyond antiquity or increased formal qualifications. It is necessary for the supervisor to be able to demonstrate an excellent performance in his or her actual duties. At the last point of great value, as far as essential qualifications are concerned, we all need general directors, Heads of State and Government who have the capacity to truly exercise command. Their administration needs it. The country needs them. There are too many excellent civil servants, workers, who work hard and who have been tested at this time of the coronary pandemic in very difficult conditions. We need people who are in the public administration's struggles to improve the functioning of bodies with a final benefit only to the citizen. Of course, however, we do not need leading molecules from the various competitions, at least not without this being part of a structured system of service for the real service needs. I therefore believe that the law that we have adopted and implemented has all the guarantees of a fair and transparent procedure, because it is precisely in its philosophy that there is a system that is objective and imprecise, which is to root, evolve and possibly have improvements in the future. In this spirit of evaluation and improvement, the proposals which we are preparing for new legislative arrangements are also included in order to link the crisis of the heads of government to the staffing processes of each body. In particular, the completion of the selection procedures of the heads, which is the sole responsibility of each body to be a prerequisite for any body to submit a request for staff, whether by taking part in mobility procedures or for new recruitments. And in this direction of structural changes there is also the further rationalisation of the system of selecting civil servants at positions of responsibility through the formulation of a process which explores, weights and evaluates candidates' personalities, with emphasis on leadership and administrative skills. On this point, I would like to inform you that the European Commission is one of the institutions using skill tests as part of the evaluation of its staff to promote and promote staff in further positions of responsibility. At the same time, we are going ahead with the introduction of teleworking in the public in the coming months by creating the relevant legislative framework, through the comparative study of applications in foreign countries, making best use of best international practices. We move on to modern forms of management and development of human resources skills with specific goals that we set per service and measurable results. We are setting up a new objective system for evaluating public administration officials, which will take into account the contour of each job. Ladies and gentlemen, all the latter will certainly be the object of the interior ministry's legislation in the next period. The main responsibility of the Ministry of Interior is to legislate on the public sector. Of course, top position in this programming is the new multi-level governance law with which the responsibilities between the state and self-government, between the two degrees of self-government, with our clear political will to further strengthen selfgovernment with powers and responsibilities that will be accompanied by the respective resources and staff. And because this is what I have heard from time to time call it various opposition parties, I will repeat the following: Behold glorious field, contribute with ideas, thoughts, in order to achieve the greatest possible and consensual result. After all, the committee set up by the Ministry of Interior to prepare this law and at the level of the president and at the level of its composition is extremely pluralist. It concerns the whole range of positive proposals and progressive ideas to move forward with the Greek State. I believe, therefore, that everyone's contribution to the next period, beyond and outside the familiar opposition and micro-participatory purposes that they occasionally appear in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement Charalambos Kastanides, MP I Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for the Interior has assured us that the government in which he is involved is always willing to listen to everyone, society, citizens and students. If the model of Minister-in-Office for Dialogue for Mr. Theodorikos is Mrs.Kerameos, the Minister of Education, then it is explained why the Minister-in-Office of the Interior today has not given any response to the very specific objections of my fellow Members of the Change Movement. No answer! He chose to read his future intentions. He said nothing about the dramatic increase in the number of posted officials. He said nothing about placing various responsibilities in positions of directors or in positions of Heads of Departments, and I am speaking again about the posters. He said nothing about the area of education or the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, or the area of health or the ECA. Absolutely nothing! I have had the great expectation, I assure you, that when he told us that much of what we said - my colleagues said - is at a distance - a very modest expression - from the truth that something would be said. He didn't say anything. And I understand him, because his government is controlled for the 15-month period since the elections of 7 July 2019. Has the Minister wondered whether it is a reform that the selection of the staff secretaries was made by the five-member committee of senior Staff Selection Board and immediately raised the question: If he considers that he considers that he considers the choice of the staff secretaries by the five-member evaluation committee of the AACC, why does he not do the same thing as the draft law which he proposes so that the administrative staff of the legal persons governed by public law or private law, for which he is responsible for the appointment of the administration, are placed by a decision of the five-member committee of the AACC? Why? Because behind every action by the government is the party pursuit and party selfishness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u143	The legal advisers, did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u144	Not legal advisers. I said: the administrations of legal persons governed by public law. So that's where the party pursuit is hidden. Madam President, I have to tell you that on the basis of a 'great historical truth' I have had the hope that since the state was re-established in 2004-2009 there would be no reason for it to be founded or re-established by the New Democracy in 2019, that is to say by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. However, today, with a'reform' tebo it is founding and re-establishing. It founds the National Transparency Authority, but the choice of the head of the National Transparency Authority is made by the Prime Minister personally. He's founding the ultimate state. I am absolutely certain that they have a complete confusion in their head over what is a state that is an end in science - administrative science - not what is an enduring state in the view of the government. They know very well what they're doing. They are establishing the final state within a 'global' organization, such as the presidency of the Government, with five Secretary-General, a Special Secretariat, five hundred forty-six employees, as has been said. If you are counting on the staff of the National Intelligence Service, which is added to the Prime Minister's responsibilities, the number is much higher. But about forty percent are posthumous and the rest are seconded civil servants. And because the final state was a "intelligent" idea - I do not know if it was Mr Gerapitris or Mr Mitsotakis or anyone else - I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Minister, 15 months ago: you announced - because the first law that you voted was No4622 - that in order for there to be an integrated programming plan, the integrated government plans, they would meet at spring meetings - not the guardians - the post-seals with the secretaries for the preparation of annual government planning. Is there any such move so far? But, ladies and gentlemen, before I return to these kinds of remarks and conclude, I would like to say to the Minister, who felt the need for the President of the Change Movement to defend the Prime Minister and to show him as a battle in the Council, that he must choose what a comparison is to explain whether something that has been achieved is a national success or a failure. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] If the comparison measure for Mr.Theodorikos is the original text of the Council - which was uncooked - there is no doubt that the final compromise reached is better than the original text of the Council. I would like to remind him, however, that this is a very low cue, because only a few days ago the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister assured the Greek people that they were working, in full harmony with the competent European Commission bodies, and the relevant ministers to at least have a uniform, clear and specific list of sanctions against Turkey, which will even be activated in the event of a new diversion. Not only is this not the case, but the text of yesterday's summit refers to the next December, while it provides for specific punishment measures for Belarus, it refers to the next December, when it reconsiders the Euro-Turkish agenda. He's not announcing any threat at all, he says in general that we have all the tools at the table. But this is not a success, it is a national backwardness. That is why I said that the comparison measure used is important. Ladies and gentlemen, because my time has fallen to half, I would like to close - with the tolerance of the Bureau - with a general remark. There are some "insurmountable historical truths": In politics, everything is to blame for the PASOK. In the economy, it's all about the illiterate public sector. In education, it's all the students' fault. In public administration, it's all the civil servants' fault. In bankruptcy all others are to blame except those who created it. And that is what I have to say to you that it is also a measure of success, because if you go bankrupt the country, you have the opportunity to return yourself to the government, electorally wholehearted. This is our historical experience. For the first time I would like to express one wish in public at the same time: I hope that it will not be proved - and I know exactly what I say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen - over the next 15 years that, for the second time, the same party will lead to bankruptcy in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u145	Mr Buga, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the recent events, the debate has been generalised. Both Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Kastanides referred to the results of the recent summit. But while they said who the bar was before and after that they did not mention, they did not explain what was their own measure of success, what they expected from the Council, because, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the decisions of the yesterday's Council is absolutely positive. It can be summarised in three proposals: the Council has condemned - and in absolute terms - Turkey's unilateral actions. It made it clear that exploratory contacts between the two countries only concern the delimitation of maritime zones. I would also like to place particular emphasis on this, because it is also the decisive one - it speaks of sanctions, even referring to two specific provisions of the Treaties, Article 29 and Article 215 of the Treaty on European Union. If, ladies and gentlemen, you have bothered to read these two articles, you would find that the process of sanctions against Turkey has actually begun, because Article 29 requires the Council's decision to activate the sanctions procedure, and then, in accordance with Article 215, where, I repeat, clear and explicit reference is made to what may be. In Article 29, the concept of European solidarity is not a moral obligation, but a legal obligation for the Member States of the European Union to assist the measures and sanctions which can be imposed under the 215, the state which is provoked and subject to aggressive behaviour. That was the one issue. I therefore think there can be no doubt that the reference to sanctions is clear, concrete and on the basis of the existing institutional framework of the European Union. It also referred to the issue of recruitment. What I have not heard from those colleagues who have spoken before me is their attitude, which is what the Change Movement is about, to this phenomenon, of occupations. I have not heard the condemnation of occupations as an anti-democratic, anti-educational phenomenon, which creates inequalities between pupils. In order to be able to say his opinion and his proposals on this matter, he must firstly state clearly and clearly how he is being placed in the face of this situation, which is currently facing secondary primary education. And to come now, very briefly, because time is limited - and the President has already made a recommendation to me - to the question raised. Ladies and gentlemen, the title - as the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure require - is: 'Urgent question'. But is it timely? If anyone sees and listens carefully to what you have said, he finds that it is not timely. You made a staple of the opposition arguments you had put forward in the government's bills, which had come for discussion, and these arguments have been repeated. Consequently, the concept of 'opportunity' does not exist. The central planning of the government is, as you know, and we have repeatedly said in this Chamber - the design of a new operational and executive state. The laws, which have so far been passed by our National Representation and the regulations that specialize them, aim precisely at transforming the state machine. In order for the country to enter the new era it can and must be necessary to change public administration. The question is clear: can this be done at a rapid pace, as the conditions of the new era impose? The answer I think is undoubtedly affirmative. As long as there is a plan, determination and, of course, cooperation with a large majority of public officials, who are doing their work with conscientiousness and self-determination. Officials must be part of the effort. After all, they will also be the main beneficiaries of the reconstruction of the public, which requires persistent and coordinated efforts from the whole of Greek society. The first bill brought by the present Government concerned the final structure of the State. The objective was specific, to strengthen cohesion between the various and subtle responsibilities between the central state and the decentralised state, between regional and local government. A specific reference to these aims and how they were specific to the legislative initiatives of the government, which are today the laws of the state, did the Minister and I do not intend to repeat it. In conclusion, however, I should like to mention the following. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been faced with an unprecedented and appalling health crisis, a crisis that we are still trying to deal with in the best possible way. Obviously, it would not be possible for the selection procedures of public administration officials to remain unaffected by these exceptional and sudden situations, which we have been called upon to deal with. The replacement under Article 87 of the Staff Code, which you have to bear with us in your timely question, is merely a temporary but necessary way of filling the positions of responsibility in the context of the continuity that must govern the functioning of the administration. It concerns the exercise of responsibility in the event of the Head's absence or impediment, as well as in the event of the coup d'état of an existing or new post of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been doing an objective assessment of the public's internal procedures since the first time, so that bureaucracy can be reduced in contact with citizens and businesses with the public. It develops the implementation of the tools of e-government, so that we are no longer uraguans, as was the case in the recent past, but that we have a public administration that is operational and reliable. In particular, the selection of directors and directors in the public sector must be a process of collaborative and fully independent, without political intervention. This is the only way to regain the confidence needed to improve the evaluation of civil servants and thus to highlight the large proportion of public officials who work responsibly and with absolute competence, despite the adverse circumstances we face. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective for a modern and functional public administration is a national objective. Here, we all need assistance without party ideas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Buga. I guess you don't have any complaints. On behalf of the Radical Left coalition Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u148	Before the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative was placed, I had planned to make a completely different speech, but I cannot help talking about what I have heard. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if there is any reason why you should not tell Parliament the truth. Are you going up to the Step of the Greek Parliament and saying that yesterday's final communiqué has sanctions for Turkey? International press, don't you read? Does the text mentioned in Belarus not read it? You think going out here and getting some press releases changes the picture? So when we say national is true, do you understand, do you feel it? You're the one who put the bar on sanctions. Mr Petsas said that we would have sanctions and they would be bitten. Mr. Pechas said it. That was the cubit that had entered from the Greek side. And we're in a more unfavourable development. And instead of coming here, admit it to talk about it, help us all in one direction, come to Parliament and lie. That's really embarrassing. The Minister earlier in his foreign policy report speaks of micro-participatory purposes in foreign policy issues. The group saying that we exchanged pensions with Macedonian, those from this step forward said they would veto the entry of northern Macedonia into the European Union, who are now looking for a rapporteur, talk about a micro-group position on foreign policy issues. What else are we gonna hear? I want to make a brief reference to student mobilizations. Ladies and gentlemen, society is alive. She can't get into a mold or a plaster or ice. You should get used to the idea that students too can protest and people of culture can protest and people of the focus can protest. And in Karditsa you will go and you will not be applauded and regarded as saviors and "Moses". What can we do? That's politics all over the world. You're a government. You'll have a social protest. Going out and calling 'tunnels' people fifteen, sixteen and seventeen years old means that you do not know the modern history of the country, the modern history of Europe, the way society is moving. Of course you'll find them in front of you. Minister, we have 2 October. It was right that your decision to intervene in this misery Mrs Keramos said at the time that it is an individual exit. But one month after that they haven't taken all the masks. We did not criticise you because you made a proper decision. That's right. That's right. We welcomed you too. We criticised you because a month has passed and what you should have done and you must do, which are much harder and more complicated, you have not done. It's that simple. We're not making you a micro-party opposition. To come to the question of the question now. Let's go back to 2015 a little bit. Our government has received a chaotic situation in the public administration targeting the arrest of civil servants with a punishing assessment, with redundancies and with the measure of availability. These were implemented by the then Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis, by the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, and created a particularly explosive mixture within the public. At the same time, Mr. Mitsotakis, on the eve of the 2015 elections, lifted all the heads of ministries, even those who had been placed under objective procedures and placed new heads with direct assignments without any evaluation procedure. The Samara - Venizelou government did this. Our government, SYRIZA, from the start, overturned this toxic climate. It restored to the administration all the unjustly dismissals and abolished the burdensome measures of redundancies and availability. At the same time, SYRIZA has drawn up and largely implemented an integrated national strategy for administrative reform of the country. An important part of this strategy was the implementation of the provisions of Law No.4369/2016 on the selection of public sector leaders. It is noted that the last time public crises had occurred was in 2010 with L.3839/2010, the law of Mr. Ragosi, while there were public bodies that had not committed crises for nearly twenty years. With L.4369/2016, a real revolution took place in the system of selection of heads, according to which the choice is no longer made by the service councils of the past, which was basically a controlled party process by the respective government, but has independent councils with the participation of representatives from the ASP, the Legal Council of the State, the EMCDDA etc., that is, the most institutionally there is in the field of public administration. SYRIZA has chosen consciously, the first time he came to the government of the country, not to place his own children in positions of supervisors, he has established and implemented a system that is absolutely incomprehensible, absolutely worthwhile, absolutely objective. And one's gonna wonder if we did it all right. No, of course not. There were considerable delays on our part, too, the process of selecting heads had to go even faster and in some cases red tape proved to be a very tough opponent and made the reform effort difficult. But the important work that has been done cannot be ignored. Nearly all the directors of the ministries were chosen and a large part of the directors were selected, through the objective procedures that I had before you, while at an advanced stage we handed over the selection procedures of the other directors of the ministries. Unfortunately, since the 'good morning', the New Democracy has completely overthrown the previous government's reform effort and returns the country every day to the worst practices in the past's client state. Crisis have been frozen almost throughout the government. Law 4674/2020 was passed, which exaggerates pre-service in positions of responsibility, wanting a closed hierarchical pyramid and depriving other government officials of any prospect of hierarchical elevation. Of course, you do not apply that law. Place your own children in charge everywhere, with direct placement and without any evaluation process. You are unable to monitor even the changes in organic units that you had brought with the provisions of the ID81 in 2019 and the ID84 of 2019, as the question rightly refers to. The worst part of all is that you have set up a nomination of posted officials in positions of the established administrative hierarchy, even in positions of responsibility. You do it in the Ministry of Immigration, you do it in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, you do it in the Ministry of Digital Governance, you do it in the Presidency of the Government. You have to understand that the state is not a government chip. You should understand that the appointment of posted officials to management posts in the public authorities is a direct violation of constitutional principles, recommends a direct attack on the thousands of worthy civil servants in the country, who are highly qualified and effectively qualified and see various 'clients' taking responsibility. It's obvious your intention to turn public administration into a right-wing paradigm. It also proves Mr. Mitsotakis' past to the Ministry of Administrative Reform. But it proves your achievements too. You broke every record in the number of transfusers, 15 months later, according to official census figures, to two thousand eight hundred ninety-two. What we heard of post-call officials in SYRIZA government! And you, in a year, have ‘exceeded’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You appointed all the legal persons of the public as your party. The cases that have seen the light of publicity, with the managers of hospitals and refugee reception centres, are indicative, but unfortunately they are not the only ones. All of this was accompanied by the adoption of continuous procedures for direct awarding to public contracts, so scandals succeed each other. Within one year you have abolished any concept of democracy, any concept of transparency, any concept of good administration in the public life of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u150	In ten seconds I shall end, Mr President. So I'm summarizing and closing. Stop the logic of direct placements, stop the logic of 'blue children', stop appointing posters in positions of responsibility. Respect the thousands of competent civil servants who now, in the midst of a pandemic, are trying daily in adverse circumstances and with a sense of duty to respond to the difficulties of the period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr Villardos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. The European Union's agreement was a complete failure. Germany again prevailed as it was expected. I will, however, remain on the subject and I will not go into the agreement any further. The question concerns objections of the Change Movement regarding the discriminatory or rather party choice of positions in public administration around the state of New Democracy, with the mastery of loopholes in legislation. Is this something that concerns the Change Movement, the former PASOK of the State Treasury, or does it for his party audience and for the service of own interests? Obviously, it's a rhetorical question. Of course, we do not only care who appoints and how, but whether it really offers, which is not in the question. The same applies to corruption scandals, such as drugs, where it is not only important who has misappropriated public money, but also to their return. The statusal culture of the self-government governments of post-population has proved to be moral, that is, whatever the majority is voting for, therefore, the ruling party, where there are no criminal responsibilities, but only policies which are unravelling with the elections. As far as the legal part of the question is concerned, I would like to say the following. The objections of the Change Movement focus on the draft law entitled "Consolidating the themes of the Ministry of Interior", which proposes changes to the provisions of the Code of Conduct for civil servants and civil servants and legal persons governed by public law, i.e. the Staff Code, while a new evaluation system is established by notices issued after its entry into force. If I am not mistaken, the positions of Heads and Directors have already been paid on the basis of the amended provisions of the Staff Code by Law.4369/2016, while a large number of these Heads of Staff continue to hold positions of responsibility and, of course, they are paid, after direct statements of course made by the respective political administrations of ministries and public agencies as carves to various chosen ones using Article 18 of Law4369/2016 and Article 87 of the Staff Code for the replacement of heads. These positions concern to a large extent the staffing of the famous ‘final’ state that would improve the functioning of the government work, as well as individual positions of responsibility directly linked to the government core that reasonably require people close to the government. However, for example, the government's uncoordinated operation is the Ministry of Finance's notice of the positions of the General Secretariat of Information Systems, which, in the meantime, had been transferred to the Ministry of Digital Policy, and there are many other inconsistencies that are unnecessary to mention, we all know them. In conclusion, the Government, according to the example of the practices followed by SYRIZA, exploits transitional provisions such as Article 18 of Law No.4369/2016, as well as the Staff Code, as it suits it, in order to place individuals as Heads of State, interfering at the top of the administrative hierarchy, even as directors. These convicted methods are considered to be old-fashioned practices that reproduce pathogens attempted by party control over public administration, circumventing the concepts of transparency and merit. Only as a regression or as a stagnation of progress in the institutional organisation of the administrative system of the State, therefore, can they be characterised. On the other hand, however, KINAL, the former PASOK, well-known for how the public works, is historically strong in the trade union, especially in the wider public sector, where it defined situations, while the trade unions moved to the government. Although KINAL lost many voters and officials who went to SYRIZA and New Democracy now, it has a strong trade union sector, at least in the public sector. In the last 37th conference of ADEDY, New Democracy's IAEA took first place with seventy-eight votes and twenty-two seats, while the second one with thirty-three votes and sixteen seats with SYRIZA last. So the PASOK remains, while the power in this trade union area is not proportional to its election presence. We are, of course, the newest party and, anyway, we are abstaining because we are against the interference of the parties in the trade union or local government. Obviously, it also applies to education, from primary to university. But we know very well what is going on in society. Unfortunately, nothing has changed in the political system that bankrupt Greece, despite the three precedents, completely destroying our economy and especially the middle class. Memorandums paid by the taxpayers extremely expensive, but with our country being in a more trivial position than 2010. As far as the final state is concerned, a "Maximum Chancellor" was created at a huge cost, exclusively for the preservation and prestige of power by the New Democracy today, without any interest in anything else. In conclusion, I would like to say that it has not benefited society from anything that the final state has done. Unfortunately, however, if KINAL or SYRIZA were in the position of the New Democracy, the same would have happened, as would the recruitment of today's question. Unfortunately, we all remember the word 'green-sparks', noting that with the same rotten materials and on the same foundations a new structure is never built. Unfortunately, I do not see Mr Kastanidi' s wish being verified as regards the next bankruptcy of the country that this time will have far greater painful consequences, probably also in terms of our territorial sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u153	I shall give the floor to Mrs Bakadima, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. I would, however, like to try to reach agreement on how to continue. I then think that Mrs Lykoulis should take the floor for her denunciation and then the Minister should close the debate. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, will you not give us a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Castanides, we are now talking about tritology for you have talked a total of nine minutes. I have no objection but to agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u156	I will make a full disciple of what you decide to do. Indeed, my initial time was limited by the speech made by Mrs Gennimata and I had to speak for six minutes, but it was said by the then President-in-Office that there would be a tolerance. That was the wording, with a tolerance. If you think tolerance is exhaustion and second year, well. Otherwise, you can give me a little time, so I can get a second. You're judging it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u157	I have no objections. You just need to know that then Mr. Theodorikos will speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u158	If necessary, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u159	Okay. So I'm waiting for you. Mr. Theodorikos will speak and if you tell me you want to speak, then Mr. Theodorikos will speak again. The Minister's closing. In other words, the Minister has a tritology as well as the parliamentary representative of the questionable party. Excuse me, Mrs. Bakadima. I think we have resolved these issues. Mrs Bakadima from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a topical question for twenty KINAL colleagues on the party purposes of the multiple speeds for the crises of Heads of Organic Units of the New Democrat State. So what does PASOK blame New Democracy for? He blames her for partying the public sector. Honestly, do you want to tell me, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, that this is your practical intimacy? Haven't you ever been "successful" the public, like the "Don't mention" now New Democracy? Because we all live in the same country, in the same country we've lived, and we all know, and we've seen what's happened. Unless you have deleted your earlier life and actions along with the name change. Why you cannot invoke and convince neither us nor the citizens who are listening to us that you know nothing about the murder and fall out of the clouds, because the New Democracy places its own executives in management positions. You also referred earlier to the posters of the New Democracy. Really - Is it a rhetorical question rather, as I know the answer - would you like or would it help you if we looked at the qualifications of poster officials who have served all these years close to top ministers in the PASOK government? Are we going to find or won't we find examples of an HR partner in poster posts? Believe me, I could refer to names, but at this stage I will not. You know, though, very well that I'm right and it would be nice not to hide behind our finger or move it in New Democracy. However, no one, of course, justifies the New Democracy's practice of the army of transmigrants it has created and its out-of-procedure positions. It is, however, the least hypocritical the charge comes from your own lips. Of course, you cannot overlook how you created the AAP. But let us not be objective, nor does the New Democracy reject it. It is also a question of changing the level of placement now. Back then, the attempt was to place a friendly attendant or a voter on a job. Now we're up level. The aim is to effectively control the state, the services, so that they do not hinder the exercise of government choices. Of course, here to be fair and to render "Caesar's Caesar's Caesar's Caesaree" the first instructors of this way of partisan flexicurity, "modern", are no more than modernists. Let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen. In the Memorandum of Greece the state is salted by the troika. Public directors are invited to carry out daily contracts for divestment, degradation, dismantling in everything that has to do with the public itself, whether this is good, service or provision. In this light, it is very reasonable for all, but all, the Memorandum governments to follow up the modernistic stumbling block, and even to the fullest extent, because there is no public career employee who would sign such ragings. The question highlights the fact that the New Democracy makes discriminating use of the Staff Code and the legislation, and cases where notices to fill managerial organic positions are ignored and transitional provisions are applied for supplementation. In fact, KINAAL accuses the Government of not completing the procedures for permanent staffing from existing staff, but chooses to freeze them and use provisions in order to serve as its chosen posts. I won't argue with you, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL. Indeed, the months in which excellence and the state of New Democracy are governed and what we have not seen! Multiple cases of "blue" defects in key positions, staff unable to elect MPs to place general secretaries, governors, deputy governors in nursing institutions, praisers of the black seven-year period, nazis to take the place of refugees' structures. At the same time, we saw directly awarded masks to amotoriser companies, direct mask assignments to seasonal companies, as well as the establishment of personal interview - and, indeed, with a huge modulation - for positions of responsibility, which has undermined objective and academic skills. We also saw mistakes in schools' masks, as it turns out that the second batch has been incorrectly dimensioned. We had complaints about mayors who asked citizens for a certificate of social and political views to be recruited to the municipality, as well as cases of phone redundancies in municipalities with "blue" origin of the mayor. The list is really inexhaustible. Unfortunately, the New Democracy, following the stalk, is trying to have full control of the state so that high-ranking executives, which it itself will have placed, are not able to apply the government's choices to an unreasonably high level. Unfortunately, it seems that excellence and the "final" state were a pretext and a smokescreen. However, it does not cease to be hypocrisy by all the parties of the Memorandum Arc, the parties that have brought it, and then have obediently implemented the memorials to move one to another, especially when for ten years there has been a single party, the party of austerity, divestment, privatisation, the Memorandum Party, which governs each other with a little different colour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Mrs. Lykouley has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. The dear spokesman of the New Democracy, the Parliamentary Representative, whom I personally appreciate, Mr Bugas, and the glove, threw away the glove. You told me that the question was not up-to-date or is not in line with the timeliness, because we are talking about things that were done months ago and we are repeated tiringly. We tiresomely do not repeat ourselves. You are stubbornly continuing to do what you have done since the first month of your governance. That's the truth. So to prove to you the truth and to see that the glove did not lift it down, I tell you that in the Senate room, where they are looking for the Minister, because we are keeping him down here - it is the State Secretary there - we are discussing this very continuity. We discuss the continuity of your doctrine. Today, then, we have a bill there, which we are discussing again how you manage public administration. Imagine, you are now coming to have the choices of public administration managers that you are asking for a degree, abolishing the extra qualifications. You are putting five years of work experience in the public or private sectors, without, at the same time, having to deal with the subject for which you will be recruited as director of the institution - listen - listen! - and, of course, no preconditions for how you can secure the lassas. I'm going to set an example. Maybe someone's been in a pharmaceutical company for five years. The next day you can make him president at the EOF - we say now - the way you bring it? That's what you're doing now! At the Senate Hall you're doing what you told us we're not even up-to-date! In order to be able to find an end to what we are discussing and to conclude at least the truth, I also saw the Greek Solution's proposition, but the Mera25 also speak about PASOK and the Change Movement and that you do not think that because it changed the name, it legalizes you and so on. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, things are crystal clear. The institutional issue that arises in the public administration, PASOK and the Change Movement served it and served it with faith and self-determination and with institutional values that it held from the beginning to the end. What was the component of the component and they didn't manage to find them and they were separate formations, that's your story, you'll find them among you. However, as far as we are concerned historically at least, this institutional burden we have, the guarantor, will keep it to the end. So we're telling you that this thing can't go on. We see that you are obsessed with public administration and, unfortunately, you are not taking into account questions which we have tabled and which are detailed, Minister. For the president of the National Public Administration Centre we have tabled a question with specific complaints that were not ours, they were people who cooperated with him, officials. Not only do you do nothing about it, but you are putting the President of the National Civil Service Centre on a committee, without making any comment, no more control. Also, what I want to point out is that we systematically see in the field of public administration deceiving the graduates, the members of the National School of Public Administration, who unfortunately, while having knowledge of administrative science, public accounting, human resources management in the public sector, not only do you prefer them, but you are looking at easy ways to get them off the ground. What we have to agree between us is that public administration cannot continue to operate in this way. He's not beneficial. And, of course, you cannot top this, such as creating poster administrations, creating the army, as colleagues have said, and so on - and now, at the offices and departments of the government's presidency, they can lead poster staff! You've really clipped it completely! [[At the point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings]] And I shall end, Mr President. I will only say that phrase. Minister, on the other hand, we have no obsession with the posters, but do you know what's going on? In our view, the poster is not just an additional financial cost. The problem that they create in public administration is much greater, especially as they disrupt the administrative hierarchy, create a protection zone around the Minister himself. They become public officials at the post of public officials, they isolate worthy members of public administration, they are neglected and deceived people who may be very useful to you, to your government, to each government, but most importantly they are useful to the place and to the citizens. So this is our different concept of things. That is why we are coming back to issues which are of great importance, but unfortunately I do not see any light at the bottom of the tunnel. And today one of the same things you have brought us and we will come back to demand what we have said, the institutional guarantee of the proper functioning of the public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. Mr. Castanides, would you like to speak now or after the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u164	After the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u165	After the Minister. You're the two of you who have teratology, and that's why I'm asking you if you want to talk now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. As you have referred to what is happening, Madam President, in the Senate Hall, I sincerely hope that you will change your attitude to the issue of the great reform that is being carried out in the way of naturalization of foreigners. I hope that the Qualification will do the same, because after the debate that we had in committee, I think you should go a little beyond your opposition and contribute positively. I do not just mention it because it is at the same time a debate. I believe that the entire Greek society also knows this side of the maliciousness of our state. He knows that, unfortunately, naturalisation as a Greek foreign citizen passes through huge time delays, passes through injustices, passes through lack of objectivity, passes through opaque situations, in which we end with a reform, with a system that turns the process into a fair, objective, rapid naturalization for those who really deserve it and who prove through written examinations that they really know the Greek language, respect our country, know our history, know our political institutions and therefore deserve to be Greek and prove this. I hope even in this, God will show you help. It is because in all the rest of the things I have told you, I understand that you do not find a field of interest. You insist on your caregiver strategy. It's your right. I understand that the parties have their existential needs and existential struggles, but I believe that at some point we should look ahead. And the period we're going through is that. You will also allow me to tell you about a point you mentioned earlier and concern temporary staff. You said we had temporary staff a hundred and twenty thousand in June. I would like to tell you that we are the ones who are refreshing them properly. Now we have already passed the end of August and very quickly the end of September. The picture I have is that the number of this staff is ninety-five thousand four hundred fifty-two, including all categories of public and private legal persons. It does not seem to me anywhere that there is a particular condition to be a certain number. That is what this particular element is about. With regard to the other issues that have been discussed, I honestly see no point in having on the central political option that this government is implementing. Our choice is to dismantle the state mechanism. A problematic option in this area is the selection and placement of secretaries. I haven't heard you say anything about it. It is now a reality, ladies and gentlemen. They operate within the public administration with a particular role, in particular, in a very strong and substantial way. I'd expect something more specific about that. Our choice is to modernise, digitize and upgrade the ASAP. Also, I do not see anything in this area to have a counter-proposal. Our choice is a new recruitment system, which will make it easier for the right man to be in the right place, it will make it easier to act. I believe it was your declaration too and should have been in the mood to help. I also waited and expect you to help in the field of multi-level governance and in the formation of a new landscape with much stronger self-government, as I have already explained. Instead, what did you do? This concerns, in particular, the representative of Officerial Responsibility. I'm sorry Mr. Zachariadis isn't here. It may be in the discussion of the draft law. But you did it yourself in the Change Movement. Mud and slander against everything. Mr. Zachariadis did it against the Prime Minister. Perhaps he has a relevant communication directive, perhaps his art to do black - white has been the basic criterion by which the Chief of Officerial Response has placed him in the position he has placed. He attacked and said things about today's Prime Minister and the period when Mr Mitsotakis was Minister of Administrative Reform in the then 2014 government, things that do not respond to reality. First of all, the Prime Minister, as the Minister responsible at that time, has made the country's Memorandum promises. I have a question after all these years. Is there any political force in this Chamber, which while the country had these obligations, felt that it could be avoided? To avoid catching up, Mr Kastanides, the debate, who led the country to this memorandum and to these commitments. So I don't want to catch this conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u167	You were saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u168	If you want to catch her, I have no difficulty. Your idol, Mr. Papandreou, took the country three hundred miles an hour to the memorandum, for he refused to see reality. Refused. And you look like you can't even now, ten years later, make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u169	You don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u170	It was a time when the revolvers were on the table and Greece went with great speed to sanctuary. That's the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u171	Did you say that to the Europeans who say other things in their reports?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Castanides, you'll have the floor shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u174	You are a professional politician, I am not, but I have the right to speak in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u175	You're a professional...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u176	I repeat, sir, I come from society, I have thirty-six years of age, I am not a professional MP and Minister. And I have not made the Minister of several and many governments. I encamped with Kyriakos Mitsotakis in an assumption overcoming the classic left-wing lines. Because that is the spirit of the times, because this is how the unity of the citizens becomes and the country can go forward. And respect it! There has also been criticism of my fellow Members with designations, which I ask you to withdraw. Every man, every member of the government, participates in the government and operates in a coordinated, organised manner and implements a policy which is a policy for all of us. There is an overall political direction, which we are all implementing together. I'm sorry, there are areas of state where different procedures were needed in practice. For example, we now have a considerable number of bus drivers to hire. We now need them, in order to be able to transport the public, with the actions designed by the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, to have more buses - so we need more drivers - so that people are not stacked and conditions of proliferation are not created. Do you want us to do three years to get them through the familiar procedures? When we needed border guards at the border, to guard the attacks that we received from the Turks, with the work of people, migrants who were treated decisively by this government, by the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the Ministry of National Defence in winter, did you want them to wait for us to take them three years? The same is certainly true of doctors, who in any case obey different laws and regulations, but also of a number of other cases. All of you in your propaganda form it and you call it the State of Right, the client state. It's not like that, gentlemen. It is a response to society's needs, to urgent cases for which we need to do what we need to respond. Make crosses, look forward, acknowledge that the country is moving forward together and with reforms and don't stay back in the defense of party miniatures, because they don't concern anyone else except you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Castanides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u178	The most likely is that I would not take the floor, Mr President, because it was absolutely indifferent to what the Minister said. But I asked for the floor, because it made two historical and personal inconsistencies. He said that the PASOK - Papandreou government led the country to the memorials and therefore bankruptcy, and he also said that he was entitled to speak, because I am a professional politician and I am not entitled - so - to speak. I wish to answer both of them. Mr Theodorikos is obviously ignoring, not what the Greek political parties say, but third parties who have been following the evolution of the country's budgetary tragedy, such as the European Parliament. In 2013, the European Parliament, following complaints from the countries under the surveillance of the troika, decided to set up a cross-party committee to check what has happened in the period prior to the recourse to the support mechanism of the four countries, what happened with the budgetary tragedy of those countries. In 2014 - I assume that Mr Theodorikos knows, but his faith in the truth is such that he forgets it - the European Parliament has adopted an almost unanimous decision of all its political wings, from the left to the Christian Democrats. The European Parliament's report describes the darkest colours. It is a fist in the eyes of the reader literally, how the period 2004-2009 was, as far as Greece is concerned, a classic period of irresponsibility, which led to its budget derailment and ultimately to its almost formal bankruptcy. In fact, Mr President, the report by the European Parliament uses the words that in order to hide the real elements of the country's budgetary tragedy, the government at that time used the words of Mr Theodorikos' predecessors in the statistics. Finally, we have been through a period of serious and serious crisis. The Greek people paid a heavy price. We have to tell the Greek people the truth at some point, instead of lying. And finally, I wonder, Minister, are you addressing a man and telling him that he has no right to speak because he is a professional politician? Do you call me a "professional politician", while you are not a professional politician? I don't know if you're a professional politician. I know you have a great skill in changing your political directions, from the secretariat of the Communist Left to the Right, which you are serving today. I am currently serving the same space and at very great personal costs that professional politicians never have. Have you seen political professionals resigning from the position of Minister of Transport on transparency issues, in conflict with the Prime Minister? Have you seen professional politicians staying at the political barren border, excluded even from their party? Have you seen professional politicians disagree with the memorandum and deleted from their party? Have you seen professional politicians who systemically refuse to protect their position? Do you dare address me and talk about a professional politician? I will end with an impulse: Minister, take care of what you say. Because if your contribution is to overcome the separation of the Left - Right through the service in the Mitsotakis Government, then I must tell you that you do not know, from your old readings, what Sandal Moff says: "The Republic is not a field of neutral consensus so that we can overcome the differences in the Right - Left. It is the fertile field of the evacuation of rival social and political strategies." You could therefore serve democracy by being a little more stable in your positions. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Theodorikos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u180	I won't need them for six minutes, Mr. President. You know that I practice rhetoric in Parliament on the basis of my Laconian origin. And I do this for too many reasons. Mr. Castanides, I want to be very clear to you. I remember people in this Chamber from the time I was a little kid. Hence the designation 'professional politician'. I want to be clear. And obviously, anyone in this Chamber has an absolute right to speak. Because you have made personal reference to my face, I want to tell you something: I believe, I believe and will believe in three basic values in my life, in freedom, in solidarity and in patriotism, in the love I have for my country. Too many people in the years of Postmopolitanism have shaped their political behaviors in the context of their families. Freedom leads people to be able to overcome and always judge what is right and what is wrong. My course, therefore, is not the course of a professional politician, because it is simply the first time in my life that I have been a candidate for parliamentarians - the Prime Minister has given me the honour of including me in the New Democracy State Vote - and the Minister is now. I have never been a candidate for parliamentarian anywhere, nor have I exercised state power nor am I the Minister of another at any time. I worked on a case at a very difficult time for the country, because I believed in the plan, vision and abilities of Mr. Mitsotakis. I helped his election - as far as I was concerned - in the leadership of the New Democracy, in the Prime Minister of the country, and I serve this party and my country as an Interior Minister for as long as this is useful in the country and is useful in this government and this party. The rest you said keep them for yourself and for any other use. However, on the substance of the matter of the Ministry of Interior it is better to look ahead, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, because this government is implementing reforms and it is better to put yourself in place with those who go ahead with changes and reforms rather than those who keep the place back in maintenance. Now, in this fabulous conversation about the memorandum, Mr Kastanides, let us not catch it down. To give you just one example: I remember the years of the government of Kostas Karamanlis - I will speak to you about something that I think today is well-known - the port of Piraeus was to be privatised. Today there is no one who opposes the privatisation of ports. No one talks about the port of Piraeus or the port of Thessaloniki. New Democracy was alone against everyone else. You remember the story, you remember what happened. A little self-criticism, a little more thought! This fact - we must all admit it - has been confirmed for its basic choices regarding the country's progress in the European Union and the primary role that the private economy plays in progress and the economy as a whole, along with democracy. A little more honesty and a little more straightforward contemplation of the past would help everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u181	Do you know the so-called 'field transfer', Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u182	Whatever you want, I can sit here and discuss it with you for as long as you want, Mr. Castanides...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u183	Yeah, but there are certain...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u184	At the moment I have no difficulty, I just have to go and do some other job at the Ministry. I know that way, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Kastanides, there are specific procedures. The House has the right to say "general debate about how we got to the memorandum", so we will have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u186	It would be very useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 16/26-2-2020 topical question by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement of Change to the Minister of the Interior is adjourned, on the party purposes served by the multiple speeds for the crises of senior organic units in the 'final' state of New Democracy. In accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions of the Regions of 25 September 2020 (CBCBC), the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Regions of the Regions of the Regions of the Regions of the Regions, the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Regions, the Committee of the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Regions, the Regions, the Regions and the Regions and the Regions, the Regions, the European Economic and the European Economic and the European Economic and the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and the Regions Committee of the Regions, the Committee of 15thor, the Committee of 15th opportunity and the Economic and the Economic and the Committee of the Regions on the Committee of the Regions on the Committee of 15th opportunity and the Committee of 15th opportunity and the Regions on the Regions on the Regions (C Committee of 25 September 20th opportunity/European Committee of 25 September 2020/European Committee of 25 September 2020/European Committee of 25 September 2020 20 September 2020 20 September 2020 20 September 2020 20 September 2020/European Committee of 25 September 2020, Committee of 15 September 2020'/European Committee of 15 September 2020' (CEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEUEU: European Union (SEU: European Union (S
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u188	The requested authorisation was granted. The end of the proceedings of the First Session of the IH Period of the President-in-Office of Parliament is hereby declared. The relevant Presidential Decree will be published in the Official Journal of the Government and will be tampered with. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-02-S1-commons.u189	The sitting for Monday, October 5, 2020, at 11.00pm, on the subject of the House's work: Announcement of the Presidential Decree to close the proceedings of the First Session and sanctification of the opening of the work of the Second Session by the Last Archbishop of Athens and of Greece Mr. Hieronymou and the members of the Continuous Sacred Session, according to the special agenda distributed.
