ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 5-5-2020 authorization, the PLB minutes of its meeting, of Tuesday 5 May 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin with the topical questions scheduled for today, let me first announce the topical and urgent question report on Friday 8 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The course of the procedures for the construction of the new Judge in Edessa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Indirect redundancies in ELTA and TRAINOSE in the midst of a COVID-19 coronary pandemic." 3. The question by No 654/4-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for workers in Theama - Akroama". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "System system of rotation of work Article 38 n. The Commission's proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations is based on Article 9 of Directive 1892/1990 and Article 9 of the Act of 20-3-2020 of the Legislative Act of 20 March 1990.' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 659/4-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The workers and owners of the Quartet Centres for Lifelong Learning (CICs) are invited to pay the broken ones." 3. The Question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "The Workers in Tourism". 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Intensive recognition of the work of the people of the front line to deal with pandemic and the safeguarding of health and safety conditions at work." Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the topical and urgent questions of today's issue. In his letter, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the fourth question under number 652-4-2020 is the first time that the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has asked the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let the government-EU co-operation be stopped now. - industrialists at the expense of small vineyard growers and cotton growers', will not be discussed after the Minister's consultation with the MP. So we begin with the third debate under No 645/28-4-2020 on the first-round question from the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgiou Kaminis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Home/sale masks'. Mr. Kamine, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister, the gradual lifting of traffic restrictions has already begun and the first companies have begun to open up. There are some restrictions imposed on certain categories of companies where the mask is compulsory: in public transport and taxi, for workers in food shops and supermarkets operating non-standard food, hospitals, medical establishments, diagnostic centres, hairdressing and aesthetic centres. The fines vary: 300 euros in hospitals, medical and diagnostic centres, 150 euros in taxi drivers and passengers, 1,000 euros in hairdressing. With a simple search on the internet you can see that right now the price of the simple masks ranges from 0,70 euros to 2 euros the piece. These were the prices that I mentioned when I formulated the question. Now the prices have risen. A crisis or simple-use mask was priced 10 cents of the euro. As soon as the mask is a necessary and compulsory instrument, and once such a high level of fines are provided, would you intend to take some intervention measures? Are you even considering the last measure of valuation? Those were the questions I asked in my question. If you have the kindness and you can report to the Observatory for which you told us that it would start to work on 15 March and tell us what stock in masks is currently in place. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u5	First of all, Mr. Comrade, Christ Anestis! Thank you very much for the question, because it gives us the opportunity to talk a little bit about evidence and to clarify a few things on a subject which concerns public opinion and is reasonably concerned about it. First and foremost, the same debate on valuation, stocks and so on, took place again a month and a half ago on antiseptics. I would remind you of the situation then when the pandemic that the whole world wanted to take antiseptics broke out. Domestic antiseptic production at the start of the crisis was under two hundred thousand pieces a day. As a result of this, very quickly there have been great shortages on the market, we have had to put a cap on at the beginning, three and then two pieces per customer per supermarket, and the opposition has asked for valuation through the relevant sectoral director, Mr Pappa. I argued in this House in a debate of time-consuming questions a month and a half ago that we will not give consideration to the fact that the valuation would lead to shortages on the market and, ultimately, to an increase in prices rather than a reduction. Because where this instrument was applied, if you put the price on the upper limit of valuation, of course the black market also begins. On the contrary, I said that if we work properly and properly, and domestic production we will increase, and so we will have sufficient time and time for importers to make massive imports and let the market function. What's the status of a month and a half later in antiseptics? We have full competence. The two wall has already become three pieces per client, and soon we will do four pieces per client, because there have to be antiseptics everywhere, and the price of antiseptics has fallen rapidly. And so this conversation in the media has stopped, where I am no longer asked about antiseptics at any interview. Because no one deals with antiseptics anymore, because adequacy has led to a price reduction, and everything is moving smoothly. The exact same model is followed in the case of the mask. The domestic production of antiseptics was under two hundred thousand pieces a day at the start of the crisis and today it has reached over 300 thousand pieces a day, with the interventions made by the government and thanks to an amendment which the parties unanimously voted in Parliament and I thank them. Domestic production therefore now covers almost daily demand and plus imports, adequacy is complete. Let's go to the masks now. In the masks we had almost zero production. It wasn't Greece's masquerading country. In fact, the government has in the same way encouraged entrepreneurs who have shown interest in investing in mask production, and today that we are talking about the monthly production of masks a day is about twenty-five million masks - I always talk about one-use masks - with a view, on the basis of the investments that have been made, to exceed forty million masks in about two months from today. So domestic production has increased significantly. Are these domestic production figures enough to cover the entire demand? If the rules are respected, as the experts have said, we also use disposable masks, yes. Just to understand the size class, I will tell you that we would need three single-use masks a day for eleven million, thirty-three million masks a day, one billion masks a month, or twelve billion masks a year. So this can't be done. We will therefore reasonably go to one-use masks which are indeed the ones called for and to multi-purpose masks under the health rules as laid down. Now, two remarks to close. The first in terms of prices you said. It's not the price you said today. On the contrary, once again our faith in market rules is justified. The values of the mask, Mr. Kamin, are falling. They're not coming up. I have the official figures today - and I submit them to the House - by the Secretariat-General for Consumers. I will not say the names of the supermarket chains, because if I say them to the House, they will tell me that I am making advertising and we have various 'driving's of the seriousness they react with such a thing in Greece and I do not want to give them a new opportunity to surpass the Internet. I will only tell you that in the first chain that I was informed by the General Secretariat of Consumers today, prices range from EUR 0.59 to EUR 0.63. In the second big chain and well known, from EUR 0,27 the piece up to EUR 0.42 and the third, very well known, from EUR 0,56 to EUR 0,58. For the truth, in order not to say this in the air, I will put forward - and again I will not say the names of the companies, you will forgive me, but you can get them from Practus EUR-0,60, EUR 0,58 - all these are today-0,66 - this is the second time - EUR 0,56 - these are different shops and chains EUR-0,58. I put it in the Minutes that Mr Kamine also has them to see the prices that he did when he asked were EUR 0.70, now they have fallen below EUR 0.60, in a chain of less than EUR 0.50 and the price follows a downward trend. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To understand the difference with the valuation - I'm sorry, I didn't print it, but I've kept it on my cell to read it to you - the official briefing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the country that has placed valuations for France - one of the countries - as the Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance announced, the sale of protection masks to the general public will start trialing, etc. and continues: ‘The prices will be in France at EUR 2 to EUR 3 for multiple-purpose textile masks, whereas for disposable surgical masks a maximum price was set’, i.e. ‘EUR 0,95’. That is to say, the country that has put into consideration - France - today has a value of EUR 0.95. You go to a chain now - which I will not tell you again - will get EUR 0.42. Now, seriously, are we talking about going to priced EUR 0.95? Because if we put at 0,42 what are we at risk? To stop imports, to stay masked and to start the price up again. I know that this is difficult to hear from some - not you, I refer to other wings, which, with the free market, have great ideological issues. However, I can assure you that the free market is working in this case too. I will make two remarks and close immediately. The price increase is justified by the EUR 0.10, because when comparing the price to EUR 0.10, the mask was a product that anyone who wanted to take it sour and when. Today the mask is the first product in demand on the planet. To understand, the basic raw material of the surgical mask - this plast, what it is called - went from 5,000 euros to February at 116,000 euros a tone. If you calculate the difference in raw material, you will understand that it is indeed justified and the price rise, because unfortunately this pandemic has led to this. But most importantly - to close, because I would like to give you the opportunity to place you too - is this. In the context of the government effort to increase domestic mask production, a company in Larissa, Larissa, has invested with its own money and we have helped to quickly import the machines from China - that is the help that the government has given - to make production faster. In other words, production should not start in July and production should begin in April. When this became known, various publications, vulgar, from the well-known newspapers of SYRIZA, mainly the "DOCUMENTO" and the other garbage, which resulted in targeting the owner of the company, Mr. Daveli, who was attacked yesterday at his home by anarchist collectives. In other words, a businessman who puts his own money and produces masks must listen to the trash of so-called journalism - because it is not journalism - tells him that Mitsotakis decided to impose the mask to sell masks to his friend in Larissa. At a time when the mask, Mr. Kamine, as you well know, is recommended by the doctors of the planet, unless Mitsotakis can control the planet! So on behalf of the Government, Mr President, I would like to express my earnest condemnation of this attack on Mr Daveli's family and on Mr Daveli's operations. To apologise on behalf of the government to every Greek businessman, who at these difficult times of crisis puts back on and while putting back to find cheap masks for the Greek consumer and to be able to protect his health, he must tolerate the trash of journalism and then accept the attack on his home. You must condemn, too, Mr. Kamine, this disgusting and masculine attack on a family, with little children in it, because someone wanted it, and I don't know who else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr. Kamines has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u7	How much time did you say I had, Mr President? Three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u8	I'll leave you some more time. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u10	Please! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u11	Good. You know very well that I am not an enemy of the private initiative, and I think it is very important - and good for the government - that the businessman from Larissa has helped quickly to introduce the machinery. In my question, as I have said, this is not the only way to intervene on the market. I was saying 'the last instrument'. In France, they have imposed a price which, as you said, reaches 0.90 euros, but of course in an economy where the world's incomes are much higher than ours. But I am not confined to consideration alone. There are countries with free economies, such as Austria, for example, where the state distributes free masks outside the supermarkets. In Belgium and France, free masks are redistributed outside the metro. You helped - and you did well, I said - the businessman to import these machines. Doesn't he owe anything in return from the help he got from the state? Could the state not, for example, buy from it a part of its production and make it available for free in cases where vulnerable groups exist? The Prime Minister said we're living a war with an invisible enemy. I know that in the wars the state's intervention is always made strong. Always! That's what we call a war economy. I am not saying to reach the level of intervention that the states have achieved in the two world wars, but, at any rate, as long as you, Mr Georgiades, expect the free market to function, some people are losing their lives and others are weak and yet no one is able to tell us genuinely, with sufficient and reliable, what consequences the disease will have for the body which has been ill. So, before the market works, we should think about some interventions. However, when you on 22 April said that within two to three weeks the mask would be normalized. The mask market so far has been priced - when you find it 1 euro in pharmacies, as I did the other day, when I did a sample check - has not been normalized. What small, medium-sized enterprise, who is obliged to supply its workers with masks, can wither such a burden for a long time? Have you done any checks? Have you imposed sanctions in cases of fierce speculation? What do you intend to do in these circumstances? Have you read the news post the other day about public bodies, hospitals, universities, local government agencies, who have bought the same masks with a horrendous price deviation? There's such a waste of money! This is being denounced. Did you go after that horrific ruckus? Do you intend to come after her? I'd seen that conversation you had with Mr. Pappa at the time about antiseptics. You said you weren't chasing the profit right - but you're chasing it out in the ravine. Have you checked on the masks? Have you enforced sanctions? I will stop here, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u13	I'm just going to the last question. The answer is: "We've done checks, we're doing checks. We have imposed sanctions and we impose sanctions." These are for the last questions, but I'm going to be a little more specific to understand it. Indeed, in the midst of the crisis with the act of legislation, the first we have adopted, we have introduced the maximum percentage of profits for all health materials, which is what is necessary to protect the health of the population, at what point? At the rate of profit that these companies had on 1 February 2020. So, what did we say? You introduced a mask, you introduced an antiseptic before the crisis, you had a ‘x’ profit rate with that, so the profit rate you have to keep working in the middle of the crisis. If you are going to increase it - and depending on the growth you are going to make, that is to say, take advantage of the very high demand that creates the health measures that the population has to follow - I give you a fine. It's not a very liberal measure. I want to be honest. But we had to take it because of the exceptional circumstances you described. And we made fines. How many fines? Over two and a half million so far. As you know, every week we draw up a control report from the General Secretariat of the Consumers. We've done four and a half thousand checks since 15 March and we've put over two and a half million, in fact, fines for companies, for antiseptics, masks, fuels and other products we've put into this monitoring system. So what you're saying is done. Now, you're telling me you found the mask in a pharmacy of 1 euro. I brought you the information today - this morning the Consumer Secretariat sent it to me. You can go a door side by side to the supermarket I told you about, and get it 0.42 euros. Now, if you want to take her with 1 euro, what can I do to you? Take her with 1 euro. I give you the opportunity to buy it with 0.42 euros. I don't expect the market to work. The market's working, I told you. When the valuation in France is EUR 0.95 and here I mentioned a hundred different supermarkets selling masks from EUR 0.60 to EUR 0.40, so the market is already working, that's what I told you. On the contrary, not only have we not been indifferent, but as you know, we have created the 'e-consumer' app, which gives me the opportunity to advertise it once again. You can download the application on your mobile phone, we have put the masks as one of the products watched by the "e-consumer", press the button on your mobile "I want to take a mask" and automatically search the area you are and tells you where the cheapest mask is. You don't even have to look. He's taking you to the cheapest price. I say it so you don't go blindly. We have built an electronic tool to help people save their money. Now we're going to the extra tool you asked me about. We have built the electronic base again in the crisis, in record time, the General Secretariat of Consumers, where we record stocks. The first day we recorded - to understand the difference - we had a million masks in Greece. Anyone who does not declare and catch him in stocks, which have not been declared in the database, confiscates what has not been declared. And they've already been confiscated enough. The first day, then, we had a million. Yesterday we had twenty-six million. What's that supposed to mean? Again, that's what the market will say. Imports have also been made and production is therefore increasing stocks. And because stocks are growing and demand begins and the price falls. And I tell you that the trend of the market in disposable masks is to drop the price, not to climb, as you said. Now, regarding the subject of sharing free masks, there's another very big communication spec. Indeed, a few days ago, the honourable Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mr Papadimoulis, had taken up a tweet and showed a municipality in France that was giving free masks. And he said, "Scrumb! In France, the municipality is sharing free masks. In Greece what does the government do?' And I added below the Municipality of Argyroupoli - Greek that shares free masks. And I say to him: "Why are you looking in France for this municipality and not looking in Attica, the Municipality of Argyroupoli - a Greek that shares masks?"! We are not going to make any difference because I told you that no state can share disposable masks throughout its population, because the numbers are infinite. So it can't be. States can go on a case-by-case basis and give masks where they really need to. Greece does the same and it will do it more if it needs the answer. But today we are talking seriously and frankly, neither is there any shortage of masks nor excessive prices exist, in relation to the world market and the international price of the mask always. It won't be 0.10 as it was before the crisis. There most likely is that we will not be able to reach it, because I repeat that the mask has become a world product of very high consumption, but we will remain at very reasonable prices. So, concentrating, prices drop, adequacy has been ensured, controls are done, stocks are recorded, electronic application on the mobile phone we made so that everyone can easily find the cheapest mask near his area. Now, as far as the companies are concerned, I would like to tell you that Macedonian-Thracy Plastics company, that is, the other company that produces masks in Greece, has already announced that it is giving 50% of its daily production and shares free masks throughout Macedonia and Thrace and has also given the government to share both hospitals and elsewhere free of charge, in the way you said. Only as a humor take the government to buy from the "LARIPLAST" masks and share. Vaxebanes chased us because we were able to bring the machines faster than China, as if it were not, Mr President, within the powers of a state to help a business and speed up procedures. Should we go buy masks? Paulis doesn't launder us. So we're really going back. All the measures that can be taken to protect the health of the Greek citizen have been taken. We're going well, it's not a nagging time, it's a time for national unity, so we can get over the problems. Thank you, because I understand that you are condemning the attack on Mr Daveli's house and all that has happened. You didn't expressly say that, but that's what I understood. Your story is convinced that you condemn, there is no discussion. Alas, I'm not talking about it. Because, in fact, we will become a jungle, I repeat for the third time, with these trashes which, unfortunately, have been born in Greece at the time of the crisis, began the era of the first antimony and reaped and continue until now, with mud, with slander, with slander, with slander and all the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you both very much. Of course we all condemn it when there were small children in it. In any case, Mr Georgiadis, I bought a mask at EUR 1,95 on Monday at Eleftherios Venizelos airport's pharmacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u15	One use?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u16	One use, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u17	You want me to tell you the supermarket where you have to go? If you want, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u18	No, no. I'll now look at my cell phone what's around the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I did not say that you would not find a higher price. I said that we have ensured that there is a lower price. If you don't want to look and want to get the most expensive, because she had the most beautiful thing, take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u20	After the suffering I'll be looking for. I was at the airport, I told you. We continue with the first with number 651/3-5-2020 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Kelles - which I am very happy to see again in the headquarters - to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Remuneration of farmers affected by bluetongue in 2014". Mr. Kelles, you have two minutes at your disposal, see if you're in shape!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone and Christ Reverend!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u22	Bless the Lord!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u23	Minister, in July 2014 the amnophils of the Tyrnavo region - but also the cattle - were affected by blue fever and not only by the Larissa Prefecture, the Municipality of Tirnavos, but this happened in thirty three counties throughout Greece. I am simply referring, for example, to the Municipality of Tirnavos. The livestock farmers stored the dead animals in special refrigerators until 2016 and after a long-term inertia of the Ministry, an order came from the Directorate-General for Sustainable Animal Production and Veterinary of the Ministry of Rural Development to destroy the relevant samples. Since then, since 2015 the SYRIZA government has been taking over, despite repeated nuisances, protests and demand for farmers to be paid, the SYRIZA government has been indifferent for four and a half years. And this indifference in June 2015 turned into a mockery. On the eve of the European elections in 2019, the responsible Minister for Rural Development of SYRIZA promised them that it would bring appropriate legislation to the House in order to get what they were entitled to. This, of course, never happened. Obviously for electoral reasons, and this indifference turned into a mercenary in the autumn of 2019, when the New Democracy and you, Minister for Rural Development were now government, came and tabled an amendment to the House to get the money from farmers since 2014. What money? What he did not give for five years as a government. That's why I'm saying it's a humiliation. In your presence this year, Minister, in Larissa, at the end of January 2020, in a development forum organized by the newspaper "ELLERIA" with the Region of Thessaly, you promised the farmers that you would give them the money they are entitled to, because the government really attaches great importance to the primary sector and wants to strengthen this class of farmers and farmers. We have arrived in May, Minister. He shared the issue of pandemic and farmers have not yet received their money. To tell you the truth, the farmers don't want money. They want to restore their livestock. For six years, since 2014, they have lost their livestock, lost the money they would produce over the years, lost subsidies from OPEKEPE and still have not received the compensation, on the basis of the joint ministerial decision adopted in 2014, which predicted what was envisaged. I want to ask you when they're finally gonna get this money, if they're gonna get it, so they know what's going on with them. I will continue with a similar subject, because where poor and his fate! The farmers, you know very well, that they're waiting for Easter to get something out of the damage. This year, then, Easter because of the world's pandemic, the price of the lambs ranged at low prices, sold their lambs around 3,80 euros to 4 pounds per kilo, compared to the previous year that they had sold around 5,5 euros per kilo. They are therefore reasonably seeking compensation. I have to say that the prices of amnocorporates for the Great Week, and especially for the last few days, have ranged at high levels. It reached 10 and 12 euros a kilo, but without a single cent of it going to farmers. The Ministry, of course, did a good job. Of course, he did very serious checks, of course, and we did not have any imports this year, but at the same time we did not have exports because of the pandemic and in Italy, which was the main country to receive the largest quantities of amnocrifices. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, whether they will receive compensation in the context of the Easter pandemic and when will they be paid for bluetongue? It's what people deserve and they don't want anything more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr. Vorides, many years, Christ Anestes! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u25	Bless the Lord! Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. The question shows your real interest in matters, not only, I imagine, in your area but more extensively in the agri-food sector, in particular the livestock sector. This story you are referring to, as you rightly described, is a story, which starts in 2014, when the livestock is actually affected by disease. From 2014 until today, six years have changed since then, if I remember well, three or four rural development ministers. One of the New Democracy and two of SYRIZA, if I count Mr. Lafasan, which is the first period that was unified, we go to four. Of course, during this whole period the question of compensation was not solved. So we are now coming to resolve this issue. Why wasn't he solved? It was not solved because, in fact, the checks that had to be carried out were not carried out in order to accurately determine the injury, as it had to be determined. However, this was not due to farmers, because farmers complied with the 2014 ministerial decision, which told them what they should do. Indeed, they delivered the dead animals in order to carry out checks. In fact, they made them available to the service in order to carry out the checks and for reasons of State control, i.e. those checks cannot be carried out. That is why a legal complication has been created, which is what he said. That, yes, the procedure has been followed on the part of farmers, but the checks required under this Ministerial Decision have not been carried out and that is where the matter has been carved and for six years they have looked at it. So how do we solve this now? We solve this by means of a provision which has been included at the end of the consultation of the bill. We have tabled a draft law, a consultation has been concluded and is currently pending at the Ministry of Finance, so that the Minister of Finance can also sign it in order to move forward and introduce a debate in this House. We have therefore resolved this by means of a specific legislative provision dealing with the legal issues and, above all, dealing with this legal complexity that I have told you. We also solved it by ensuring the amount from the state budget. Not to consider it all self-evident, because since 2014, transferring a sum and paying for 2020 is not self-evident. After we have done all this, and after all this is happening, and we are in fact waiting for the vote on the bill, that is to say, for the Greek Parliament to adopt this regulation proposed by the government to be activated and, after we have taken this initiative, listen to what I have heard. There's a gentleman there who, I understand, is a friend of SYRIZA, who comes and resigns and said he's going to court to claim. Let me tell him good luck! I should like to point out to him to get a good lawyer, because this requirement is now unregulated and therefore, as he advises farmers to go to the courts, they will go to the courts to see the limitation. They will also not only find the limitation. They will see there in the courts and various other legal issues that exist. It encourages them already that the amount we have anticipated is not enough for their compensation. I don't know if it's or it's not enough and whether it's satisfying or not. I know that the amount we have predicted, Mr Colleague, is the amount they would receive in 2014 on the basis of the ministerial decision. As they would have compensated then, if the services had operated, they will be compensated today. If the money was little then, it's very little today. If the money was a lot then, it's a lot today. Anything they'd get if the services had worked properly, that's what they'd get. Thank you for that, but I also urge you because there are experts who are taking advantage of the lack of information from farmers. You must also inform them that we, too, do not become the subject of exploitation, not of micro-political and naive issues. At some point Mr Arachovitis actually came out to tell me 'you are bringing the same provision that I have proposed to you as an amendment'. This provision is made by the Veterinary Office. Since it was so simple, Mr. Arachovitis why didn't he finish it? How many years was Minister? Two? And another two - two and a half was Mr. Apostle. Why is this not over, but does Voridis end in 2020? So it is not enough that they have slipped, it is not enough that they are negligent, it is not enough that they have not resolved basic issues, it is not enough that they have not committed funds, but now they are also representing the settlers and the invoicers. Hypocrisy goes too far. For the rest, I shall refer to the second part of my reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Kelles, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u27	It is a fact that you said a statement came out of the President of the Tyrnavo Animal Association in the newspaper, but it was done without prior consultation with the farmers, who know very well that the next day they came out with an announcement and applaud your actions to be compensated and in fact they 'emptied' their President, because, you know, the farmers are people who work 24 hours a day and clearly the information they have been a short time ago. In any case, as you said, they will now be taken. You are a law-abiding lawyer, and only you could solve it. That's a fact. The farmers are looking forward to you after your promise. But I would like to say this, Minister. It was to get the money in 2014, a little, a lot of what it was. It's been six years. Tonto, don't they have that money? Aren't these people entitled to take anything more? I don't know if it's 30 or 130 euros. It is said to be 30 euros for lambfish and 120 euros for cattle. But these six years - I told you this and I repeat - lost livestock, lost milk sold for six years and lost subsidies from OPEKEPE. Is there no way? If there is, anyway, because if there is, you'll find him, there's no way. That's why I'm addressing you. Is there no way? Duty on this six-year-old money isn't it right? If the farmers owed the public, how much would they pay for late payments? You know that better than I do. In any case, we expect this to be done as soon as possible. They're on your side. They took out the announcement, too. I'm going down to the subject with the pig farmers. The pig farmers notified you of a letter, namely their president, Mr. Bourras, along with the vice president, because of the pandemic and closed catering shops. You know very well that that's where pork is consumed. Our national product is round, it's buffalo. The catering shops are closed. Tourism does not exist for consumption. The price of pork has fallen. From 1,60-1,70 euros the kilo that was in January - February, right now it's at 1.05-1,10 euros. The big question, however, is not whether the price is 1.10. The question and their great agony is that there is no buyer coming to buy pork and pork, as you know, is not stored, because it is 11 months of production and the new animals come from behind. Where will they be stored? They get overweight and go useless. What do pig farmers want? The pig farmers, like farmers in general, are asking to join the affected undertakings and the affected producers in order to be included in measures to suspend the payment of obligations, tax, insurance and banking, by means of protection of the first residence and of the stacking facilities, and to abolish the additional EMI tax on the stable installations. I know what the answer will be: 'It is not my business, it is Mr Stavura's. It's all there that digs up to the Treasury Minister. However, because farmers in general and pig farmers see you as their Minister, I think you can exert the right pressure so that they too can join this category. After all, you have the EUR 150 million you have committed to strengthening these sectors. Since we have you here, I would like to ask another question, Minister. In mid-March we had ice-cream in Larissa again, in the area of Agia. In the cherry, there's nothing. There are trees that do not "cross" cherry, as we in the province say. They're not crucifying cherry! The ELGA has gone to the region, the pressures have started and the debates are beginning: will the producers be compensated? Aren't they going to be compensated? Is it because of the frost or is it because of the frost, but is the cause secondary? And they start with the MPs: 'Play the Minister', to compensate them, to put it in, not put it in. In the context of climate change, these damages have been repeated and more frequent in recent years, as you know very well. Last year we had the same thing as the almonds, again in the area of Larissa, the Municipality of Temps, and in the region of Elassona, in Domeniko. Finally, they received a very small remuneration through the de minimis of our farmers. Farmers do not want compensation. They want to be able to grow, they want to be able to produce and they want to sell their products. They're not asking for charity. They know the farm is a uncovered shop, as they know the loss of profit doesn't come out. It's all known now. Now at the end of May they have a cherries festival in Metaxochori, Agia. What kind of a cherry party can they do? A cherries license memorial will do. What about this ELGA Regulation? Is something finally going to happen? We wait, because we said there was going to be a change in the regulation. You have arranged a committee to change this regulation. In conclusion, I should like to say about the twenty-year Gaia Forest Program, in the Elassanos Municipality Elassanos Elassanos, in Agios Antonio area of Farsalon, but also in all Greece, which now also ask for the money back. If you can give a solution, only you can give it. I told you next time. They're looking forward to you. Your legal knowledge is capable. You are now proving it with the cataract you have compensated them for after six years. Let it be. It's too late than never. They're waiting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u29	Evidently many issues have been raised, which are escaping from the timely question. The honourable Member does so because he has a lively and sincere interest in the issues of his region but not just. Now look. I don't have the opportunity to answer you all over the range. The limitation of three minutes, in any case, shall be binding. I'll just say one good news. I will say that I am extremely happy, because I have just seen the decision - it has now come to my phone - of the European Commission. It is one of the first decisions, perhaps the first decision of the European Commission, which is to be approved under the provisional regulation of State aid, in order to allow the aid in the case of flower producers, at the request of the Greek Government. I say this, Mr Kelles, because I have heard things, which seem to be something some do not know or do not really know, but they only want to create impressions. I have heard things, which are 'you know, where's the money for the primary sector?' The money for the primary sector, because they are aids and because we do not do horizontal subsidies, but we intervene where aid really needs to be provided, have preconditions. There are preconditions for state aid. Now we're not in regularity. Now we are in a pandemic situation, we are in the restrictive measures because of the pandemic, we are in temporary regulations and at European level because of the pandemic. The normal situation, however, is not that State aid is granted. It is not normal and it is a violation of competition. However, in the non-regular we are now in a provisional regulation adopted by the Commission and voted by the European Parliament in order to justify this type of aid. However, they need approval, they need documentation, they need work on the part of those who make this request from the Member States. That is why I am happy today because this methodical work we are doing has been essentially approved and we can give these 11 million, which we have said we will give the flower producers. Our fishermen are being strengthened, not by the state aid procedure, but by the de minimis procedure of 15 million, and we are currently in a debate to determine the amount of aid that has to go to our sheep and go to our sheep farmers from these 150 million to which you have referred. But I want to stress it through you and be heard in general. This is not a process that has features, as SYRIZA may have used to our producers, of negotiation policy. ‘How much do you want? Somewhere so much. I don't have that much to give you." That's not how it works. There is evidence, there are documents, there are numbers, there are quantities, there are values, there are injury determinations, there is a methodology for allocating the aid, and all this is not within the Ministry simply. They work intensively to process and prepare such a file. To make the fisheries dossier, these 15 million even though they went to de minimis, because medium and large fishing will go to the even stronger mechanism of the Fisheries Programme - the third mechanism - there has been a multi-purpose analytical documentation of the impact of the pandemic on each fisheries sector. So this work is not self-evident and automatic. That's what we're doing to ovine and caprine farmers now. So I tell you that the main preparatory work has been done. I'm telling you one more thing, Mr. Kelles. In order to protect the interests of farmers and not to lose their aid and the right to aid, this documentation will be done and it will be carried out in full and organized and carried out methodically. I am not going to give up to anyone who cries 'given money horizontally' or 'given the likes', because that will result in recovery. I'll give it, we won't pass the files, and then it'll be considered as unjust aid and we'll come back and get it back. I'm not gonna do this. I'm not gonna be in my hands. It will become the way it should and will feel confident that farmers will be given fair support. This also applies to the sheep and goat farmers, who have advanced the debate, which is mature and within the next few days I will also say the exact amount and methodology to be supported, because we are ending this dossier, and it will also be with the pig farmers who have raised the matter to me. On this, what am I telling you? I tell you that the issue was raised yesterday and I will therefore begin to study the evidence to answer whether there is a disturbance, what extent it is. For all of this, however, I need, as I have said, the documentation and figures, as will be done in every sector of the primary sector - this debate has begun for the tomato, this debate has also begun for strawberries - where there is a affected area. However, no political demands, not horizontal requests, but demands which are based on real elements of price disruption or a disruption in quantity due to the coronary, that is, the measures we have taken to tackle a pandemic. That's the methodology. This will be followed respectfully. Obviously it takes its time, but this is the way it is going to be, in order to really be effective in what we need to do and not just right-wing - to the left to fly crowns, as I hear from various people who are supposedly severely cut off on what is happening to producers, but which in fact is the only thing for which they are cut is to represent the Herakers irresponsibly, to exploit people's agony. We won't do that. We will support them substantially, truly, systematically, efficiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you both very much. We continue with the second with number 646/29-4-2020 current question of the first cycle of the Piraeus MP in the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Work a motorcycle from the security of a guarded person and an effort to hide the incident from the Government". Mr Ragosisi, you have two minutes at your disposal. Good morning to you and many years. Jesus Christ Resurrection!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u31	Good morning and many years, Mr President. Minister, when I was preparing for the debate we are going to have today, bearing in mind everything that has been seen in publicity - and from the video I also mean from the press release you published as the Minister's political leadership after the timely parliamentary question we tabled - I was given the opportunity to put a title in this timely question. And the title is 'two and a half'. The "two" comes from the second chance you have today, Mr. Secretary, as Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, firstly to revise, disprove the voluntarily unacceptable press release you have issued since the timely question we have asked you, a second chance in fact to tell the truth. Half of it now is related to the contents of the press release you've published, which is full of inaccurate, it's full of half the truths, which, as you know very well, end up - especially when one handles such issues - making them worse than lying. You will have to ask yourself, by listening to this debate - and I am well prepared to say - why this matter is so serious now and we have not been enough to ask a written question, answer it forty days, to give some information and to finish it. Is the point that a government cannot have in its ranks a police officer who will someday act in a way that is in breach of the law? Apparently not. Such incidents, such events have happened and in the past, they have now happened, they will also happen in the future. What makes this case serious now, Mr. Undersecretary? Your annoying answer, essentially your entirely disturbing reaction to this case, which to us - and to every one of us, I think - shows that you have been trying to cover up for weeks, something and someone you are trying to hide. And the question is, who and why all this? After the answer you will give, waiting - I repeat - to make real use of this second opportunity that you are given as a government, then you will also be listening to our further position. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. The question by Mr Ragosi will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes at your disposal. And to you many years, Christ Anestes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u33	Rise and shine! Happy birthday, Mr President. It gives a special impression that an incident of road tension, in fact involving a police officer from the Directorate-General for Official and Sensitive Objectives, has been exploited and exploited today with clear political feasibility and targeting. Regarding the incident that took place in the contribution of the Xenia and Michalakopoulou roads to the midday of April 27th, there was an announcement - information - from the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Headquarters of the Greek Police. The announcement was published precisely because circles of SYRIZA attempted to give an entirely different dimension to the real, exploiting a fragmented video that was captured or found in the possession of known “Ruvikon” executives, which, apparently, the Civic Anti-Policy is more trusted by the public authorities. So I will tell you that the moves of the Greek Police have been immediate. The government and Headquarters of the Greek Police did not try or try to hide the incident. Since the first moment, the Hellenic Police Headquarters has handled the case, since it was involved with a police officer, with the necessary responsibility. She commissioned her investigation to the Home Affairs Department. As you know, the Home Office of Security Bodies is acting on appeal for preliminary examination, in accordance with Articles 243 and 244 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The preliminary examination - as it is known - is a secret. With the completion of the investigation, there will be an update on the incident. Do not try to give a case of another character than the one it actually has for reasons of opposition alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Mr Ragossi, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u35	I am very sorry, Mr Secretary-General, that you are presently representing - I repeat - the Mitsotakis Government once again in this debate on the fact that you have not taken advantage of the second opportunity that you have been given. A cause of speech and keep it: The murderous coronary - I am not saying it - for power is arrogance, especially for power, Secretary, who has the illusion that she is almighty. And I think that if it is true that arrogance is the coroner of power, as a government you must very seriously deal with what has found you. Honestly, could anyone say in the context of the exchanges of wishes of days, "Do you have your god?" In other words, do you dare, as a government, repeat this vulgarity that you included in the press release with the implied "Civilisation" in relation to the organization of "Rubicon", when you a moment ago, once again, Mr. Undersecretary, what did you say to the Greek Parliament and to the Greek people? You said you have ordered a series of investigations, you have activated a number of services, including the public prosecutor, because a "Rubicon" official gave this video to publicity. Honestly, aren't you embarrassed? You as the entire government, as an official Greek state, have been activated on the basis of this video by the member of the "Rubicon" and dare for the second time, do you have the courage to address such slandering implied suggestions, such - if you like - repetitive nonsense that characterises the extreme right of the New Democracy of Mitsotakis? I'm really asking you, aren't you embarrassed anymore? Based on what complaint and report you've done everything you've done? So, what are you doing? Are you paying attention to the "Rubic", Mr. Undersecretary? Is any complaint of any member of the “Rubic” worth and credibility to you? Minister, I return to you the unacceptable questions - slanderings you have constantly made against us! And after all, let me tell you anyway, Mr. Undersecretary. If a member of the "Rubic" brings you videos in which he will record murder, rape or Minister who will take them, will you say "is of the "Rubicon" and I do not assess it, do I not take into account the competent authorities?" Is that a rule of law? It's obviously not. And obviously all this is very low-level communication diversions. But it is not just the issue of 'Rubicon', Mr Secretary-General. It's more important than that. It is that as a government you continue to lie in the Greek Parliament. Do you know why, Mr. Undersecretary? Because apart from you, who thinks - it seems to me - you're too smart and all the rest of us are stupid and stupid, I don't know how many hundreds of thousands - perhaps even millions - citizens have seen this video. And in this video, Mr. Secretary, two appear to be acting in violation and outright and not one as you falsely said here today, as you falsely included in the epicly unacceptable press release you issued against us. Why don't you say anything about the second person, Lieutenant? It's recorded in the images. Why did you use today first of all? Why are you talking about a cop? Who's the second guy? Who's the second? Is he a cop? Is it, Mr. Undersecretary, a private guard? Is he a member of a private security company? Is it - according to the information we have and do not even adopt them today - a recently condemned person who co-exists and assists the policeman? Maybe? We're asking, Mr. Undersecretary. So you lied here too, because they're two people and you're referring to one and only one. So what do you have to say about the second person? Why are you hiding him? What are you all trying to cover up in this serious case? And I'll tell you why it's too serious now. We also have a commander of the NSA now, a former private security company official. Have joint para-state, small-type paramilitary organisations, small numbers of people, made up of police officers and private guards, been set up? Have you investigated all this? You said internal affairs about the cop. The second person that comes in, you've done research? I want protocol numbers and documents. I will tell you how you will be required as a government to give them up then. I shall conclude, Mr President, with two words. The first debate, Mr Mitsotakis, is this: we have so far known that we have a government which, with Mr Mitsotakis in the first and best terms, is serving in a prosperous police populism. These, that I will catch the "Rubic" on July 8 with the Prime Minister you'll make me, that I will finish with the unbaptised Exarchates in a month, that said in an election to take the vote of the citizens and all those related, including the fact that the government of this Prime Minister has speeded up, instead of hiring doctors and nurses, to hire a thousand five hundred special guards, to give them north to the battle unit and to the needs of everyday life untrained, since, of course, he had hired them outside the PPA, outside the Greeks, your "your own children" again, the "subordinates". We have this police populism and we will continue and reveal it and denounce it. But now, Mr Secretary, you have to leave here, bearing in mind that we now have a deep concern that what exists - and I wish we could deny - is no longer just a matter of police populism, but is perhaps a matter of police detention. Because only in this way can the event be explained and the existence of two leading people and the systematic secret from you about who is the second one and who is ultimately the one who guarded the two, the police officer and the private security. The second answer of the Government, Mr. State Secretary, is being returned as unacceptable. We - and you will allow me to say all of us, but that also applies to me very much - do not have the opinion, we are not in favour of criminalising the political life of the country. That is why we will give you another chance, a third opportunity, to reveal the truth to the Greek people and ask for apologies now. But know that: one liar, two liar, three and his bad fate!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Economou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u37	We must not involve the police in political purposes, nor should it be attempted in this Parliament, on the basis of incidents, to produce temporary impressions. There are, of course, incidents or accidents, not on a regular basis, involving Greek police personnel or vehicles. In particular, for example, we were sad at the Ministry about another incident, a car accident that occurred in the western regions of the Lefkanopedia with the involvement of a patrol a few 24 hours after the incident you are trying to raise with your question. On a daily basis thousands of policemen, hundreds of Greek police vehicles are moving across Greece. There are incidents in time of service and beyond with the involvement of police officers that concern us. There are procedures, however, which are followed in any case - as in the case in Michalakopoulou -, the facts are examined, evidence is collected, the material is assessed, findings are drawn and accounted for on a case-by-case basis. The police and the Ministry in the field of responsibility for the country's internal security move on the basis of constitutional legitimacy, respect the principles of the rule of law. You should feel safe, like the citizens, that in Greece it applies the law and serves public order a democratic and European police structure. Compliance with the rules and taking responsibility for each unfortunate incident is absolute. It all moves on the basis of parliament and the rule of law. We have absolutely nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you both very much. Here is the first question under number 650/4-2020 of the second question of the MP Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Aid to the Health Centre". Mr. Poula, many years, Christ Anestes! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Happy birthday to you too. Minister, Argolidas Prefecture belongs to the affected areas of COVID -19, as the first case of the Koroniovius was found from the Great Thursday in the housing of refugees at the hotel "GLAXIA" in Porto Heli. Of the four hundred seventy - seventy - one guest asylum seekers, mainly from sub -Saharan African countries, were found by the EGE step that forty - eight were coronary bodies. Here we must stress that both the presence and intervention of the EGE and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection were delayed. The structure was then sealed and the whole area was quarantined for fourteen days from 21 April, which expired on 4-5-2020. The structure continues to be quarantine for another week. At a meeting held on 20 April in Kranidios Town Hall, the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Hardalias, announced measures to address the urgent situation, including the strengthening of the health centre with six doctors and four nurses and the 24-hour availability of the EKA for the region's structure and needs. In addition to the two scenes set up by the army to serve the needs of those who will be ill and the administration for the management of the crisis - and, not least, are inadequate, they do not comply with the hygiene standards. They had no water - from the other promises made, none was implemented. EGE's health staff for crisis management needs in the structure has never been, except in the first two days of great publicity. Your announcement of 24-hour availability of EKAB has not been implemented. Case management was not expected. These people have been left to their luck and as a result we are talking about a structure in which we currently do not know the facts. They're probably all infected. And the hard part of the management will now be in front of you when the quarantine is over. This situation is also known to the people in the region and has raised reasonable concerns about the evolution of the dispersion after the quarantine has been lifted on 11 May - whether or not I know at any other date - but also in view of the increased turnout due to the holidaymakers coming to the area, because you know very well that it is an area which many visit it in the summer. I think you've seen the reports on the hotel's biological cleansing. There was a post in the paper "TA NEW" on Saturday that passed us. And after that, I ask you, Minister, what are your intentions to control the spread of the virus in the region after the quarantine has been lifted into the particular hospitality structure? How will the conditions of safe stay of the guests be checked so that the virus does not spread and how will the inhabitants of the region be protected? Will the guests be re-tested? And what measures will you take to strengthen the Skull Health Center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, will answer, to whom I must also apologize to his partner since our previous meeting. You left fast and I didn't have time. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Mr Poula, thank you very much for the question because you are giving us the opportunity to show once again that, in the case of the Sranidian government, the state has reacted quickly, it has reacted immediately. Both the Civil Protection, the Ministry of Health, the National Agency for Public Health prompted the region to implement all the necessary protocols and to take all necessary and necessary measures. That's why we managed not to get the situation out of our control. For the record, I would mention that the first confirmed case was in fact identified on Thursday 16 April 2020. A woman who worked on the refugee housing was tested and found positive on the coronary. Immediately put her house in a health lockdown. It is worth mentioning that this woman had to appear in the structure much earlier than April 8th, when she was licensed from work. By confirming this first case, the hosting structure was placed in health exclusion. On Easter Sunday, April 19th, we had the second confirmed case, so all the mechanism was mobilized immediately and promptly. On Monday, April 20th, 12 people, medical and nursing staff, had already been installed in the cradle of the National Public Health Agency, to carry out all the necessary checks. At first, tests were carried out, tests were carried out, throughout the hotel's staff, in a number of twenty-five people. At the same time, all four hundred seventy-seven guests of the refugee structure of the International Organisation for Migration were checked. On the outside of the structure a tent was set for the hospitality of a doctorate specifically for the needs of the refugee hospitality structure. The EMCDDA, as always, is in 24-hour mode and preparedness. It is also important to carry out checks on the hosting structure, and it is characteristic that a hundred and eighty businesses in the wider region have been checked. This is how we ensured that there was no spread of the virus in the community. The sanitary blockade of the structure, which has existed since Easter Sunday, has continued since last Friday for fourteen more days. We follow closely and without exception the experts' directives. This is how we ensure that the virus is not dispersed. This means that the lifting of sanitary blocks in Kranidi will come exactly when experts will give the green light. As far as the Centre for Health in Kranidia is concerned, I would remind you that it is made up of permanent staff: seven doctors of various specialties, four general medical professions, a doctor of pediatrics, two pathology and seven nurses. They also serve four general medical specialists and two outdoor doctors, covering the needs of regional doctors, but normally taking part, as is the case everywhere, in the health center newspaper program. Also in the power of the health center serves paramedical personnel of obstetrics, visitors of health, social workers, operators of radiological machinery, manufacturers and drivers of ambulances. To address the exceptional needs of the COVID Pandemic -19, with the actions of the administration of the 6th Health Region, the Health Centre was further strengthened. A total of eight doctors of different specialties and nurses were moved to this, two groups of nurses were created from General Hospitals Argos and Nafplio for short-term movements, the two ambulances of the health center were found and are in constant readiness and in addition, another ambulance parks in the area on a 24-hour basis. In conclusion, I would like to point out, among other things, the excellent cooperation and practical assistance that we have had in this effort and from local bodies. In particular, the Medical Association of Argolidas and its President, with essential interventions and proposals, acted as a catalyst, speeding up the implementation of the overall design of the Ministry of Health in dealing with the local cases of the coronary pandemic and the protection of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. Mr. Poula, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u43	Minister, I have listened very carefully. Half-truths. That's what I'd call them. On the first point, namely strengthening the health centre, you committed yourself to employing six doctors, four nurses, and that is not the case, nor will it be done. There is currently no ancillary staff on the lists, it's over. They've taken the rest of the hospitals. So there's a problem with staffing the health center. From there, what did you do? Only by giving a mandate from the Commander of the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs to fellow doctors serving in another Health Center, the Ljublur Health Center, to go to meet the needs of the health center there. Why was this created? The subject was raised why a structure was built just outside the hosting area of immigrants. And there should have been medically covered, even though the scene I told you before did not meet the necessary hygiene conditions. He didn't have a big problem with water. Is it possible to see people who suffer from COVID and do not have water to wash their hands? And there was the big deal and the doctors refused to go to that structure. Apart from that, there were other problems. There were problems because there were no clear instructions on how the incidents would be handled. The patient came in, they saw him in the structure, he was leaving the structure, he went to the health center, they took all the measures, but where he was going from? Would he go to the Argos - Nafplio structure, whichever is on the verge of the two, or would it go directly to the centre of reference? That's where the mess was going. In fact, you will also see this through legal proceedings between colleagues. There was no specific 'bousula' to be able to know what the specific incidents would do and they entered a process of protesting the reference centres in the health centre, the health centre protesting to hospitals and finding no way out. Also, sometime the quarantine will be lifted. How's this thing going to happen? How do you think to deal with it? Are you going to run a test on all of them? Are we going to re-evaluate them? So we'll know how many people are healthy after all? Why now are they limited, but should they not be released? Are there to stay locked in there? Is this hotel going to be in jail? And since we talked about the Skull issue, I would like to put a more general issue. So far, I have heard you say hiring ancillary staff, permanent doctors, as Minister nine hundred forty-two last announced. For primary health care, I haven't heard a single word. All I heard was these KMY units that you set up with money through the ERR. What are you thinking of doing for primary health care? It is a matter that will dominate because I believe that through primary health care our hospitals can resurrect. There's no other way. Magic solutions we don't have. All good with the beds that you raised the number, but not to have the previous issues - problems of previous years - you should present to us your design for primary health care, see what you are thinking about. It's a matter you need to see. And another, as far as donations are concerned. In fact, individuals have thrown too much money into this crisis. We, as a Change Movement, made a letter to the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and we ask the committee to take over the control and accountability of all these donations. And, indeed, money should not only be given to Athens and Thessaloniki. They should be given everywhere. Because the district has problems. You know very well that our region, because we come from the same region, has only 20 IC beds. Shouldn't we see it? What are the islanders gonna do? Problems are ahead of them. That is why I am saying transparency and targeted action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I will start from the last with regard to donations, because I replied - if I remember it was about mid-April - to your question specifically on donation. We talked about it and then, repeat it once again. In addition to the audit by committees of approved people, we have said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u46	Will you bring it to the House? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u47	We have said this when I answered your question that in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the House we will bring in a full account of the donations from where the money came from and where this money goes. And I'm sure they're going to the whole health system, not just in Athens. We have also said that the system at the moment has not stopped its preparation for the coronary because nothing is over. It gradually returns to its initial function, but at the same time we are preparing for any adverse development in the course of the disease. In this respect, we also have a specific plan - planning for primary health care, which has played, and will play a role in dealing with the coronary. We have said that for this phase the next time it seems that the disease, the health system and the structures will be ready in terms of the coronary. There will be beds especially for COVID, emergency departments will normally be receiving suspect cases, health centres will only be in place for COVID and large urban centres outside Athens, health centres throughout the country - over two hundred health centres - have clear instructions on how to deal with suspected cases and how they will be intersected in regional hospitals and reference hospitals. There is therefore a broader design in terms of primary health care and, in fact, through the crisis in this coronary, we have been given the opportunity to see how primary health care really can function within an integrated development plan of the whole health system. It is what you are saying and we have all agreed over the years that primary health care can deal with incidents without having to burden our hospitals without being unduly burdened. And I think that was best proved during the coronary period. There is also a broader design for primary health care. I should like to mention to you specifically for the region of Argolida, because there are old suggestions that we are considering for the creation of a regional medicine in Porto Heli and in the Valley of the Municipal Unit of Ermionida. So we are still planning to develop primary health care. As far as Skull is concerned, let me say there was no mess. Everything worked perfectly and we were able to narrow down any virus dispersion. Health structures worked. Of course, the on-calls were also regularly covered by movements, which are provided for in the framework of the operation of the health centres and hospitals in the region and, yes, we have declared nine auxiliary staff posts. One of them, unfortunately, has been paid. There was no demand for the rest of the seats. However, we have said many times that since these lists do not have other people, we will clearly reopen the platform in order to have more staff available to enable these structures to function properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, both of us. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-06-S1-commons.u49	With the agreement of the House at 10.48 p.m. the sitting on Friday 8 May 2020 is closed at 9 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate, and b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
