ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 12-6-2020 authorisation, PNZ's minutes were ratified by the Bureau on Thursday 11 June with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and the illegal importation, export, movement or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia for cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’. 3. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan’ 4. ‘Study Upgrade and Other Provisions’. 5. ‘Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation’ and the Hellenic State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A' 170) and other provisions’ We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In the context of the Prime Minister's time, the question will be discussed under number 764-30-2-2020 of the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, on the subject: "It is an effective response to the consequences of the health crisis in the Greek economy." Speaking times, with the necessary economic tolerance, pursuant to Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure, are for the President-in-Office of the coalition ten minutes in order to develop the timely question and five minutes in relation to his dentistry and the Prime Minister twenty minutes in terms of protology and ten minutes in terms of dentistry. So he has the floor, the Chief of Staff Response and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, I had asked you this question ten days ago. Meanwhile, the publication of ELSTAT's data showing something unique was mediated, which obviously did not emerge in the last few days from the dozens of sites, the dozens of newspapers, small and large, non-existent, media, which have been injected into state money all the time, unlike the real economy and business. What's the only one? I'm saying this because I really think that's what you've achieved. You received in July 2019 an economy run at an annual growth rate of 2.8%. You have received an economy that has been rectified by the debris and the ruins of your own old choices that have immersed us in the Memorandums and were for twelve consecutive quarters at positive growth rates. And while you had promised and won the elections with this promise that 2% and 2.5% and 2.8% are very low growth rate, the economy is dragging, you have achieved the unprecedented achievement, within just four months, an economy that had twelve consecutive quarters of positive growth rate, in October 2019, long before a coronary came, long before the pandemic, to plunge it into recession. The ones we promised growth. That's not a coronary feat. This is a success, a success of yours and Mr Stakouras and of the financial staff, all of them. It is a success for the same people, that in previous years they have known how to sink an economy into recession. They had us down in the recession before. And because scriptta manent, as they say, I have the data from EUROSTAT here. Here, then, we see the fourth quarter of 2019 that Greece, our country, is the country with the worst return from all the countries of the European Union of twenty-seven, with-0.7%. I repeat the fourth quarter, October, November, December 2019. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The only three countries with a negative sign in the last quarter of 2019 are Greece - first and best, if we return backwards, they made them some media, showing the maps backwards - Finland and Italy. And in the first quarter of 2020, 0.7% becomes less -1.6%. It's the coronary, but the lockdown took place in the last ten days of the first quarter of 2020. You're laughing, but it's a feat. You deserve congratulations on what you have achieved. Receive an economy with twelve quarters in growth and take it to your best in recession. So the coroner must have made you feel better in relation to your performance in the economy. I'm saying that because now you're gonna throw it all over the coronary. The crucial question, however, is why this happened. Why did this happen? Why have you screwed up so fast in the economy, even though you're presenting yourself as excellent technocrats to bring us development? We're still waiting to see this investment explosion. Remember what you fed a few days before the elections that in the first few weeks you would put bulldozers in the Greek to bring growth and fill investments. I would really like you to tell me today a serious investment that you, almost a year ago, are government, not the ones that had been launched before. But let's sit down and see why you messed up. You screwed up, first and foremost, because you did not want to take advantage of the credibility of the country that we won in the European Union on the international markets. Because we took the country out of the memoranda, we brought growth back, we set the debt, we left EUR 37 billion in the public funds. We were the only government to deliver not burnt land, another 37 billion in public funds. So you did not want to take advantage of this credibility of the country, in order to submit, as we had said, about 5 billion in a special account to be able from 2020 to have lower budgetary targets and thus 1% margin. Why did you do that? So you could take it as much as you could in 2021. On the basis of this policy, we had launched and announced a number of alleviations, a number of pro-development measures, the abolition of the solidarity levy, the reduction of the average VAT rate, the reduction of 50% of the tax advance, the strengthening of allowances that enhance active demand, the increase in minimum wage and 2020 for 7.5%. You've all abolished this. Secondly, in the available budget area that you had, the one that we left - even on the basis of 3.5%, and in 2019 there was fat for 2020 - you chose, instead of strengthening pro-development policies to stimulate active demand, to reduce the tax on profits from businesses and shareholder dividends. And that, of course, for someone who has a profit of EUR 1 million, for example, annually is EUR 40,000, 4%, but for the vast majority of businesses in the country, who have no big profits, it is a pocket money, it is 400 euros, it was a gift. And those who took the saradara and the fifty and sixty out of the tax reduction, Christmas didn't take a vacation here, probably in Switzerland. But those who took the social dividend every December and were about one and a half million citizens, one and a half million households probably, not citizens, who took the social dividend and this year only got it one quarter of them, what was collected in December, consumed it in the marketplace, in their neighborhood, in their village, in their prefecture. So I was going out in December at stores and shops, and they told me it was the worst festivals in the last five years, and I wondered, how it's possible, we got back to the memorials? You laughed here, too. So here's the evidence. It was also your choice to cut the Public Investment Programme in the second half of 2019, thus closing to 600 million less than in 2018. It was also your choice to cancel all major infrastructure projects that the government of SYRIZA, E65, Patras - Pyrgos, the main road axis of Crete, Airport of Kastelli, Metro of Thessaloniki, Line 4 of Athens metro. They had secure resources and specific timetables, and you did all together two and a half years back. Why? To prove that they are your works? The irony is that in your programme you were electorally saying that with these projects, infrastructure projects, you would shape forty thousand new jobs. With these projects, however, it is not only that you build infrastructure which is useful for the place, it is not only that you create jobs, but you also have a refund of half of the expenditure in the state, from VAT, from wage earners' tax, from excise duty. You stopped them. Hey, how do we get growth? At the same time you left the banks uncontrollable to lend only to anyone who can prove that he has money and doesn't have to borrow. At the same time that you are preparing 12 billion guarantees for red loans, you have not put any conditions to give money on the market. According to the Bank of Greece figures in December 2019, the total bank lending to the private sector, i.e. to households and businesses, decreased by 9.4% on an annual basis and by 1.9% on a quarterly basis, so as not to talk about delaying the target, which you presented before the coronary came in the first two months of 2020. In short, Mr Mitsotakis, fire again long before the pandemic, the boat, you know. Your failure in the economy, which is universal, takes precedence over the coronary. Then, of course, the pandemic came, and of course, we all turned attention to public health, to the protection of human life, and that is right. Because we are not miserable and are not criticising the criticism and opposition of the opposition, we have supported this. And we say that rightly, relatively timely, the country was coordinated with the directives of the global health community and also adopted tough preventive measures. But did he also take preventive measures for the economy? Did he take horizontal measures for the economy? You say you have supported the real economy with EUR 24 billion. Where are these? Where is he? Go on. I have been on the market all these days, in the people of the market, talking to people on the market. If you had dropped these 24 billion - when we say 'Put 13', and you say 'It's a lot'. - if you had, uh, told me someone's satisfied. I don't even find one satisfied. In fact, the budgetary measures that do not give rise to debts to citizens, according to the OECD report, which you have taken or announced and which you have taken, are just 8.5 billion. Payment suspensions are 3.2 billion. They'll be invited to pay for it. When and how was it? Uh, what if you take it instead of having no? 3.2 billion in payment suspensions and 2 billion in repayable advance. It's a loan, State. And they'll return them. We should put these in, however, and what the citizens, businessmen, 14, are going to return, not 24. Once your apologised father ruled and he had come out of the relentless "0 plus 0 equals 14". Now you have "14 plus 0 equals 24". These are your mathematics, I guess. Where's 24? Of course I'll tell you what you're doing, a reasonable leap. You are talking about the ‘expected additional impact of measures’. But even if we calculate this "expected additional effect" so that we can be lulled by various secondary television showors, who have blogs and give them money - the Greek people's money is these, Mr Mitsotakis. Will you give the public the list of money you've given, the money that Mr. Pechas has given to the best man and the bumpers? Because we once criticized you because you were giving money to the canals. Canalarchs at least have workers to feed, unlike these strange guys, to whom you have given tributelessly state money, to engrave you on their headlines, that you are the Messiah, that you are Moses. The truth is that only one Moses could get an economy with twelve consecutive quarters of growth and take it into recession. That's true. Would you give the list and the money? You have even abolished transparency, a reform of institutional, progressive, accountability, for strengthening democracy. But I'm coming back now. We left 37 billion in public funds, not because we are good people - we are good people - but why did we have to support the Greek economy, because we did not have the logic 'Who will govern? Oh, leave him the trap." as Samaras has made us, the debt trap, the trap of budgetary suffocation, planning parentheses. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, since there are resources, because, in 2020, there is the so-called'support clause', there is no objective for primary surpluses, there is no stability pact, there are no restrictions, why do you not use, in advance, part of the cash available in order to support entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized, to support the work, now that they need support? Because if you do it in September and October, when thousands of padlocks have been put on the market, it will be too late for these people, they won't be able to stand. Why don't you choose this and go with "seeing and doing"? You have chosen to fund job suspension instead of work itself. Nowhere else in Europe can that happen. Of course these are some choices of deep neoliberal, rotating work, the workers' bank, which every businessman will choose every time according to his needs, are some ideas that existed in the pounds, in the drawers of the Greek Industrial Association. They were calling us these ideas, too. You have these ideas in Maximus and you implement them, in the light of the crisis. We have therefore proposed and proposed the generous support for work, for those undertakings that are suspended at 100%, for heavy-duty businesses in the focus, on tourism, on transport, that there be 100% financing of insurance costs and 40% of wages, provided that no single worker is fired. You give them little and you give them no conditions, because from September the black cry of thousands of workers will begin, which, of course, will not be possible for businessmen to keep them and fire them. You also reduce the basic salary by 20% by the way you finance it. We have also proposed substantial support for businesses, except for the financing of insurance and wage costs. We're talking about non-refundable aid. Like our country - and rightly so - calls for subsidies to stand by the European Union, and the small enterprise needs a working capital. We say, based on the number of workers, that EUR 2 000 per worker should be allocated to each undertaking, especially to the small and medium-sized ones, so that we do not see thousands of padlocks entering September. What are you doing? The majority of small and medium-sized businessmen are desperate - try to respond to them today, not to me - because they see on the one hand that citizens are unable to consume, on the other hand, that the government does not meet their needs. You have built this financial instrument, TEPIX II and the repayable advance. Two thousand businesses, in the second only fifty-three thousand businesses, have entered, much less than 10% of the number of enterprises. Everyone else isn't in there. We cannot see any dramas in this area next time. Why is that? Because the vast majority of enterprises are excluded from the state's tools. And the reason is that you've put the banks in front of you as a potion, between state and business. The banks operate on criteria relating to times of smoothness, not a time of crisis. Liquidity doesn't reach those who need it. It's enough to others, to the good customers of the banks. There are also the funds that the banks entangle and then channel them into their so-called "client pieto". That's the reality. What was channelled by the European Central Bank at a negative interest rate is 16 billion and the banks have only channelled 4 billion into the market on their "pelete". For those I met, I was told, 'We have no access'. And, of course, I would ask you to accept the proposal from GATT to hold a debate, a special meeting of the Committees on Production and Trade and Economic Affairs - Mr President of the House, I call on you, because it is your responsibility to do so - and to put these problems in place. They're real problems. It's not the Opposition and the Opposition rhetoric. These are problems of entrepreneurship. I would also like to talk about sensitive sectors of the economy: tourism, focus, culture, transport. Your latest communications to support tourism through a social tourism programme, which you raised from 10 million, which was during the crisis, at 30 million, are drops in the ocean. When tourist demand is falling this year too much - let me not say number, I do not want to be a veteran of bad ones - and when the turnover of foreign tourists coming, is close to 85% and the internal market is small, what are we going to do this year? One thing we can do is, at least, a brave domestic tourism program, not 30,000,000 million. We say you give $600,000, $700,000. That's what we suggest. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] There's no money, is there? Oh, there's no money. There's money somewhere else. Money trees here, too. Mr. Mitsotakis, don't laugh, because in the public funds we didn't leave you money, but the fruits of the sacrifices of the Greek people four years in a row to get out of the crisis. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] And you are keeping these fruits today to channel them to the banks and some major business groups, perhaps tomorrow, when the market has been restructured. Civilization workers were treated without any respect. It's thousands of workers. It's not only the well-known artists who won't make concerts this year. However, even very serious creators who have identified their name with Greece, with our country, your Minister deceives them by means of formats when claiming for the people of culture. In any case, however, the measures announced after pressure from our own and from the artists do not even meet their needs to a minimum. Also, farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen need support. Especially the livestock farmers. Make a visit to the Peloponnese to talk to the olive growers or to Crete, which is your country. Crete, you know, was an island that didn't understand the crisis as much as the rest of Greece, because the people there had additional incomes of one of the tourism, one of their crops. Now they're losing everything. They're losing all over the place. All right, they saw the crisis because pensions were reduced, wages. But they had additional incomes. What about these people? What about seasonal workers? There are invisible workers, tour operators. I saw in Rhodes. People told me that they would receive income for sixteen months after the last time they had income, in October 2019, because they are seasonal workers, if everything goes well and the pandemic is over. So since you have not taken measures forward, since you have not moved in time and have been brave enough to cover the great recession that operates as a vicious cycle - and we have had experience since 2010-2015 - you must, at least now, draw up a serious protection network for those who have been severely hit by the crisis, as Italy and Spain do. That's why we proposed emergency income. And it does not concern - like the CRL that we have given - only low incomes. With assets, we say. It concerns both the free trader, the lawyer, the engineer, the self-employed who had a relatively good income, but "run" his inappropriate expenses and saw this income sinking, despairing and despair. That is why we say, in this umbrella, that nine hundred, thousands of households, unemployed, precarious workers, black and white workers, with fixed-term contracts, seasonal workers in tourism, farmers and farmers, affected by free traders, artists. And, of course, people with disabilities. Let's not forget these fellow citizens. All of these, therefore, have the possibility of an exceptional income of EUR 400 per person, EUR 200 for the second adult in the household and EUR 100 for each child. Mr. Mitsotakis, I ask you today to try to answer these people, not me. I ask you to respond to all these people who are very anxious to see the reality getting worse and worse and you triumph, celebrate with the various sites and newspapers that are swaying you, but in practice give too little, too late. The measures you have taken are inadequate and we do not understand why. You had - and I'm coming down after that from the Step - just one argument. What? If we forwardly support the real economy, we might be running out of ammunition next year. And the Commission is coming and announcing a programme - positive, we have said, perhaps better of our expectations - about 23 billion for Greece over the next three years in subsidies. So what is the excuse now? Of course, there will be negotiation and this amount may be reduced. But he won't disappear. So what is the excuse now? I believe that there is no excuse and I believe that the only answer that might exist is that you have decided to face the crisis as an opportunity for a large and deep restructuring in the labour market and the market in general. They would once say that, "The death of the merchant." Today I am going to say that, unfortunately, the death of a dynamic part of the Greek economy that before the elections you have excited it and after their elections you are telling them that their businesses are zombies. Zombie, however, is your economic policy that has led us to the recession before the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u3	The debate in the Committees on Production and Trade and Economics, Mr Tsipras, Mr President, on what you said, will take place in the next week at least in the presence of the Minister for Development and the Union of Greek Banks and the parties will be notified. The Prime Minister has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Tsipras, I saw a tension and an irritation in your prototype. I guess the air you visited in Thessaloniki didn't help your psychological mood, perhaps because on the subway you weren't welcomed mustamads, but a real construction site. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras, you continue at every appearance of yours in the House from this Step when you make references to the economy to present a state of the Greek economy as you delivered it, in our view particularly well-prepared. In any case, however, you have not yet succeeded in answering an essential question: if things were going so well in July 2019, why did you lose the election with almost ten units? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If things go as badly as you have today, why do this picture of society - and I will not refer to the polls that reflect the intention of voting but to those more substantial measurements that reflect the index of optimism in Greek society - is completely different from the picture that you present here today from the Step of the House? I fear that the lessons from your previous government and from the verdict of the polls have not yet been received. You continue today to make a desperate effort to appear as a proponent of those whom you have literally dispersed with your own policies. You have now discovered the small and mediumsized ones, you, who have been brutally exaggerated and led to a situation of absolute despair. You did not say today - perhaps you did not do so at the edge of the speech, perhaps you did not do so consciously - in your intention to reduce VAT to 6%. When you meet the businessmen and you're alone, you tell them that. But you cannot say it in the House, because people in the catering industry remember very well that you took VAT from 13% to 24% and you are now coming to bid to say that it will be down to 6%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let me answer one - one in your two main arguments as well as in your question and as you have developed them in your prototype. The first argument is that things in the economy were going very badly before the coronary and your second argument is that the measures taken by the government are inadequate and we should give many more. So I start with your first argument, namely what the state of the economy is today. Is it really so bad, was it so bad in the last quarter of 2019, as you present them? You know the credibility of an economy is measured in many ways. Some people are more subjective. The economic confidence indicator is a measure of how the market itself and consumers perceive the country's economic path. I do not need to tell you how the economic confidence index has escalated since the elections. But there is also a very objective measure of comparison of economic performance. And that is no other than how the markets value the course of the Greek economy, because the markets are the ones that lend us, they will continue to lend us and must lend us at a reasonable interest rate so that we can refinance a very large public debt that I am passing naturally on to your own days. So let's go see, Mr. Tsipras, when you've been borrowed last time at a ten-year rate at the cost of borrowing. It was 3.9% at 12-2019. Greek democracy in conditions of pandemic, major economic crisis, was borrowed at a rate of 1.57%. You've had 3.9% and we've had 1.57%! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is the best answer to your claims about the course of the Greek economy. Of course, because we are not alone in this world, but we are acting within a regime of an organised economic community that is not from the Eurozone, I deserve to read to you the original text in English from the Eurogroup conclusions of 11 June 2020. ‘We come forward the Greek authorities for the quick and decisive policy response both in confronting the outbreak of the virus and in taking the necessssary economic and financial support measures’. So what does Eurogroup say to us? That we also managed well in the management of the pandemic, which, as we have already discussed, was about self-evident, we did nothing special, we simply did what we had to do, we followed the advice and directions of the other countries. Let me pass this, I think everyone has come to their conclusion as to whether the country in total has actually become involved in this effort. But the Eurogroup comes here and congratulates us on the extent of the economic reaction and the measures that we have taken. And you will obviously tell me what the Eurogroup is doing here now, we should be much more galantic, and we might be risking a conflict with Europe on this one. I will tell you that the support of the European Union and the credibility that the country has now been able to gain in Europe is a credibility that we believe in not only today but also in the long term and, of course, reflected in the fact that we have been able to obtain from the apparent major financial support package a very important sum that will finance the development path of the Greek economy, but not this year, Mr Tsipras, but from 2021 onwards. So the notorious recession, which you are referring to, is not a recession, Mr Tsipras, is a development. The Greek economy developed 1% in the fourth quarter of 2019 and in the first quarter of 2020, Mr. Tsipras as magically and against your forecasts the Greek economy shrank only 0.9%. How much was the average dwindling in the rest of the eurozone, Mr Tsipras? How old was he? You know that? How old was he? It was 3.6%, in other words, four times less shrinking, Mr. Tsipras, and you are talking here about remission of New Democracy and remission of Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What does that mean? It means in very simple terms, Mr Tsipras, that the Greek economy had entered 2020 at a great growth moment, that the performance of the Greek economy in the first two months of 2020 was very high, far better than the average of the euro area and, of course, that the Greek economy at least in March 2020 was hit less than the rest of Europe. That is the reality and cannot be called into question. And today, many international houses are rushing to revise their predictions, which were talking about a Greek economy that will be hit much more than the European average, seeing that we are doing well not only in dealing with pandemic, but also in limiting the economic impact of this unprecedented health crisis. And can I tell you something? I did not intend to go into this debate, but at some point it is good, Mr Tsipras, to make an overall account now that we have all the information at our disposal, exactly what has happened in your last four years. You ruled four and a half years, in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and half 2019. Can we see what happened these four years from 2015 to 2018, where you were exclusively responsible for managing the economy? What happened, Mr. Tsipras, these four years? What has been the overall rate of growth of the Greek economy over the last four years? Do you know him? Can your people advise you here a little? Who were those four years? I'm not just talking about 2015. I'm talking about the four years. Do you have him, Mr. Tsipras? I'll tell you what. It was 0.7% when the average in the European Union was 2.3%, that is, the lowest rate of growth in Europe! These are your accomplishments! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And then you come and you advertise your own economic performance. But, in any case, I think that all of this belongs to a certain extent to the past, they have also been judged in the July elections. Let us talk more about today and tomorrow, and all that still needs to be done in the Greek economy. What have we been doing since the crisis broke out? It is good to remind the Greek citizens again in this Chamber. With the outbreak of the health crisis, we immediately shielded the health system with 280 million. We gave an exceptional allowance, a gift, a reward, a reward, as you say, to all workers in the National Health System, which cost us some 90 million. We exploited donations. We made four thousand three hundred recruits of nurses and doctors. We doubled intensive beds within a very short period of time. We have exceeded the thousands and we have already launched a plan so that we can reach the European average in the next few months for beds in intensive care units. You handed us five hundred and sixty-five, Mr. Tsipras, you who have advertised the National Health System and your supposed interest in it. And we will be able to double these in a year. Eight hundred and fifty thousand businesses, two million workers were put in total under state protection. Dismissals have been prohibited and compensation of EUR 800 has been introduced to officials, professionals and EUR 600 to scientists. The State covered insurance contributions. We have legislated to reduce the rent. The repayment of all debts has been postponed. Unemployment benefits as well as those of a hundred and twenty thousand self-employed in the tourism sector were extended until September in the first phase. For businesses, the liquidity of enterprises is currently available, as you know, at the moment 7 billion from the Guarantee Fund to companies with the guarantee of 80% of the Greek State. And before that he ran the TPIX program. TEIX was indeed a programme that enabled banks to set bank criteria on the loan that they gave to businesses. The truth is that the banks at TEPIX were quite strict in the companies they funded - this is a reality - but TPIX II ran at a much faster rate than the corresponding TPIX had run for your own days. We will be very interested in the way in which the banks respond to the new programme of the Guarantee Fund. Over there I expect that they will not ask the firms for the same degree of collateral, as the state comes and guarantees most of the loan, and I believe that this programme will be directed towards the real economy. So, on matters relating to support for businesses, I see no significant differences between yours and our proposal. Of course, the repayable advance, which you have rushed so easily to deceive, is a programme from which today, Mr Tsipras, has benefited more than fifty thousand businesses. We have already announced that the programme will be strengthened and above EUR 2 billion. And since you may not have met on your own tour with businesses which have made use of this programme, I should like to mention a few examples of only business, small and larger, which have for the first time seen liquidity enhancement from the state budget: a company of agricultural products with only one worker in Elias took 4,000 euros. Another business with furnished rooms in Argolida took 6,500 euros. Greater businesses, such as a book and press distribution company in the Cyclades, who lost 110,000 euros in a turnover, took 60,000 euros. A paint company in Thessaloniki, which also had losses of more than 100,000 euros, received 75,000 euros. These are significant amounts, they are significant liquidity support for many companies. The second phase of the repayable advance will strengthen even more companies in need of it today. All of this is finally summed up in the amount we talked about. It is the funds, which you are talking about today from this step, that you are choosing, Mr Tsipras, to ignore. It is funds that have been given at the right time, neither forward nor backward, as you have written in your question. They were given the weight that each time requires so that there is a result, but there are reserves for the next moment. You have spoken a lot about the issues of the world of work - I will then talk about the 'COMPAN - WORK' programme - but I would also like to mention to the National Representation that support for business is not a support that comes without checks to comply with the new rules. Over the last three months, more than eighty thousand checks have been carried out by ELAS from the Directorate-General for Trade, by the Transparency Authority in enterprises, at workplaces. Our first objective is to protect workers, but also customers from irresponsible practices that expose them to unnecessary risks. For us the mandatory use of a mask, where necessary, the necessary distances, all measures will be strictly supervised by all the control mechanisms. It is a sign of respect and protection for our fellow people who work. And I will insist that these measures should be implemented, particularly in the tourism and focus sectors, with full compliance with the recommendations of experts. The state will still be too strict on the controls it will make on businesses and impose, where necessary, the appropriate fines. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of health adventure I have stressed that the burden of this crisis must be shared fairly, first of all, by the state, then by businesses and last of all by workers. In order to achieve this, however, it must be realistic. It must be realistic on its basis and dynamic in its implementation, it must correspond to the conditions of the real economy, but must also flexibly alter the data regularly with the strategic elements. And that is exactly what the 'Cooperation - WORK' programme is trying to do for employment. This programme is a co-operation of the state with the power of production. Its central priority is not to lose many jobs. There is no enterprise-free growth that creates new wealth, just as there are no businesses that promote without workers who are also with them. Work is a prerequisite for the growth of the economy. But at the same time it is an individual right that ensures social cohesion. Unemployment means above all injustice. So who in this Chamber today invokes social sensitivity must, above all, fight for work. This will be done if the suspension work is combined over a period of time with the strengthening of real employment on the basis of real demand. There is no restaurant or hotel that is faced with a very reduced turnover keeping all days active all its staff independent of its completeness. Without customers the costs will be bend the company by eventually sending workers to unemployment. Great demand in the opposite direction with a little staff would mean poor service and bad services. So these unprecedented conditions on the labour market require solutions that are realistic, bold and - I stress this - temporary to deal with this exceptional situation. This is exactly what it comes to serves the programme 'COMPANY - WORK'. By the end of October, companies that saw their turnover demolished and now have less work, will be able to adjust their working time accordingly. However, the latter will maintain almost the same wage and all their insurance rights, even for half the days of employment. The 'CONTROL', using the 'SURE' European programme, comes to cover this part of the difference in pay. Of course we have a fixed threshold, and that is no other than the basic salary, and of course we have the ban on redundancies for all those who are part of the programme. The firms which have been hit are therefore given the opportunity to stand on the road because they are exempted from part of the burden of wage costs. Workers on the other hand maintain their jobs. In other words, the government prefers to subsidise labour. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is our basic philosophical difference: instead of the padlocks, employment is being chosen. In order to save jobs, creates and exploits this system, the new programme we called 'SYN - WORK'. You know, Mr. Tsipras, where is this programme rooted? The European Social Democracy. Who was the first to apply it? It has been applied for the first time in Germany by a social-democratic government with great success. It is time for our critics to understand and understand that this government, a centre-right, liberal government, knows very well when the state must intervene to support its social role and when it must and can allow entrepreneurship to act creatively. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are opposed - I have told you several times, but you seem to still have the same tactic - a government which exists only in your fantasy world. This neoliberal government, which you allegedly are presenting in your speeches, simply does not exist, because this government, when it needed, supported the world of work, put money on the market and proved that at times of crisis the state must be present and exploited all the ammunition it has at its disposal. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will stick to the language of the truth. The welfare of the country was evidently affected by the passing of the virus. Yeah, this year we're going to have a recession, significant recession, while we're in a growth orbit. And yes, this summer will be a very different summer, which will require the mobilisation of all the forces of society, so that the good name of Greece becomes a title under which we will write the chapter "Regeneration of the economy". I'm opening a parentheses, Mr. Tsipras. Once again, you insist that the image of the citizens of the government and the country's overall course is the result of the media, which, as you said, we are slapping into state money, as if the campaign, which took place, was a waste of money. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I guess the same thing doesn't apply to the foreign press. We broke the foreign press in money, too? We gave ads to 'WALL STREET JOURNAL', 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'NEW YORK TIMES'? All those who are speaking in good words today about our country and who are making the connection between the effective response to the health crisis and the possibility of recovery of the Greek economy are also "financed" - in introductory form - by the Greek Government? No, Mr. Tsipras. They see the reality and reality is that the better one is facing the health crisis, the stronger the image of the country and the easier the return to a faster and more dynamic recovery. I have already told you what happened in the first quarter of 2020. And I would really like you to give me your interpretation of how it is possible for an economy, which, according to you, was getting worse than the rest of Europe, to be in the first quarter of 2020 with four times less recessions than the rest of Europe. The numbers are going well. You're a mechanic. Please explain to me how this is happening, how this can be done numerically, if the course of the economy in the first two months was not much better than the rest of Europe. How is it possible for us to have this recession, that Italy has a recession of 5.1%, that Spain 4.1%, Germany and France which were later hit and that of the coronary have a recession of 2.2% and 5.8% respectively? The coronary, ladies and gentlemen, may have temporarily cut off the course of the Greek economy. However, it did not hit the bases, those which established the trust of the partners, even before the pandemic took place, and which will soon also be framed by the new European funds proposed by the European Commission. You asked me to mention investments made in Greece over our own days. I will report to you four investments, which have been made in the past two months in the pandemic. Inside the pandemic two Greek start ups were purchased by very large foreign businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u5	I'm sorry, I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u6	Two Greek start ups were purchased for very significant amounts, new startups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u7	The sums tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u8	The sums? They are tens of millions for both of them. Significant capital has been transferred from abroad to a third undertaking. The problematic "FORTHNET" was also purchased from a significant capital abroad, thus saving jobs and giving a vote of confidence to the Greek economy. These are investments, which have been made in the past two months within the pandemic when few at European level have invested. So let me come to the European Commission's support programme a little bit now, as has been announced. You criticised us in this Chamber that we are completely absent from European developments, that we are not participating in the European events, that we are not calling for a great ambitious European programme, that we are not interested in obtaining guarantees, not loans, and that is exactly what we were asking for. The European Commission has come to the table and put a very ambitious programme of EUR 750 billion financed largely by joint loans, which is based much more on grants and less on borrowers and from which the country has received at least the original draft of the Committee on the 32 billion euros. All that you were accusing the government of supposedly not being able to achieve, Mr. Tsipras, by this government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At least I have to acknowledge that you welcomed this programme, it would be difficult for you to do something different. But here we have to point out three facts which are important. The first concerns the fact that this programme has not yet been formalised, the approval of the Council is required and we will have a difficult negotiation ahead of us. The second important element is that this programme concerns investment, which will start from 2021. When you ask us to spend money as if there is no money tomorrow in 2020, because we have received some money that is important that will fall into the Greek economy in 2021, you are getting apples with oranges, Mr. Tsipras. Another state budget and capacity for 2020, another development tool since 2021, which will first come to finance investments. You're confusing two concepts completely different. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You should know that after four and a half years of Prime Minister of the country. It's like you're telling us that the NSRF money goes into the state budget and we can do whatever we want. No, we can't do whatever we want this money, and we can't do whatever we want. Can I tell you something? This substantial amount - whatever the outcome, I hope we will finally reach 32 billion, will in any case be a very important sum - this government will not waste it, it will invest it to finance the transformation of the Greek economy and of the Greek society. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because this money, in any case, will be very important so that we can finance important actions, such as green development and transition to a low-carbon economy, the training of our workers, so that they can adapt to different conditions, to a labour market that changes continuously, we can still finance our basic infrastructure, environmental infrastructure, water and irrigation networks, things that we unfortunately have left behind, to finance the digital transformation of Greek society and the Greek state. I wonder sometimes - I see you and your ministers, who have managed the relevant portfolio - how difficult it was to make all of the obvious things that are being done today by the Ministry of Digital Reform, so that people can finally be served in an easy and digital manner. You didn't do anything about all this. You didn't do anything! You're the only one who's ever been involved in space. Seaweeds for silk ribbons! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You see that within the pandemic we have managed, without almost spending any money, to serve the citizens in a way that is credited to us as a whole and to make a jump of digital transition for the future. But we still have a lot of steps to take. Of course, today I am in a position, complementing the initiatives that we have already spoken about, to talk to you about four more new initiatives, which strengthen the existing programme that we have announced. The first has already been discussed by the two relevant ministers. The EMPLOYMENT Pact is being strengthened by nearly 200 million, so by the end of July, it will also cover 60% of the employers' contributions to the programme and, if necessary, this subsidy for employers' contributions will be extended for both August and September. We heard the market and spoke personally with many entrepreneurs and I was convinced that their request for the state to cover part of the employers' contributions, when they employ workers for 50% of their time, was a fair request. That is why we are coming today to make this correction to the 'Cooperation - WORK' programme and to cover a part of the employers' contributions. However, we are also coming to help with the payment of tax and social security obligations. So I can now announce that the debts of March and September, which have been suspended, will be a separate set that will be repaid in twelve interest-free instalments or twenty-four instalments of reduced-rate interest, and even since 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I can also announce today that we have decided with the financial staff to increase the number of instalments for income tax and HISPIA. Natural persons will be able to meet this year's obligations in eight months instead of three quarters, companies in eight instalments instead of six monthly and owners in six instead of five. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The aim is always to facilitate the liquidity of taxpayers. Fourthly, I am announcing today that we are coming back to a sense of rewarding the consistent taxpayers. Those who return this year's one-off obligations will have a 2% direct tax discount. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The aim is for all the debtors to pay less, but also for the smooth and timely flow of revenues to the public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with the same thoughts I have made at the beginning. We are now in the process that, from the health front, we are going to the fight for the economy. However, we remain - and I would like to stress this - in absolute care for our security. Our first concern, however, is the protection of work, the support of workers, the support of businesses, so that production machinery can be put back in motion again. In this way, we are giving the meaning of the national interest in time. We turn summer into a time when care is sown, so that in the autumn it will become the spring of hope and rise in the winter of 2020 and in the spring of 2021 the warm sun of growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u9	It is now called at the Step the Love Leader of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexis Tsipras for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Mitsotakis, make sure you wear sunglasses not to tan you from the warm sun of development coming! You have seen an image, which is a different country and under no circumstances - and you know that very well - does not correspond to the picture of the vast majority - not all companies. I will try briefly to respond - as quickly as I can - to some of the issues that you have raised. First of all, it is extremely difficult to be able to degrade the figures and figures, trying to refer to some other elements and to some other figures that do not draw conclusions. Because the only thing you were referring to, to present the picture that you supposedly did in the last quarter of 19 and the first of 1920s, i.e. before the coronary came, was the index of optimism, the PMI, on the markets, was this and the fact that the country, due to the credibility that has built four and a half years ago the previous government, due to the fact that it is regulated the debt, is outside the memoranda, because it has 37 billion in public funds, has access to the markets. But I'd like to warn you. Do not take too seriously just this point into account. There were other governments, similar to yours, the last example of the previous Argentine government, which, when it came up to power there, was a chaos, algae of all the financial markets for what was great that Makry was. And within less than a year, he brought the same results you brought. Hypersensitivity. And within much less time all those who celebrated, who were called ochana, singing ochanas to cross the market, kicked him out of the market again. So you can't answer the substance. And the essence is, you know, based on the economic theory, a country officially enters into recession when it is for two consecutive quarters at a negative rate of growth. You are making an effort here, which, of course, is common to this attempt on your side, the so-called Greek statisticals. You invented them when you left the country, in 2010, in 2009 with 15% deficit and told us that we were within the Stability Pact. Greek statistics and then, Greek statistics and now. And you're telling us we had growth in the last quarter of 2019. I repeat that I gave you the data for two consecutive quarters from quarter to quarter with negative growth rates:-0.7 and -1.7 in the first quarter of 2019. Here's the picture. I'll testify her to see her and admire her. It is a chart showing the progress of GDP in volume terms with a calendar correction from 2010 to 2020. And the picture is that in 2010-2015 we made a huge belly. You ruled again. You yourself had the same financial staff with the terrible achievements that the country lost 25% of its GDP. You ruled then. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The country started in the second quarter of 2016 to have a development path. There's the curve. And now down again is the curve with you again. [[At this point President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What indicators do you want us to take outside the PMI, which, in any case, is also an indicator that is volatile because it can be based not on real events, but on psychology, which is changing rapidly, unfortunately. I'm not happy about that. Beyond GDP, do you want to see the industrial output index, which dropped 2.2% compared with an increase of 2.7% in 2019? Do you want to see the exports? Do you want to see the dues you had made us crazy with your dues? In December, it was 1,3 billion euros, in January, 1.4 billion, in February, 1.5 billion euros, 1.8 billion euros in March. What indicators do you want us to take, in addition to the sense each one of you has, when he comes to the market, when he talks to businesspeople not only of tourism, focus businessmen, that the economy has entered a deep orbit of recession before the coronary. You referred here to the conclusions of the Eurogroup and you give me the opportunity to say that these conclusions you signed, Mr Staikora, are conclusions that apart from, of course, the good words usually spoken by the Eurogroup, it said in 2010, 2015 very good words, when the economy went to Nadir and when we reached 28% well, they said that we are going and now the ESS is coming back and saying the mistakes he made in the programmes. So what does the Eurogroup's decision say beyond that? It says two - three things, which I would like to highlight. He says you're committed to a surplus in 2021. Did you sign that? Did you sign it? Did you accept that? So we're going to have a surplus in 2021? Can I read it to you? ‘The updated forecast of the European institutions impacts the primary balance to Turn to a deficit in 2020, below returning to a surplus in 2021’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u11	The next sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u12	For the Eurogroup statement on 16 March 2020, only the proposal says. That's what he says. Read it, Mr. Stakoura. In any case, because we have experience of the way the institutions negotiate, I tell you... Give me a minute, because I have a second point to tell you. I'll give it to you. Because we have the feeling, the experience of what the institutions do, the institutions here have set up a sprout, which will tell you that we committed ourselves to surpluses in 2021. And the second - and I give it to you, it is all yours - which says in the last paragraph that it commits you to lifting first home protection at the end of July 2020. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Here, take it. It's yours. In other words, in the midst of a crisis, a deep economic crisis, you are committed to coming back to surpluses in 2021 and you are committed to lifting the protection of first residence on 1 August 2020. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If you brought them here to celebrate this paper here, the Eurogroup decision that was adopted yesterday, not only to celebrate is not, but to deepen our minds about what is going to happen, what comes in as well as about protecting the first home and about other issues. Do you know what it means to return to surpluses when you say we have 4.7% deficit? [[Noise in the Chamber]] You say it for 2020! Okay, let's read it, it's okay, we're having a dialogue here alive, that's the nicest House. Does it mean, then, when you anticipate 4.7% deficit - perhaps greater - that we need to have how much growth to cover it from 2020 to 2021 to go to surpluses? It means, to tell the ordinary citizens who are following us, that you will sooner or later find yourself in a negotiation, at the time we will have a deep recession, about how great the GDP of the fiscal austerity measures you will bring back to the Greek people - because this is your reserve, and this is your custom, bringing measures of austerity to the Greek people - in April 2021 - I say, if not earlier - when you are discussing the budget in the medium term or in December 2020, when you are discussing the budget. That's the picture! Why do you look good on her? Unless you are planning to escape, get away from it, so you can enjoy it, as everyone around you in Maximos - from what I understand and from what various media are saying, it is yours - to go to elections before you get the news of both the measures and the recession and the packages and unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u13	Afraid of the elections!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u14	Go, go and see what's wrong with you! See what's wrong with you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All those who support you today, because you are Moses and saved us from the pandemic, as soon as you do this anointed step, you will also see the polls and indicators and indicators of PMI and market indicators, you will see what will be the Greek people's answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u15	You're scoring the markets!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u16	Let's go down. You say to me: 'How do you talk to small and medium-sized business, because you increased VAT?' We have increased VAT, indeed I have said it publicly that the country has managed to get out of the crisis, to recover credibility, to strengthen public revenue, to regulate public debt to a large extent, thanks to the fact that it has 'blocked' the middle-class, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, those unfortunately - because this is a remnant of the past - in the real economy they pay taxes and not those who make offshore their money abroad and we cannot tax them. The aim, however, was national, because we had an obligation to an agreement - you had no better in terms of the primary surplus than you had agreed with Mr Samaras - was a national target. So now, what's the target? Why isn't it reduced? When we came out of the memorials, we returned to these people, to those who "backed". You didn't say that. So last year we gave the opportunity to drop the value added tax on the focus from 24% to 13%. When we did this last year, precisely because it was tight with the budgetary margins and we did not want to be derailed, we did leave coffee out. Yes, that's true! And what did you guys do last year? You tabled a proposal for a law and said 'permanent reduction'. Permanently, we didn't have a coronary. Are you coming now that we have a coronary and the big one - how can I say it? - It is your fault to these people that you were asking for last year and you tabled a proposal for a law to become permanent to bring it as an emergency for the next months that the pandemic lasts, that is, to drop coffee and not alcohol. And you've been saying for five months. And the shopkeepers themselves go out and say "that's embarrassing," I didn't say so, the GSE President said so. And you're telling me if I'm gonna be able to discuss with them and whether I'm going to claim? Yes, we believe that now - and you must do it, Mr Mitsotakis! - you need to charge the value added tax by way of an exceptional 6% for the focus and reduce the tax advance to 50% on a permanent basis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, you have also presented a false picture of the development indicators, but it is not - I repeat - the first time you have done that. I would like to tell you that you are doing the same - Greek statistics - and in relation to unemployment. You told us that unemployment did not increase in March, and you told us that while the 'ERGANI' recorded the worst five months in January - May this year, as well as the worst of May of all times since 2001. In five months, new jobs are two hundred and sixty thousand less than last year. And of course, how do you do that? With this trick, because you're great at tricks! Approximately ninety thousand jobseekers looking for work in March were renamed to economically inactive, apparently because it was estimated that there is no possibility of finding work in the middle of a pandemic and so they went out of calculation. Such alchemys are doing to present a plating image, and unfortunately the image that currently exists in the Greek economy, in the real economy, in the market is a tragic picture. I put the balance of recruitment-dismissal flows from 2001 to 2020 in the Minutes and you will see that it is the lowest from 2001. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course, the big issue for us is the redundancies, which will come from redundancies, because those who do not join, those who work in business, are not even part of this little help you give them, that is, they are not part of the 'COOPERATION', they are not protected since October. Of course you have tried to tell us that you are also a social democrat. At the same time, how can you be a social democrat and constantly attempt an extreme policy against the interests of work? You know, it's hard to try because of the pandemic to create the picture that you suddenly loved the National Health System, when you told us a few months ago in the budget, that we left-wing, the progressive when you brought the bill on public-private partnerships to hospitals. We should be creeping out. Suddenly you became a friend of the public health system! Your resignation, of course, is a fact that has its history in relation to the public health system and the severance of resources from it, but nothing has to do with the support of the ESS. And I want to tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, whatever you're trying to do, you have a difficulty. The difficulty is that you are trying to inspire a policy that does not belong to you ideologically. I remember what the Troikas once told us, 'you don't have the property of the programme', and we said 'yes, we don't have the property of the Memorandum programs', because they were neoliberal projects. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you cannot now pretend to own policies that support the public health system or the public space as a whole. And these policies now need society, and yes, these policies are progressive, they have a progressive figure. The Social Democratisation in Germany did indeed support insurance contributions with state subsidies, but it did not lead to a 20% reduction in wages - that has never been done! - So to go to 80% of the salary. This has not been done anywhere, and it is not social democratic policies, but it is not socially relevant, because regardless of whether anyone thinks he is right, left or central the crucial point is whether his policy is social at the end of the day. I'm coming, so you don't say I'm all negative from now on. You announced some measures here. One we knew. In my view, it is incomplete in relation to our proposal to support the insurance costs of businesses. We suggest 100%. You announced a second - it is considered positive - that the 2020 suspensions can go to 2021 in doses. If I understand correctly, that's what you announced. And it is considered positive because they do not have "leaf trees" businessmen, businessmen and they cannot pay this money when they do not have a turnover when they have no receipts. But I want to tell you two things. The first is this. There is a huge problem on the market right now. The problem is called cheques. How will it be covered? I was in Rhodes and I met a businessman who rents a small store in the old town -- there were dozens there, but one of them told me the pain of man, in desperation - with touristic goods. The rent was 3,000 euros! The reduction you made was a drop in the ocean and you charged it to the owners, you did not pay it. He didn't pay the state. So this man bought Flevaris stock before the coronary and he had checks that expire now, Juni. What's he gonna do? He had neither revenue in March nor in April nor in May nor in June nor in July. How will he pay? These people are in despair. You made an extension of seventy-five days. What are those seventy-five days? So the problem comes back. Will you decide to go the checks later, as you now decide on suspending payments? Will you sit down with the bankers who have at last been, so many years, recapitalising the banks with the money of Greek taxpayers, asking them to take some of the blame too? What about the rents? It'll stop sometime even this 40% discount. Finally, the third measure you announced was the 2% tax rebate on them will pay a one-off fee. Isn't that what you said? And 1% and 0.5%, any tax discount is good, but who does that benefit? I'm not gonna stand by the fact that this is a small number. It is because of the person who has the financial capacity to go to pay a one-off. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Who has the financial capacity to go to pay one-off? The one who's got money on his booze, not the businessman who's fighting today, and he can't handle it. So this also favours the holders and the holders, and it also favours those who favoured you when you came to the government, by reducing the tax on profits. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to close. At the heart of the New Democracy policy - it is not today with Mr Mitsotakis - there is always a blurred promise and supposedly large foreign investment from which we expect a great deal, but it usually comes a little, because that is what I have caused you to say. I'm sorry, but the result of almost a year of governance when you told us that you were going to bring an investment explosion, that you were going to get bulldozers into the Greek, was that you were up here and told us that two startups were sold. Okay, excuse me. Well done, congratulations. That's it, give two startups? I don't underestimate it, but it's not that investment explosion you were bringing. So when some investments come - because I do not want to underestimate that they may come and will perhaps come later - these usually with your policy are to buy cheaply a public asset and not, for example, to make a clean production investment, a new factory, a new industry. On the pretext of attracting investment, you are also moving towards a policy of deregulation of labour relations and wage cuts. The environmental protection institutions are leaving in the middle to speed up investments, while the spatial planning, the register, the forest maps, is still pending at the same time as the welfare state is being devalued to make a profit to these supposedly large investors. In relation to taxation, the most powerful people have always paid taxes on your day on a voluntary basis at the expense of many employees in this country and some Greeks have a record record on offshore according to a study by the Commission, not with SYRIZA data. All this has happened over your days, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you want to represent the Social Democrats. Mrs. Gennamas isn't here, she'd start shouting. We all want to be the Social Democrats at the end of the day. We want to present what we are and are left, we are progressive, we are democrats and we have a socially sound policy, the policy of social solidarity. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would therefore like to say that you have never brought sustainable development while you have been ruling, but beyond the bankruptcy and the crisis that we have experienced you have reduced the income of many and have disappeared the middle class without a plan. We, on the other hand - and I close with this - have put the foundations not only to get the country out of the memoranda and regulate the debt, but also for a new developmental model under the national development strategy that we have developed, a model based on the quality of human resources and on the value of work to produce high-value products and services, a model based on dynamic small and medium-sized and larger productive enterprises that integrate innovation and research elements in cooperation with the scientific and research community. Well, now you also criticised us, we founded the Ministry of Digital Policy, when you were the responsible Minister of Digital Governance, and you left all the works of e-government frozen and "ZEEZIS", you yourself. We founded the Ministry, we proceeded with projects and I see that the new Minister on these tracks is indeed based, but not on telling us that you did it. We have guided the NRP resources and financial instruments, because we have managed to have an absorbance of the NRP, for which we have congratulated from this Step in Parliament, from Junker, the President of the Commission, when your own governments have been in the past - and that is why we fear what will happen to the EUR 23 billion - they could not absorb resources. We proceeded with a financial, critical, development Bank tool. Take advantage of it. We tabled before the European elections and then national elections - we did not vote for it - a micro-credit law, through the Development Bank, so that only with a business plan can every businessman - it will be able to prove that he will put that money in his work - to get up to EUR 25 000. It would be soothing for these people. We support a model of production that respects the environment and exploits the development potential, which offers sustainable, a model that sets common rules for everyone, protects the weak, supports labour, in short, a sustainable social model, a model that we have constantly gained, after our decommissioning from the memoranda, has shared it fairly and in the interests of the citizens. You, whatever you say to us today, are sure that you are clashing with a reality that will become an avalanche day after day. In fact, Mr. Mitsotakis, you don't deserve what you do with the media. It's not worth it. Why don't you bring to the House, not just the list of pearls come out, how much you've given. Why don't you bring it? It's public money. Go out and say: 'We have given so much there, so much there' and on what criteria. Why don't you come and say? What are you afraid of? There is the law of 'HUMANY' which you are effectively abolishing in this way. It was a conquest for our democracy that law. Some things are conquests to go ahead. So why don't you come and tell us? I hope, at the end of the day, that you will be able to respond to these issues and make them public. But in any case, I close with it, no matter how much you try to hide the reality behind the media that shape an image, sometimes, just because life and reality are very stubborn, that's not enough. That is why I call on you at the very last moment, even, to change your strategy, to listen to the problems of the people of entrepreneurship and to change your strategy. To support the real economy, to support businesses and to support the work, so that we do not find ourselves in the unpleasant position as a place, as a society, as a country, to see what we have achieved in five years, to be lost in just five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u17	The Prime Minister now has the floor, Mr Mitsotakis, for his own denology, which he will do from his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u18	Let me begin with the issue of micro-credits. Indeed, the Government has received from you a draft law on micro-credits, which we update and put to the vote at the National Representation. We consider it extremely important for this institution to function under the supervision of the Bank of Greece, so that small businessmen, self-employed, can have access to up to EUR 25 000, without the heavy bureaucratic procedures and, above all, without the guarantees that the banking system usually entails inevitably. The truth is that, from the experiences of other countries, we are well aware that the rate of repayment of these loans is extremely high, despite the fact that there are no guarantees and, in fact, a vote of confidence in our fellow citizens, who were largely excluded from the banking system, will have the possibility of having even a small funding. Of course, the fact that this bill has not been passed, I imagine, is part of your overall logic: "We have not been able to make it". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Four and a half years you've been ruling and everything that this government does is coming and saying, "But we wanted to do it, but unfortunately we didn't have time to do it." I come now, without going into detail, throughout this whole debate, which I find it difficult to see technically, namely what happened in the fourth quarter of 2019, whether or not it was in recession. I will add just one point, Mr Tsipras, which I did not mention in my protagonism. The reason why the fourth quarter of 2018 was a good fourth quarter was precisely because you chose then to give a social dividend - well you did and we supported you back then - and you gave the social dividend on Christmas, 2018, and obviously supported the consumption of 2018. What happened in 2019, Mr. Tsipras? Can I freshen your memory? This amount, which was due in December 2019, you shared in May 2019 bass and rescue your election defeat. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So he was raised in the quarter and, unfortunately, they were missing this money from the economy in the fourth quarter. It is therefore important to remember in this country the great convenience with which you have tried in the past and in the face of the spectrum of the apparent electoral defeat, to buy out the consciences of Greek citizens. Of course, it did not help you too much as within a month we recorded four answering election defeats and now you were in the chairs of the Opposition. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Interesting, Mr. Tsipras, your report to Argentina. You did not like us at one time and said, "What a shame Greece is not Argentina"? Do I remember you well? Didn't you say that? Have you forgotten now? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine that one of your economists will be able to advise you and tell you that the crisis in Argentina was a currency exchange crisis and Greece will never face such a problem, because fortunately it has succeeded and remained in the euro, despite the desperate efforts of some of your colleagues to leave the eurozone in the disastrous first half of 2015. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, you have a big problem in Parliament every time you choose to table something in the Minutes. You do it all the time and I wonder why. Do your partners give it to you? Do you not read the entire texts you deposit? Are you consciously distorting reality and want to give other impressions? So let us see exactly the text you have tabled. It reads here: "Confidence Mr. Tsipras" in the Minutes of Parliament. So let's see exactly what the Eurogroup said, which you referred to, and you claimed that the country was committed, that's what you said, to primary surpluses of 3.5% for 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u19	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u20	That he committed. So I read: "The updated fortress of the European institutions...". The forecasts therefore estimate that we will return to surplus in 2021. They think we'll be back. But - do not rush, Mr Barcas - there is another proposal. Let me read it to you: "We recall in this contact the Eurogroup state of 16 March 2020 where we are appointed that...automatic revenue shortfalls and unemployment benefit increments from the drop in economic activity will not apply comparison with the applied fiscal rules, targets and requirements."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u21	Until when?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u22	The Eurogroup itself comes along and says that 'we confirm that this rule, if necessary, will not apply'. And you come here and lie once more!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u23	Until when? Does it say when?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u24	And then you wonder why the whole world is lying to you! You're a liar, Mr. Kotzias. You're lying to your colleagues too. Shame on you, Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u25	Until when does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u26	You're still undetected! Whether you should fire your partners, who are giving you these documents here to testify, or consciously once again, as you have done many times, you are distorting reality by misleading the National Representation and lying to the MPs and the Greek people. I'm sorry! I am returning to the Minutes this document, which Mr Tsipras has tabled, so that everyone knows what really happened in the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u27	Does it say when it will stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u28	Next time, Mr. Tsipras, stay away from documents deposited. I think it's at least the fourth time you've been caught lying about documents, which you yourself have testified.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u29	Does it say when it will stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u30	Okay, cool. I now come to a number of issues which you have raised. You spoke about investment, and there I was really involved, because on the one hand you said that there is a misplaced investment, and on the other hand you said: 'but now that investments are coming, they come because you have legislation that is unworkable and we will attract investment in this way'. Look, this government has attracted investment to its central policy. In order to attract investment, we obviously need a good overall picture of the country, a good macroeconomic climate. We need tax reductions, simplification of bureaucracy, simplification of environmental legislation with environmental protection, and at the same time an opportunity to attract investment, safeguarding key labour rights and protecting the world of work. Our first concern was, it is and will be the reduction of unemployment and the creation of well-paid jobs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have referred to some investments, indicatively, small, because they are related to the ecosystem of new entrepreneurship, which is fortunately developing and flourishing in our country. If you want big investments, I have so many more to tell you. At least 500 million were invested in five important Greek hotels in September 2019. CISCO announced the creation of a new Big Data Centre in Thessaloniki. PFIZER's the same thing. Large colossians who choose to come to invest in the country and create what? Jobs. Why do they see what? Because, on the one hand, they see an excellent workforce, because fortunately our public universities, despite their problems, continue to produce excellent graduates, who can be exploited and entitled to have good jobs and good wages, and on the other hand, they see a government that has a rapid improvement in the entrepreneurial environment, creates conditions of macroeconomic stability, improves, as much as it bothers you - and it should not disturb you, Mr Tsipras - the image of the country abroad. It is a national conquest for the country that today has universal recognition of the way it has faced the pandemic. I said, the country, not the government. First of all, the Greek citizens, who complied with the suggestions of experts. It is a conquest for the country and you and your executives are still making a misery, a distress, a discomfort about what has been done, as if it is not a whole country, as if it is not a dowry as a whole of society and it is just a dowry of the government. I would like to come back to this whole debate, which you are constantly recycled, on sustainable development that protects the environment and does not allow big interests to exercise an environmental policy. It's a rhetoric, which comes from the past. I wonder, however, whether the government's flagship initiatives in relation to the transition to a low-emission economy have not said a word. You have not said a word about the fact that this government has taken the bold initiative to close all the lignite plants, except one in the Cozani area and one in the Megalopolis area. You have not said a word on this matter. An emblematic initiative, which has been recognised internationally as a bold move. And you have not said a word about the fact that we have succeeded and secured from the Fair Transfer Fund major resources, which will reach 2 billion euros, so that we can finance this transition, create other jobs, specifically transform Western Macedonia into an innovation centre, renewable energy, sustainable eco-tourism, sustainable development. Why? Why do you close your eyes to some interests and some of his pathogens yesterday? This means essential, real sustainable development policy that emphasises the circular economy and not sticking to stereotypes of the past, which have no place in Greece 2020. I tried to analyse your program, "We stay upright 1", which then became "We stay upright 2", and I imagine that very soon it will be "We stay upright 3", because in fact all you do is every time the government comes in to recruit additional ammunition, you come and say: "Very well, but give it more". Whatever we do, give more. If we did twice, you'd think we'd give it four times as much. Our basic philosophy, however, - and I do not think it is wrong in principle - is not so different. What came this government and did? He came and said, "I take over the cost of private business payroll" and did so very quickly. I understand that's what surprised you. It is not something that you expected from a neoliberal government, which does not protect the world of work! This government came and extended unemployment benefits. Yeah, what should we do? It conflicts with the reality, which you want to build for an irreversible government, which only cares for the interests of the big and the trains. This government came, yes, and practically supported the National Health System, with many recruitments, with the support of four thousand three hundred two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u31	Not permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u32	I am personally committed that almost all will have permanent characteristics. We supported the National Health System. And an answer from you and the recent ministers who managed this portfolio in the past. Why did you deliver us five hundred sixty-five intensive beds, you who were so interested in the National Health System, and you were tolerating this terrible practice?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u33	How much should we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u34	Not only now, but also in the past, should we need political intervention to find a bed in the intensive, was that social policy, Mr Tsipras? Is that something that defended the interests of the people and the weakest Greeks? And, of course, you were not here - you chose once again to speak for yourself in the debate on education - and you did not answer the main argument. Why are you fighting with so much rabies to strengthen public education and the standards and experimental schools, which are directed primarily at children whose parents are unable to send them to private education, an institution that is primarily aimed at the poor but, most importantly, highly gifted Greeks? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All of this, which we do, "the irreversible neoliberal elites government!", come and clash with your central account. And then you wonder why the so-called space of the political centre, the middle space, has been politically occupied by the New Democracy and you wonder why any openings you make in Central Left, in social democracy, are actually in a vacuum. But, you know, Mr. Tsipras, we are all finally judged for our policies. And if this government today has a recognition from Greek society - and I think this is something, which is undeniable - it has been recognised, because it does more than it says and because it is interested in the entire Greek society, without discrimination and at the time of crisis it first turns its eyes to the weakest. I told you again in this Chamber that when we chose the horizontal subsidisation of work in the private sector, we did so with a logic that was almost - I repeat the term that I used - socialist. Yes, you had proposed a payroll rate or a full salary rate, because not twice the wage. Expenses are for you, you can say whatever you want. We said no. And the 5,000 euro employee and the 600 euro employee will get the same amount. In this way we supported the weakest of those who had higher wages. You have presented a tragic situation in the economy. Mr. Tsipras, do you realize the whole planet has been going through the biggest economic crisis since the '30s? The debate that took place in the fourth quarter of 2019, but who said that the situation in the economy is good today? The situation is very difficult. We are facing an unprecedented crisis. The crisis is global. I imagine you are not claiming - you still did not say this today - that this crisis is a crisis of Mitsotakis and New Democracy. You don't say that, I guess, that. It is a global symmetrical crisis, which concerns everyone, and we will all finally be judged on how much less painful this crisis will be and how quickly the recovery that will follow it will be. This is the measure of our success. We don't know that yet. I imagine that all of us in this Chamber hope that the crisis will be as short as possible, as painful as possible and that the recovery will come as soon as possible. But today we are facing an extremely difficult situation. So by glazing the reality of the economy today, you don't tell the world anything new. The world doesn't know today is difficult? But to charge this situation to the government when we are faced with a great pandemic on the one hand and, on the other, when this government quickly put a lot of money on the table and is willing to add even more depending on the development of the crisis, I regret, Mr Tsipras, that is something that is not just wrong with the government, I think it is wrong for you too and ultimately unfair to common sense. And I'm closing up with a reference to your nightmare, because that's how I personally take it. You sometimes give the impression that you're waking a cathedro at night and saying: "Outrages! What if elections are held!” and this panic is diffusible to you and your strains. Calm down, Mr. Tsipras. I can restore the tranquility of your sleep and make sure you go on vacation in the summer! There will be no elections before the end of the four-year period. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you may not have that concern and you and your executives. The country does not need elections at all. The government has political capital that it intends to invest. The central core of government policy on the need for this country to be transformed through a large wave of reforms has not changed. Some partial adjustments to our plan will obviously be made and we hope and hope that we can have additional important funds available to us from the Recovery Fund in order to be able to finance this great transformation that Greek society so needs. So you can take your vacation comfortably and we can all rendezvous with an election date in 2023. Until then, you have three more years in the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. We'll take a few minutes to prepare the room for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at number 22/11/27-2020 on a topical and urgent question from Members of the Radical Left Group. Andreas Xanthi, Andreas Michalidis, Paul Pavlos Polakis, Athanasios (Sakis) Papadopoulos, Nikolaos Igoumenides, Irene - Helen Agathopoulou, Alexandros Meikopoulou, Eleftherios Avramakis, Athanasios (Nas) Athanasios, Tryphoon Alexiadis, Ioannis Amanatidis, Athanasias, Athanasias, Anagnostoulou, Evangelos Arachovilis, Theodoris, Aridaris, Alexandros - Christos Ayonitis, Ephesias Amirakis, Kanthioulis Koloumanis, Nikos Velosilias (Virissiadis), Nicosiasiasiasias, Nikos Evannis Vasilissiou, Nicoulakis, Nicosssiasiasiasiasiasias (Vis), Vasilisilisilios Vasilios, Vasilisilisilios, Christos, Vassiou, Vasssiou, Christos, Christouros, Christos, Christos, Christos, Christordakis, Christordakis, Christordakis, Gelooulisiosiosiosiosiassssssiasiasiasssssiasiasiasiasiasiasiassiasiasias, Greeceis, Greece, Greeceis, Greece, Greece, Greece. In order to proceed properly, you need to know the following. Mr. Xanthos, as the first questioner, has ten minutes of prototypeism and five minutes of dentistry, Mr. Michaelides, Mr. Paulakis, Mr. Papadopoulos and Mr. Igoumenides five minutes of protology and three minutes of dentology. Any of the people I said wanted to use his dentistry at first just won't speak for a second time. Mrs Agathopoulos and Mr. Meikopoulou have three minutes of protology and two minutes of denology. That applies to them too, that is, if they want to speak for five minutes, they will not have a second speech. The Minister has twenty minutes protology, ten minutes dentology and five minutes tritology. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman is Mr Balafas, he has 12 minutes of protology, six minutes of denology, and if it takes three minutes of tritology. In other words, after the seconds, as you can see, only Mr Balafas and the Minister speak for six minutes of prototypes have the parliamentary representatives of the parties. We'll go like this. SYRIZA's seven will talk, Mr Balafas will talk next, because otherwise he won't come out. Parliamentary representatives of the parties will speak at any time, i.e. Mrs Rapt, Mr Lambroulis, etc. And then, of course, from the seven and Mr Balafas will be spoken by the Minister, Mr. Kikilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u37	Shouldn't we listen to the minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u38	It doesn't come out otherwise, because at the end of the day you'll be talking. You can't speak last. There has been a consultation and because the Minister at some point has to leave - we are talking about two hours later - to present the next steps of health, Mr Contozamanis will replace him. We can get started. The reason is the first questioner, the MP of Rethymnon Law of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u39	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we felt it necessary to have this generalised debate on the occasion of the topical question, in an area which has been very concerned with public opinion, public debate, health system people and, of course, society. We think it is necessary to have this debate, because our appreciation and our sense are, of course, that we have had a mild course of pandemic in the country and avoided a health tragedy, but everything was not done properly, in good time, efficiently, without errors, without oligopolisticism and without impoverishment in the operations. That is why we considered our obligation to present this very detailed topical question, which we have raised a great many issues and which I obviously do not have the time to discuss very much. The security period that Lockdown provided is over. It is right to restart the economy and society. This involves risk, and especially now the hard ones are starting. The difficulties for the economy, for businesses, for workers and for the health system are beginning, because this is also returning from the fairly safe phase of the compression of its regular operation and, of course, the difficult starts for the government as well. So this period of euphoria, complacency and - by some - arrogant ends. The debate is how we can prevent a large and deep-seated cycle of recession, lock-ups, unemployment and poverty in our country and - in the part that we are talking about - how we make use of time to invest in a permanent and stable form in the public health system, which everyone now swears in its value and which everyone, even lately, understands how important it is for the social cohesion and dignity of the people in our country and how important the state structures of the National Health System are. Because we permanently remember this resistance when the Prime Minister spoke, leading officials of the New Democracy, who always said "another state and state". State structures, therefore, were the ones that lifted all the weight and their people, in fact with great discomfort, contributed to having this good course. So now that politics begins and has the dominant role and gradually retreats the role of science, just now there is a need to discuss different political plans. Because there are different political plans. And now there is a lack of political will and ideology and a lack of political will, in our view. And that is the key point of criticism, the lack of political will to take advantage of this great crisis as an opportunity to invest and shield the National Health System in the narrow sense, namely the public structures offered by health services and public health services, namely those dealing with prevention, epidemiological awareness, intervention and prevention of health risks. So this is our main criticism. We have very detailed sections relating to human resources, system financing, primary care and its inactive role in the previous phase - this must be corrected in the face of the potential for a second endemic wave - mental health, vulnerable populations, diagnostics, public health services, system infrastructure, transparency in the management of commissions of extraordinary financing, recruitment, etc., which has not been and which has not accepted the proposal we have tabled since the first day: the Intergroup, in front of the National Delegation, everything to control, public accountability and trust in people that this pandemic will not be exploited as an opportunity for self-determination and targeting. And, of course, a very critical peak is that of the international dimension of the crisis and the need for our country to support practical initiatives developed by institutions, by the World Health Organisation, by scientists, who say that new products relating to pandemic and the new coronary, i.e. vaccines, medicines, diagnostic tests, medical devices must be public. Our country is lacking there and we will be discussing it next week on the occasion of a timely question. I heard the Prime Minister before. We were told that his government - he has said so publicly and irresponsiblely - and that what this government has done in five weeks had not become decades in the health system. This is offensive, not to Civicism, offensive to the intelligence of people and to the political system. I didn't hear it, thank God, say it again today. I hope I don't hear it from you. You know very well - and this is our difference - that you under pressure from the pandemic and without there being a political plan of this type, have had to go ahead, above all, with recruitment of contractors - this has to be understood - by taking of course a ready mechanism from us with transparent lists of subsidiary doctors, nurses and other health care that could be activated in a very short time to be hired. There wasn't that mechanism. We made it precisely because we also wanted to use the ancillary contracts to meet urgent needs in the system. That was all you've done and, of course, that you've activated more intensive therapy beds. He forgot to tell us before that we received more than a hundred less beds than he said that we delivered and, of course, that we proclaimed all the empty organic positions - and they were covered - of the doctors of the ESS who served in ITH, MEN and MAF throughout the country. It was a hundred and ninety-two, actually. And so the pandemic found us with more beds and more staffing and, therefore, greater durability of this very sensitive field, where our country is indeed lagging behind from the establishment of the ESS and we are on the average of Europe, and that is where we need to be converging. And, of course, you know very well - and you yourself, Mr Minister - that it is already beginning to call into question, when we come back from the informal lockdown that has been in the ERR and when we come back to the operation of coronary units, heart surgery and so on. Mrs Kotanidou, which you have chosen and head of the team of experts who will propose to you how this intervention and her organization will take place in a recent interview with "Kathimerini", says it: "In order to ensure the new IF beds, but even some of the beds that were in place before the pandemic, it is undeniable that we need immediately, namely today, recruitment of medical staff, which, however, will not leave as soon as they are trained." That's what Mrs. Cotanidou says. What does that mean? That it is not guaranteed and that it needs planning and, above all, permanent intervention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll try to shorten up. There were, therefore, critical interventions both at the ICMs and at the ICMs and at the primary care at the EAW - we discussed yesterday a lot about the aerospace - and in the laboratories which have been exploited at the present time, and in particular the CSR laboratory and mental health and the emergency staff recruitment mechanism and others, which had shielded the health system and found it upright, functional, accessible to everyone. And that's very important. So - and this has been proven with ELSTAT's elements - the health inequalities in the country, which had taken an uncontrolled orbit in the first five years of the crisis and the Memorandum were reduced. The health inequalities have been reduced, ELSTAT says that, precisely because all these interventions have been taken together. That is the core of our policy and, precisely, that is what we consider to be the project today, not to allow the pandemic to trigger new types of economic, social and health inequalities both in our country and internationally. This is the distinct ideological starting point of the two political areas. You think that inequality is almost inherent to the present socio-economic system, it is about natural law of modern society and you very much despised of the advances and ideas of social redistribution. However, the poor cannot be reduced to whom the WHO is saying today that they are not vulnerable groups, only those with chronic diseases, who are vulnerable are also the poor against the pandemic, and that, in fact, this has also been proved in America - the Africans and Spanish-speakers have three and four times higher mortality rates, when they suffer from COVID -19 compared to the percentage they have in the population. In Chicago 30% are African-American and the African-American are 70% of the victims, those who died of a serious disease. So he is the core of social developments and sometimes social conflicts that exist at this time, especially in America. Our consent, therefore, to the good epidemiological and health strategy that has been followed both in the recommendations and in the expert's directives, cannot mean tolerance to errors, omissions, opaque manipulations and ideologies and, above all, cannot hide the different political plans. There is a progressive political plan that emphasises the need to support, on the occasion of the pandemic, not only for the needs of this phase, but also for the future, the public health system and its structures and a conservative, neoliberal cutting plan, which, after the pandemic has gone through - and it has already begun to be done by the Prime Minister - to restore the well-known debate, that we want other public-private relations, to give market space to private insurance companies and others. We have tabled proposals for what it means to us health shielding the system, what measures are to prevent and strengthen structures, especially in island and barren areas, which are the new needs - which have arisen from the pandemic - that have to be addressed. Apart from primary care, home care, community mental health services, the reorganization of public health services, school health, occupational medicine, environmental health, the emphasis on social workers, these are the major needs that have emerged from this crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Xanthi, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u41	I'm done. You have no alternative but to propose a serious plan. Just be content with the good picture of the pandemic and the deterrence, say, of an exponential increase in cases in our country. You do not believe the public health system, you do not have a vision of equality and universality, you are a political force that tolerates inequality in health, health inequality, you are intolerable against policies to support the public health system over time by the social state in redistribution and social justice policies. This is our crucial difference. And, of course, the question - and I am closing with it and thank you, Mr President - is whether, in fact, there is a political planning that is essentially capable of documenting what you are saying in public, that - you have taken your conclusions - you want there to be a deposit in the health system after the pandemic and that - what Mr Mitsotakis said earlier - you will find a way of obtaining permanent support for human resources, which was the previous period. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Our political assessment is that you do not have such a plan and that is why the progressive political forces, the health associations of patients, the people and the people who, in fact, believe in the public health system and its role and the bias that must exist from a modern European country to it. There must be a strong front that will try to widen this crack into the neoliberal account created by pandemic and needs around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. But don't go on with this over time. I'll charge a dentist while I'm here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 15 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 774/5-6-2020 of the current question by MP Chania of the New Democracy Mr Manousou - Konstantinos Voloudakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need for the lawlessness of Crete". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "Building a public job sentence". 3. The question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulou, Member of Parliament, with number 765/2-2020, asked by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnanias of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Evolutions in the construction of the Ambracian road". 4. The question under number 770/5-6-2020 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Liana Kanellis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The risk of the failure of the 2nd Centre for Education and Advisory Support (KESY) 2" Athens based in Agia Paraskevi due to a lack of housing". 5. The question by number 791/5-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of State - Kyriakos Velopoulos Vasiliou Viliardou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Strengthening of sections of systemic banks and a loss of the value of the deferred tax". 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the building problems in the schools of Aegaleo. The responsibilities of the municipal authority and the government for any further injury." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 773/5-6-2020 is a topical question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Strengthening the structures of local government for the implementation of social work as an alternative sentence". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The importance of granting the new land area of Heraklion to the Municipality of Heraklion". 3. The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens of the Movement of Change Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unconscious school buildings of the Municipality of Aigaleo hide risks for students, teachers, parents". 4. The question by number 771/5-2020 of the Member of Parliament, Aitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Mission of students in the productive schools of the Armed Forces and the Security Body". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Privatization of the external water system of EYDAP". 6. The question asked by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition, Theoristis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "State aid for Aegean without guarantees for the Greek State". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "It is a worrying thing to raise the number of members who are waiting for their pensions." 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "The immediate adoption of measures to protect the income and rights of workers in the tour industry". 9. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of National Defence, on "Access to military schools for pupils with dyslexia". 10. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “One hundred and thirteen thousand outstanding outstandings of the so-called third pension from May 2019 and forty-seven thousand unpaid funeral expenses for more than three years”. 11. The question asked by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "As a result of unusually high temperatures (burn) in olive blossom." 12. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "Security of the smooth implementation of the airport's work in Kastelis". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question raised by Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Departmentation of coastal front to the Municipality of Central Corfu". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 5700/10-4-2020, by MEP I' Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on "Support measures for self-employed, professional and business workers, financial commitments to OTAs and additional social and health protection measures for workers and workers through OTAs". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, entitled 'In the air', Greece's tour guides. 3. The question asked by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nectarios Santorini to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on "Signant delays in the proclamation of the work of the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System (ESOTH), risk of losing the funding of the project". 4. The question and application under number 1178/49/10-10-2019 by the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Press and perspective of the General Mining and Metalworking S.A." (SPEAKING) LARCO’. Mr. Andreas Michaelides, MP of Chios from SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we will all agree that the development of the COVID pandemic - 19, despite its smooth course to date, has not been completed and any triumphant triumphs to deal with it have been at least excessive and unreasonable. As they all show, we still have a way to deal fully with the phenomenon, and on that basis we must all show the responsibility we need. So, where we have serious remarks to make and I think that the major shortcomings in your policy, Minister, are in terms of how you deal with special vulnerability groups and, of course, you will allow me to become more specific. We have repeatedly pointed out to you the serious delay in the health protection of the CSTs, especially in the islands. Let us remind you that despite the long-term deprivation of AMCA by the people who are in the CTBT, the numbers of AMCAs have not yet been replaced by the temporary care numbers, with what this means for their health coverage and, above all, for the vaccination programmes. At the same time, structures to address the health needs of COVID -19 are in complete disintegration. For example, as the Lesvos Medical Association denounces, so far the first evaluation office of COVID -19 in the Moria Cyt, which is also the case in the Chios Cyt, on my island of origin, where the respective medical office, according to a statement by the Vice-Regional Director of Health and Welfare, operates with volunteer doctors, as it works. Also, the services of the EGE, Minister, operate on working days and hours nine to five, i.e. outside the weekend, as the porters recently denounce. Thus, arrivals made on Friday afternoon, for example, can only be assessed by Monday morning, with what this means to refugees and immigrants but also to workers themselves. Psychiatric patients, another team of special vulnerability, have the assessment that they are in fact completely abandoned in their luck. The instructions given by your Ministry, we fear that there are still exercises on paper, as well as on "Thriasium", for example, as the workers, psychiatric patients who most of them find it difficult or are unable to observe hygiene rules, are stacked in a ranch that is less than half a metre apart. In Roma camps, the situation is tragic. No integrated prevention policy exists and where issues arise, attempt to deal with them on a case-by-case basis. The recent events in the Roma settlement in Nea Smyrni Larissa, for example, demonstrate the total lack of specific type of prevention and information for these people with programs adapted to their own habits and cultural data. Same happens in prisons. The only measures taken were essentially restrictive, and even the decongestion announced remained a letter of intent. In nursing homes and nursing homes measures are usually taken on the occasion of a celebration. Minister, we also express our deep concern at the fact that protests are increasing in the case of the declining of the voice of workers in hospitals, and we also have several incidents of re-examination, crisis and re-placement in positions of responsibility in order to prosecute them from these positions and to establish new posts in these positions. The cases of "Evangelism", "Thriasios", "Hatzikosta" Hospital in Yannina, I think they are characteristic. We will come back to this issue, Minister, by asking for explanations of specific circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Paul Paul Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Ministers, because I see dreams, as Mr. Mitsotakis said earlier, addressing the Chief of Officerial Opposition, not with such civil courtesy, I saw a dream last night. Imagine, Vassilis Kikilia and Mr. Kontozamanis, treating the pandemic with a limit of ECU 1.5 billion and not ECU 1.94 billion that we have reached. Imagine facing the pandemic - that I was dreaming of - with an EOPY spending limit of 3.1 billion and not 3.5 billion. Imagine not covering the uninsured. Imagine - for the staff we will say five things - not to have done nineteen and a half thousand assignments, of which eight and a half thousand permanent and the other contractors of various specialties, with a net input to the ESS from what you gave us and what we delivered you eleven thousand more employees. Imagine having this way with the pandemic. You, too, have undermined the plan we had for the staff since the first day. We handed you ready for a thousand doctors a year, a thousand five hundred other personnel. We had proclaimed the ninety doctors, you stopped it and you started it again on February 28, when the pandemic went down. The thousand five hundred who have been signed a PSF since last year, why haven't you published them yet? In fact, Vassilis, you announced it in December. There was no notice from December that you announced it and we had it ready since 2019. Of course, you're blocked. Because what it achieved in the negotiations and Olga Gerovasili and Marilissa with the institutions is that we can have for the health system for 2019,2020, 2021, 2022 ten thousand permanent staff, a thousand doctors and a thousand five hundred other staff a year. In 2020, now in the pandemic, in the poorness, did you sign PIS for this year's two and a half thousand permanent appointments? Oh, no. What you did - and you should have done it, and we supported it with the mechanism that Andreas said before we prepared it - is the credibility of the mechanism of subsidiary staff, which is not four thousand, with our count being about two thousand five hundred - two thousand six hundred. And you obviously count on the KOMYs, by the EGE, who were appointed in the order of application, the priority for the mobile units. That's how you take that number off. The real support is that. Don't say what we want. We've counted them. I guess we'd be dealing with the pandemic without having taken the EAW three hundred permanent staff more than we had received. I guess we haven't changed three hundred and fifty ambulances. I guess we hadn't opened on three bases of aerospace in Syros, Halkidiki for summers and Aktio. We talked about it yesterday. Let me not say again about the EKA and the privatisation plan with the friend businessman Mr Vassilis. I guess we hadn't reached the hospitals, if they hadn't stayed in their funds, owe 730 million euros, as was the case on 31-12-2014 and not the one we handed you over to if they were paying back what they had spent by then. There you are. Because I'm not letting anything fall down, Mr. Mitsotakis said earlier about the ICUs. If the five hundred sixty-eight are little for non-family conditions, the four hundred thirty-eight that you handed over to us what is it? Why did you deliver us, four hundred and thirty-eight. And we made it five hundred sixty-eight in memorial conditions and with the horns above our head say to us "cut this, do that". Of course - I say, we have no problem - I came the first day and told you 'This will increase' and I am very glad that you have done so. For when I came in, you were told that up to 100 beds can be increased and I said to you: "The six hundred can be nine hundred so." Of course the count is not entirely correct. Now be careful, the thirty that I made, with the beds of MATH, burns, plastics, that have equipment and can be converted, now they're starting and mocking from what I'm learning, they're closing. A readiness was created, but now they're shutting them down. The actual influx of the ESS is a hundred and a hundred forty beds, the new ones developed, and of course you pressed on that, that there was no vacancy of a permanent doctor, they had all been covered. You got a nursing staff from what you hired these months. Do not count the private sector and say a hundred forty, because the seventy were there before, the other seventy came, none of those who went to make a private predator with the thousands of six hundred you gave them, and I hope they didn't take them, because they didn't use them. It didn't have to, thank God it didn't have to. I want to finish with two things. Firstly, I would very much like you to tell me this now. Leave the donations aside, and we used them. But we have given these four years - and it is the figures - 30 million euros from the Ministry of Health's reserve. Have you given half the euros for a project? You are now a year government. Half of the euros for projects from the Ministry of Health's reserve have you given? Oh, no. We gave 50 million, the Ministry of Health Public Investment Program. We gave it. Have you given a euro, a year now? Not half. Thirdly, we had 60 million from the Durus, now Patolis returns and is not ashamed - and he is not thinking and ashamed! - and launches works and CTs, magnets, and PETs, and all that, which is from the district's money, and you don't mention a word. You called us once - twice and then there's no invitation to say it's mine, to tell Patolis that it's his. That's right. It was 23 million, from the 'SIEMENS', which we launched - and this comes a lot - 23.5 million from the overrun in 2018. I'm doing a parentheses here. These facts matter, and I want them to be heard. San Savva has entered a magnet, a second radiotherapist, PET, and are not working. Mrs. Balaura, what's she doing, she's screwing up? They've been in hospitals for a while now. And "Saint Olga" entered the magnetic scanner, that's where it starts to work. I continue: 3.5 million of the rest of the anti-cancer fundraiser, what Abrahamopoulos did with the advertising expenditure of CEDEFOP, nineteen axes, with the EOPY programme. Everybody's in, they're in. How many of them have worked? This is a EUR 240 million programme, from which we had implemented it, - when we were up - the EUR 130 million. Much has been done after that. Push the rest. I want to see yours now. Where is he? A year when you're up, the land that comes and the money comes from the European Union, where's your programming? Well, listen. The next period - now that the first round of pandemic is going through, and I hope that we do not have a second - will clash up big political plans. You guys were back because you both scared the coroner and that story. So, all these aerials said by Mr.Mitsotakis, that you will go around when you see the PPP, which said about the budget and now says "We support, we support.", you will regain the interests that we want to go to PPPs, to public-private partnerships. The conflict will be large tomorrow - tomorrow, if you go ahead with these plans, which I see you are moving forward. And this is seen by the fact that you are keeping people like Carvelis in the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who went to snatch with his relatives' company for offshore and, indeed, made a legislative framework to cover him. It has proved to be in the crisis that what a country can shield health is the public health system. It's not the private sector. The private sector went to snatch. You gave 30 million for the D.C.'s exams. How much has been consumed by them? People go and pay at private clinics and private labs to do the COVID or anything. He still pays there - he doesn't do it for free - without the EEAS covering anything. He needs a new social contract for health. I will conclude by saying that we cannot continue to say that we recognise the work without integrating them into the heavy and unhealthy and that we should double and triple the wages of health workers. This will be the next great battle, so you recognize the work and so you break the social contract of the previous period, which went bankrupt in the country, saying: I'm not rewarding you for what you're doing, but I'm allowing you to get a hate out of what you're talking about. That bankrupt the country. Now, with a steak and crumbs, I can't do business. We have to go to 7% of GDP, we have to go from 1 billion to the health sector now, instantly, go the biggest part to wage increases, so that the world can actually see it. Of course, simulation can not only be about any subsidiary staff who entered now, but must be about all four thousand OAED, it must also be about subsidiary staff, who was serving and who has also set back in dealing with the pandemic in the previous period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr Papadopoulos, MP of the Radical Left Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u47	Among the other, a recent poll revealed this shocking, that Greek citizens' confidence in the National Health System and its employees touches the unbelievable figure of 83%. Not by chance. The contribution of the ERC officials to the very good results of the first phase of pandemic management in Greece is recognised in general. Indicative is the testimony that the battle in intensive care units has had impressive results, achieving a one hundred and fifteen patient release to this day. However, this remark has so far been assessed by the government mainly with praise and applause for the heroes of the ESS. The proposals of the collective bodies of the ESS, the other workers, the SYRIZA, the other parties of the progressive opposition to shield the ESS, its sufficient funding, its duties with permanent posts, its quality upgrade and dignity in working conditions, remuneration, on-call, on-call for the officials of the ESS are systematically ignored in the government's actions. However, the universal tragedy of the pandemic has created new data on all issues relating to the fate and perspective of the ESS, the costs of supporting it in the battle by relapsing the infections, the safeguarding of Greece as a safe tourist destination, the realisation that for the health of the economy and the country's wider interest is the immunization of the National Health System. The new data shall include the possibility of additional national and European resources, with additional expenditure on the state budget, the EEAS and the ESRB, with increased donations, in particular by suspending the European Union Stability Pact, the use of the Recovery Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Investment Bank, the European Central Bank, the increased European budget 2021-2027, the new programme called “Next Generation”, EUR 1.85 trillion, announced by the Commission to present the new draft ‘Europe Time: Reconstruction and Preparation for the next generation’. What exactly is the government doing, on the next day of the lifting of isolation, at the time of resurgence of cases for the objectively difficult management of the next phase of the pandemic, the armoring of the National Health System? Is it enough to increase the ICU beds - has it been said - to the four thousand subsistence recruitments, to the limited recommendation for the ICUs and the Mytilini hospitals, Samos, Chios? Is it sufficient to what the Prime Minister says about the newly traded NHS, which claims to have social-democratic perceptions, while, in fact, it is a deep neoliberal doctrine of the stereotypes he has denounced? What exactly is it doing to implement the International Health Regulation and decentralise the diagnostic capability of the ESS with reference centres, for the pandemic, in selected health centres throughout the country? Let me tell you that in the Kalambakas health centre, which is close to Meteora, and which accepts a population of hundreds of thousands of tourists, there has been contact with those responsible - the health centre - and there has been no intervention. In this period you were supposed to choose outside Attica other health centers to play this crucial role. What is the government doing to implement the quarantine protocol and generalised tracing? What does he do for the subordinated hospitals of all the rest of Greece? OENGE and the WTO have provided concrete information. What is it doing for health centers, regional medicine all over the country, especially in the difficult areas and in the remote islands, in the areas near the camps, near the archaeological sites, close to the historical monuments? Also, what he does to design the local health units, which in the hundred twenty-seven, we delivered, you did not add, dear ministers, nor one. And you're talking about the organization of the National Health System and the primary system. What is the government doing about emergency care, the autonomic TPAs, the upgrading of the EKT, the staffing of the ambulances, the equipment? Are you leaving them in the piranhas of public-private partnerships to speculate? What is the government doing for the patient centres, for the traumatic centers, for the wage upgrade of the doctors of the RIS or nurses at all levels, for dentists, pharmacists, biologists, manufacturers, visitors, social workers and all other public health workers? What does the government do about the overall motives to be given, so that young doctors of barren specialties can stay in Greece or return from abroad and agree to serve the ESS in the atrocities, remote islands? It was reported that even in Santorini there is not sufficient attendance. You wondered a little about what we could do with increased motives both in Santorini and Kos, even in Rhodes, Corfu, Zakynthos, Kefalonia, and even in Mykonos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u48	Are you going to take from the time of your dentistry, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u49	...which are clearly subordinated and we want to prove that they are safe tourist destinations? I conclude with the suggestions. We, the timely question, didn't just make it to corner you. We have made it to show a course towards the qualitative and integrated national health system that defends health as a fundamental human right and a public good and highlights what we want in the new era. In particular: institutional and organisational reconstruction of the ESS. Update of hospital agencies. Increase public beds in IF to internationally accepted. Direct communication of four thousand permanent ESS doctors and nurses. Award of a thousand posts by doctors and a thousand five hundred nurses per year - we had put it in four years, now with the coronary - to reach those which you also recognize are still large gaps, both for nurses and for doctors and for other specialties. Organising a European Public Health Prevention System. Reinforcement of the ESI with a billion euro now, gradual increase in government budget expenditure to 7% of GDP and a national plan to make use of the Recovery Fund, the New Generation programme. Andreas Xanthos reminded you of the proposal: Intergroup for all of this in order to have a national plan. Do you intend or will you simply continue to praise the National Health System, while in practice what the government does is little, compared to what we can do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too, but you also consume the time of your dentistry. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented experience of dealing with the pandemic has brought to the surface all the issues that are in employment, employment and the health system. Of all these issues, I am going to stand by two: the issue of hospitals and the issue of primary health care. I believe, however, that it is worth keeping two - three things, which I would like to introduce. The first is - has been said by other colleagues - that the majority of Greek society, at least all of the living social forces, trusts - is in favour of the public health system. That is something that cannot be ignored. The second is that there have always been two political proposals in the field of health: the first is the view of the progressive, democratic party, which considers health to be a social asset, and therefore it must ensure that all citizens have free and equal access to health services when they need it. This proposal opposes health as a means of enrichment, also - such as anything in the world we live in - and, in essence, wants to transfer health activities to the private sector, where it will essentially be the care, health services and access to the economic situation of the sick. This contrast has always permeated any proposals for health. This contrast also goes through today the issues we are discussing, the proposals we are making, the proposals to which we are confronted. The third point, to which I would like to dwell, is that health requirements are inappropriate. He who needs care, if he can't find his care in the public sector, will look for her as she can in the private sector as much as he can. There is no need, in other words, to say: I am in favour of the public or I am in favour of the private care sector! The political proposal of the Right to increase the vital space of the private sector is that it creates inequality, creates uncovered needs, and creates, along with the reduction in public health expenditure, the transfer of health costs to patients' pockets. It is the policy - if you like - which has finally closed eyes to two and a half million of our fellow citizens excluded from our public health system. It is the policy, which has created this army of occupants, the policy that has not actually dealt with them, the same policy that has brought the system to the forefront of its operational collapse. It is with this policy that we are confronted with, and with the forms it takes today, we are confronted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am also using dentistry. In the case of hospitals, the requirement to deal with COVID -19 has led to a compressive effect on the operation of hospitals. Regular hospitals stopped, regular surgery stopped, regular examinations stopped, stopped afternoon medical. In fact, hospitals operated the emergency, ICU beds and CIVID-19 clinics. It is right, in my opinion, that hospitals were designed and fortunately, this planning did not have to be implemented in practice as well. However, both in this compression that has been made and in the decompression - the system has been restarted today - they have emerged for these decisions, but also in the decisions we are called upon to take - a number of weaknesses. The lack of staff has emerged, which has led to the limitation of the operation of hospitals. Your weakness, Mr President-in-Office, is therefore also apparent - I am addressing the Ministry's political leadership - which you have not made permanent recruitments. The weaknesses and shortcomings in the operation of workshops, the operation of IF beds in various areas, i.e. public hospitals, in which, if you like, the measures so far had a temporary character. Finally, the uncovered needs of patients, particularly those who suffer and follow them, have emerged that little - at least - I was given that impression by the Ministry of Health's political leadership - well done. I think now, with the decompression of the system and the reopening of the system, these weaknesses appear to be more clear. At the same time, of course, I can see - I wish the ministers could disprove me with their contributions - that there is, in fact, a need for various functions to be reduced and indeed that is done in many hospitals in the country. I'm going to refer to Heraklion University Hospital. The cardiological clinic offers what modern cardiology can offer around the world. With the decompression of the hospital and its reopening in the name of ITH beds we need, there is an effort to limit the activity of the cardiological clinic of the University Hospital of Heraklion. I wish you wouldn't deny me. I'm waiting. I put it, Minister, to hear your position from Stepma. In the same logic, the activity of the neurological clinic is limited. There are segment mergers - I am pressurized by time ruthless, and I have a lot of questions - in the name of spatial planning. How many hospitals in the country and even at university, are there two sleeping establishments? What scientific study, what scientific position does it propose - even - beside the haemodynamic laboratory to operate a right-wing cavity laboratory? As the debate goes elsewhere, I do not go any further with my thoughts. I have a lot of questions about what the hospital officials, Mr. Ministers, will answer. Let us not be fooled - it is a moral satisfaction for the workers in the system that the world's solidarity campaigns - are demanding funding for public hospitals in the country. We must go with a two-year short-term target, three years, to reach the European average. Second, personal. There is a need for permanent recruitment. Other colleagues have mentioned this. We need a wage upgrade for staff, we need integration into heavy and unhealthy. With regard to permanent recruitment, I will report some associations of contract workers. It is, Minister, of all the hospitals in Crete. The Contracting Parties' associations shall, together with everyone, require the proclamation of permanent posts. It is a letter addressed to the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, I imagine it will reach you as well. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Take a direct position on the fact that we have the time limit until mid-June - by 16 or 17 June - because it is a staff trained, a staff that covers up to seven years of public system needs. We cannot afford to lose them today, to retrain from the beginning staff etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Igoumenides, you've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u53	Healing care is gone! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u54	Be well, Mr. Igoumenides, and I thank you. In the end, the Bureau will demand heavy and unhealthy! You should know that! Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor for three minutes, unless she makes use of her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a transitional period between the first period of the coronary pandemic and a relatively unprecedented situation, which is coming in the next few years and which is really not going to evolve, precisely because there are many uncertain factors, first and foremost, the reception of tourists in our country, which, however, does not seem to be particularly prepared for the government. The people of tourism are still waiting for the health protocols to work. The process of monitoring the graduates is also ignored. Are there going to be a test, or are we going to leave the situation uncontrollable? Will the tests be carried out in the country of departure or in the country of arrival? When do you intend to answer all this? We're already in mid-June. The second issue concerns the organisation of the health system and equal access for all citizens to it at this particular stage. During the first phase, lockdown was the decisive factor in virus reduction. This was the only project, since there was no plan for organised use of all available human and material resources. Fortunately, in this first phase both citizens backed up, while respecting the measures and the workers of public hospitals, but also private doctors and pharmacists, as they naturally require, their scientific and professional status. However, the government, with Mr Georgiadis in particular, rather than strengthening these scientists in their work, smuggled them and strengthened the voices they were talking about, for example, for the sake of drugs in masks and antiseptics, while the only people responsible for the predicament you were, the government itself, who did not value these products, as we requested from the first day. Why didn't you? Because you did not care and you do not care for equal access for all citizens to them and especially our most vulnerable fellow citizens, since someone had to give up to 11 euros to buy a disposable mask, with your blessings. So you let the market rules dominate. The same was the case with diagnostic tests. Why? Because we were only seeing celebrities and eminent figures announcing that they were infected with the coronary, while the rest of the citizens were forced to stay at home, fighting for whether they were infected, with cases which, unfortunately, also had the least of the developments. Because these celebrities were able to pay for them in private laboratories, while at the same time the government refused to manage the laboratory centrally so that all citizens could access them. You did not do all of this in the first phase, invoking the urgent situation. Now you have time. Take advantage of him, in order to take whatever measures are needed for the equal access of all citizens to services, health materials, diagnostic tests and medicines, basic right of every citizen. The third axis, to which I shall close, concerns the cross-border management of the pandemic and the search for transnational synergies for common solutions. We have seen enormous disparities between countries during the pandemic. We have seen international competition in supplies of materials, shortages of medicines and seizures of materials from other countries from specific countries. On the other hand, we are asking you to support initiatives such as that of the World Health Organisation, the Costa Rica initiative, for the free disposal of patents for vaccines and medicines so that all citizens around the world have access to them. Despite your initial commitment and, personally, here, Mr Kontozamanis, supporting the initiative, you finally retreat, as of course, other countries have retreated. Obviously, the pressures of the multinationals at international level are enormous, but you must take initiatives, as a country and as a government, and do not fall behind the interests of other countries or the interests of the market. As we have done in very difficult conditions on the Valletta initiative, with the aim of negotiating prices for medicinal products between the countries of the European south on the universal access of citizens to cheap and quality medicine, we want you to continue such initiatives. It's a chance now to do it. Today we are waiting for concrete and honest responses to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Mr. Meikopoulou Deputy Magnesia of SYRIZA has the floor for three minutes. If he wants to, he'll use his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I will also use the time of dentistry and, if necessary, your tolerance. Mr President-in-Office, I think that we have no doubt lived, lived and lived in an unprecedented situation because of the pandemic, which I think has put the strengths of the national health system to the test themselves, but I think we are now seeing the side effects that already exist in the field of the economy. I think, however, that it can be what we have lived for, and we will live for an opportunity, Minister, not only to act in order to cover new and immediate health needs, but I think it is time for us to shape the next day's sanitary map, which will, of course, also respond to new data. We should also take account of the following: the National Health System of the next day, the primary care care is now directly linked to the country's own tourism product, with the development of tourist flows itself. We must now forget that the foreign tourist in particular will choose an area with the best hotel, but it will now select areas, which have a sufficient and enhanced health shield. What, then, is the reality of sanitary armour, especially in tourist areas, and particularly in the part of primary care? I think it is right that I am thinking today of making use of the documentation of what I am claiming to be the example of the Magnesia Prefecture, because it is precisely because of geography that combines the plain coastal area, the mountainous area and the island region as a whole, and we need to see whether Magnesia itself for the next day of the pandemic can respond to the healthist party in terms of tourist flows. Let's see what happens on the islands of the Northern Sporades. Minister, even today, in Skiathos, the recruitment of a general doctor is pending. There are, of course, still no shifts covered by the EKP drivers. Five permanent staff posts are planned at the Skopelos Health Centre, but a general practitioner has not yet arrived. Let's not say what's going on at the EKAB's shift crew level. At the Alonissos Regional Medical Hospital the medical coverage, until today, is assumed by rural doctors, with all permanent staff positions remaining empty and uncovered. Not to say what is happening at the Argalatis Health Centre, Mr Kikilia, where until today poor director Mrs. Soulini sends urgent letters to the Director of the 5th Ministry of Health, asking him for the self-evident, i.e. to cover the primary care of the area, the Argalatis Health Centre, at least by equipment at the moment, in order to trace the incidents. You know, Mr. Kikilia, that now the EGE's design has been integrated as well as primary care. It cannot be supplied by the Almyros Health Centre; said the Member or private initiative in question with an ISO BOX prefix and not to be staffed and adequately equipped with all other regional medical and health centres with prefix rooms. You even claim the title of modern, that you copy the best European standards. Is it possible, to date, for the equipment of the primary structure of Magnesia to be placed on the initiatives that a Member may take or on the pole that a Member may have or on the private initiative? Immediately you need to take steps so that Magnesia can respond to the new health needs, especially in the part of primary care. I therefore believe that the proposals made on the SYRIZA side are not of a wooden opposition character, are not of the character of artisan sclerosis or are ideological. To tell you that we must immediately complete the recruitment contests you received from the previous government and have canceled them all in the secondary part, but also in the primary part, it is not an idealism. To tell you today that honor to people who worked in the health system was night to deal with the consistency of the pandemic is to be able to discuss their wage support. To say today that we need to provide enhanced incentives for feral and island regions I do not think it is an arterioracy on the part of SYRIZA. So, Mr. Kikilia, things are simple. Since you also agree that the country's heavy industry is tourism, we must finally read out the next day, understand that strong health shield is directly linked to the tourist streams and not go back to black-eyed seasons, that is, who has edges, who has closes to supply a health center with a preliminary chamber. If that's possible! We tell you in good faith. We believe that we can, together with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, reconcile a new health charter without ideals and without arterial sclerosis. I think, therefore, that with the figures, but also the picture I have given you about Magnesia, we are very far behind. And, Mr Kikilia, is it possible to expect thousands of tourists from abroad in Magnesia at the moment, and even the transport, patients' passages, being done with a helicopter? Where is this famous floating ambulance that we've been waiting for since 2019? It is also announced by the Secretary-General for Finance, but also by various local Members, but until today we do not even know whether the competition has been completed. So how are we going to deal with the tourist stream of the islands without even an adequate means of transport to patients quickly if we need the islands to deal with a suspected case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. Minister, would you like to speak now or first with the parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Mr. President, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u60	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have started with the topical question of eleven questions, which were added around forty-five more that I would very much like to answer all of them, such as doctors and colleagues, to PAGAN, and whether we will close the cardiology in order to fix the method. I say no, Mr. Comrade. I would also like to respond to the agonizing appeals of my colleague from Volos on ISO BOX. I am also going to try to talk about the recruitment issue as a whole, as well as about the question of the honourable Member who is right to fight for the issue - the former Minister, Mr Xanthos, has said so many times - of the fair division and the socialisation of new technology towards vaccines and to Europe and the world with which we agree. The Prime Minister himself raised matters in European fora, and that is why there is no doubt about it. I will try to answer everyone, while answering the eleven questions you have asked me and that is not the same. Mr President, I may take three - four more minutes, because there will be no dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, in this battle against the unprecedented pandemic, we have indeed been associated with weapons of science, solidarity, philanthropy and philosopheria. Our success is primarily credited to this - and I have said so many times - the top human potential of the National Health System, doctors, nurses, administrative staff, paramedical personnel, rescuers, EKA crews, bankers, cleaners, everyone has tried and given their best self in this enormous health crisis. I have lately left the scientists and staff of the National Public Health Agency because I personally committed myself to the Public Health Act that we brought here a few months ago that these young scientists of the EGE will be the operational arm for public health issues. Indeed, there was a huge rebranding in the body, which offered the part of public health and where? In a pandemic. I would like to stress that the thorough tracking of the first case - and I would remind you that other countries have given up and given up tracking many weeks and months back - shows that the EGE and Civil Protection are an important part of the Ministry of Health and the structures of the government and the country and other ministries, of course, because that is where civil protection belongs. I would remind you that, as far as it is concerned with the National Public Health Agency, unlike the legends, we have never distinguished our own, your own children, and so on. We have worked in an overall way, we have trusted these young scientists and I think they have done enough. Also praise must be given to health professionals - you have said so, ladies and gentlemen - to private doctors, to pharmacists, to all those who have made the greatest contribution to this effort. Of course, above all, credit must be given to the Greek society that trusted us, which kept our measures and supported our efforts, an effort that was the result of an early, valid and effective response. We felt the burden of our responsibility towards human life and worked hard to find ourselves in the present situation. My principle is that nothing is given to this life and everything is conquered with effort and effort. This is what my personal route has taught me. I think that for all people who want to achieve goals - small and large - through a team and collective effort, it is an important deposit. At the same time, I would like to stress - because I often see what may seem to be self-evident, and I am opposed to it - by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that much stronger health systems of many rich countries have failed to withstand the pressure of the coronary and that in Greece the timely adoption of measures by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the human shield created by the Greeks with the responsible attitude of individual consciousness and social responsibility that they have shown has shown our country in one of the most successful models and examples of managing the health crisis. I would also like to say once again that I recognise the constructive attitude of Officerial Opposition and the whole political spectrum in charge. I think that the adventure of pandemic has helped further the growth of our democracy, which is a reserve for the future. In the hardest things that come, we will, in my view, need to remain united, serious and firm. It is not a matter of political or party controversy that the value and protection of human life are worthy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully studied the questions you have put to me and thank you very much, because that is how I am given the opportunity to stress once again that the Government has supported us and will continue to support the medical, nursing and paramedical staff of the country and I will explain how. Our initiatives are of a permanent and institutional nature. I said and repeat that the saints of the next door have the love of all Greeks. So let me start from the questions raised in the timely question about changing health conditions and the need for a universal, equitable and effective public health system. Minister, I am once again committed to the publicity of the National Health System. As a Minister of Health I'm a guardian of the ERC. I have stressed it since the first day of taking up our duties. The public funding of a health system must surely be able to grow and converge with the European average first. But let me make a comment. I think it is fair to say that it matters not only how much money is spent, but how we spend it. Therefore, not only is the increase in public funding sufficient, but also the efficient use of resources. I think we are moving in this direction, and that is exactly what we did and do during the pandemic. I would like to remind you that if the New Democracy Government had adopted your very strong urge and proposal in public fora, in the public debate to oversee everyone in the private sector from the beginning of the pandemic, such as private hospitals, private diagnostic centres and so on. - I remind the Greek people that the order goes with compensation - the Greek people would have paid an incredibly large sum by the Greek taxpayer. So it is good when we put a proposal into discussion that we should know where and what it is. So it is not just the sums that are spent - I am very pleased to list the cases and the amounts - but it has helped to treat the pandemic properly and the limited number of our fellow citizens who have suffered - unfortunately, some have lost their lives and we regret and mourn them - to limit the amounts spent. The private sector has also used funds to see donations with transparency and accountability always and no one can question this. But remember something. In SYRIZA days - we did have a debate here with former health ministers and other colleagues, doctors and non-medicals - in the four-and-a-half years of SYRIZA government 35% of health expenditure came from households, one of the largest percentages in the European Union, Minister, with informal payments, and the Minister mentioned them more than a quarter of direct private expenditure. So what exactly measures have these four and a half years been taken to stop patients from being charged with their pockets, since Greece at the time of SYRIZA had the second highest level of non-covered medical care needs, mainly due to costs, in the European Union? I would remind you that it is first for Estonia, then for us to double for the poorest households. So, even though we strongly support the value of public health - and I do - in four and a half years' time the 'we are shielding the National Health System' is something that one must prove. And when I said it outside the Maximos Mansion after meeting the head of the Ministry of Health with the Prime Minister of the country and the instructions he gave, you remember that I received very hard criticism of the use of this word. And yet, I think we deserved the result in the first cycle, a very tough and difficult cycle, against a huge public health crisis that has evolved into a pandemic. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that they have not been shaken, but that the inequalities of access to the public health system have been widened for SYRIZA days. And according to the European Union's studies one in ten households has no access to health services when it needed them. I recognise, however, the effort made to get into a system and uninsured and all the others, only to explain the other time that we were given the opportunity here, from Parliament's headquarters, to the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, that they did so, in fact, the two ministers for the Health of previous government, but without the relevant funds for the National Health System. Be careful, they put the uninsured means in place, but forgot to put the funds in order to be able to deal with this, with the results of sub-financing under the National Health System in recent years. So what do we have to deal with in 2019-2020? The costs which have increased by 5% in relation to 2019, as shown in the draft budget report - not to mention them again - and these, of course, do not include any additional funding that has been provided for the health sector. In these critical months we have had more than EUR 160 million extra emergency funding to deal with the consequences of the coronary, which involves the pay of ancillary personnel, the supply of personal protective measures, the supply of equipment for intensive treatment units. I am opening a parenthesis: I do - and I think you did not do this on your day, I did so on this governance - systematically any representative of my party has been asked to inform him, of course, the Chief of Health of the Anti-Population Officer every week. And, of course, I called my office the former Deputy Minister, Mr Polakis, and I listened very carefully to his suggestions on what possible care units or beds, for which we should hire nursing staff, medical staff, or to add respirators or other material, could be integrated into the National Health System. But I didn't stay in the talk. The opposite is true. I sought the consensus and the costing of all those who wanted to help and support, so that the country could be strengthened. Why really, how many beds, how many IDs have we received? Five hundred sixty-five. And indeed, I have explained in public many times that it is not just a pathogen of previous governance, but that in post-civilisation it has not been possible for the country to reach these figures that should be the average. And yes, now they'll be there. And I'll explain immediately how. So it is important not only with faith in our ideology to repeat the same things systematically - I see, many times my Deputy Minister Mr. Kontozamanis comes in and answers your questions - but that we can prove them in practice too. I would also like to say that in the 2020 Public Investment Programme entitled 'Strengthening the health and health services of the Ministry of Health with subsidiary staff to address the needs of the COVID -19', an additional sum of EUR 20 million has been entered, and the integration into the payroll of this staff into ESDP programmes will be used to support both the health systems and the EEAS, as planned and to be done on the basis of the European Commission's central planning to support European countries following this huge public health crisis. So our confidence in the National Health System and our systematic work yielded a measurable result. Indeed, we have reached the thousands of seventeen IF beds which arise - I have given the evidence, when the former Minister of Health requested them - from the new IF beds, which we have created within three months. I think it's a hundred hundred sixty I.T. beds that we created and the others that were caregivers, which we were able to staff and put these materials, respirators, monitors and beds that can be converted either were ex-MX or heart surgery, etc. In ICU. And we are now making a systematic and organised effort, which will begin to thrive in the next three to six months, to create permanent structures, permanent ICUs in the number that I mentioned and is the average of the European Union, that is, 12 beds per 100 000 inhabitants. And what is very private and what I want to say is very much. You know, we don't separate them. We have great respect for all scientists working in the National Health System or working in the private sector, all nurses and nurses working in the National Health System or in the private sector, all bankers working in the private sector or the National Health System, all cleaners working in the private sector or the National Health System. And I think we are making a very great and serious effort to get the private sector that has been very helpful with donations. They supported our efforts and thus gave this stock, which we need, in order to be able to equip these new IFs and it will be a huge deposit for the National Health System. And it is right that Mrs Cotanidou, whom I have put scientific responsibility, Mr Minister, for this project. Another point on which I think we agree is that we have been given the opportunity to reopen and reinvent our standards, if you like, for Greek society in the midst of a major crisis. And if we agree that the value of human life is the top, then yes, all these scientists... Be careful, we're talking about how the headline of the Ministry of Health and the government used the human added value of the top scientists we have in the country. Did he make a commission with New Democracy party scientists? I think anything else. On the contrary. He made it with people who have repeatedly offered the previous political leadership. They all joined this committee twenty-eight infectious, epidemiologist, intensive and experts. They're still there and they contribute, they offer subcommittees, they're suggesting. The government is taking its scientific recommendations very seriously into account. So is I. A similar committee led by Mrs Cotanidou and such a committee that can, in first year, in buildings with a doubtless extension to raise the number of ICUs, the permanent ICUs, we have a nursing staff that we have hired. This nursing staff reminds you that all the adjuncts, within the coronary and before the coronary, will be permanentized, with the commitment of the Prime Minister and not just them. I told you about nine hundred and thirty-six permanent doctors' posts, but there is also provision for converting subsidiary posts and subsidiary doctors to curators II after crises. So you can be sure that we are moving very carefully even if we are still in crisis. My colleague said - and rightly so - what will happen to our islands in the summer with tourism, and that is why we are now preparing a great deal of effort, a huge effort. And of course, Minister, that's the way it is, 100% can't exist. Obviously, we must also respect the economy and the people who are struggling and struggling for a living and give such health and protocols and we can as far as possible protect them. We should all help that. So I don't go back to details. I have mentioned this on several occasions. Just to say that we did, and we had the opportunity to take as many beds as we wanted from the private sector. And we did well. We separated, I think - and this is scientifically satisfactory - early for those who would be nursed with an infectious agent, those who had the non-infectious contagious to what it had to do with the ICUs, and this separation helped and saved lives. So, ladies and gentlemen, please, on matters of social sensitivity, I believe that your criticism is unrealistic and unfair and we are a government that has put above all the value of human life, because it is the prerequisite of all other values, we have protected vulnerable groups with acts and not words. So we can, like all of us, claim equal - and this is not a left-hand taboo - that we are humanists, we respect human life and we have, in practice, made social policy in a very big crisis that we have successfully managed. What, then, is the plan of aid to the ERC with permanent staff? I already said that. We have already exceeded five thousand subsidiary recruitments. Yesterday there were five thousand ninety-four. We gave it to the Minister per region the last time he asked for it. We are talking about six hundred ten doctors, two thousand four hundred two nurses, two thousand eighty - two other sanitary personnel, when the original programming was talking about two thousand people. It is a clear proof that the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not account for the costs in order to strengthen the country's health teams in mind. We have, in fact, covered constant needs and shortcomings of the past. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] And because I hear it again and again, let me remind you that in 2015-2019 there were seven thousand two ninety-five recruits of permanent staff and staff with contracts of indefinite duration. The departures, Minister, were eight thousand five hundred seventy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And because Mr Paulakis reminds me of the recruitment issue permanently, I would like to say to him that there were a thousand three hundred and seventy-two posts that were not filled. And as far as hospital medical staff were concerned, in 2018 there were a thousand six hundred eighteen post invitations and in 2019, when it was to be implemented by you, only three hundred and fifty-four were completed. So we're talking about 22%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u62	The evidence you've said doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u63	Well, it's my view of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u64	They're not opinions, they're numbers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u65	Good. But let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u66	Let the Minister finish. He didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u67	In my view, there is nothing more beautiful than imagination, of course, after the truth. So that's what our evidence says. I move on to say that, with a hard and painful effort, we have captured the real needs. We are continuing to update the hospital agencies, which is something you have seen in the MDGs, and we will also be able to recruit all those who need to be involved in the IDUs. We are also moving towards a re-enlargement and conclusion of crises that were pending in previous years. There are indeed approved appropriations and we are trying to find out why, while there were seats and notices on the arid regions, on our islands, on island Greece, these have not been successful. Obviously, a study must be carried out on how there can be additional, something that previous governance has done. There will be further incentives for our colleagues and other staff to go to these areas. In addition, I would like to stress that with the legislative initiative that we have brought into the system and the qualified nurses for the ICUs and general medicine, we are working on the motives for barren lines. This is an overall effort, an effort that should have been made for many years, an effort which has been neglected and an effort which we must all hug in the end. And I do have no problem telling you that it could be done with what was envisaged. By molecule? With molecule. On a platform? On a platform. What you started, Minister, that's what we took and followed. So also in the wage issues for which you ask me questions, I would like to say that - and take note of it - we paid a hundred thousand health workers horizontally, namely everyone. And of course, in our attempt to attract investment - something that we will be able to achieve - growth - and more - and to strengthen the economy, there must obviously also be the possibility of financial support for health professionals. We should therefore be able to create a new pay framework, which will go parallel with the economy. I also want to say that the ESRB is very helpful in this respect, and we are indeed moving towards strengthening the economic earnings of workers with research programmes, even with clinical studies. Now, as to why single diagnostic reference criteria are set with the SARS tests in the public and private sectors, etc. and when these will begin to be prescribed by EEAY, I remember that at the beginning of the crisis, the former Deputy Minister Paulakis had criticised the Ministry of Health - not me - about why this money was entered in the code other than the ICU to get the private workshops. Now he's criticizing me why the private labs didn't take them and why we don't pay the private people. Look, it's a little oxymomile if you think about your ideology in what's about the tests. Listen! During the pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u68	Criticism is why the world pays, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u69	That's what I want to explain. During the pandemic we supported the state and the state in its greatest doubts that it is both capable and effective, Minister. That is why we have been implementing a central planning with targeted strategy, cooperation and transparency. The state, the public sector paid all the tests for all those in need. The Committee of Experts, Licensors and Epidemiologists gave the guidelines for who had to be tested and when. We didn't hear the Henrys. Some of you were pressuring us at the time to take tests, which were proved to be of doubtful quality. We looked at ourselves every day, as my colleague and Minister, the World Health Organisation, the FDA, the ECDC and the various fora to see if these tests are sensitive, clear, and if they could be used. You see, other countries used them, but they had disastrous results. I do not want to mention, for example, in relation to other countries, what happened when antigen and antibodies were used. We didn't do it and followed the experts and their advice to the end. If you remember, at some point we were under a lot of pressure on the subject of tests. So from the result, we seem to have been rightful. Let me repeat once again that no citizen has paid the public and neither will he. The use of private workshops is a personal choice for each citizen. And everyone - and this is controlled by the relevant public services - these fellow citizens who meet the criteria, without any financial participation in expenditure, are compensated by the EGE. I'm going to continue with the plan for primary health care. Look, it's a painful story post-culturally the theme of primary health care. Time passes and I don't want to expand any further. I would like to say, however, that I have explained to you the question that the Minister has asked me since the beginning of my term of office and before acorn, that we will assess the institution of the TOMMMs and that we do not come up with a priori to draw a line and throw anything into the ball of unusables. So, with this institution, we have seen and evaluated what the necessary support and support must be, where there are and where there are no doctors, who border on a health centre, which is just a door away, where a working hours, a second and a third hours, where there is no nurse, where there is only a doctor, what problems there are, etc. The TOMYs were mainly subordinated. We have told you that our aim is to holisticly address the care of chronic patients, the constant care of the population, the strengthening of public health, the promotion of health with assistance and cooperation in the primary care of all means and structures, public and private, for a health network such as to offer the citizen. Therefore, the interconnection of TOMYs, health centres, regional hospitals and municipal health offices will create a primary health care network, which will also include the issue of mental health - which you have forgotten to say - in order to find a way of dealing with a problem that has been time-consuming for many years. Many health ministers have made announcements on this and no solution has been found to this. And be careful why no solution has been found on this matter. Because I think you should win the Greek's trust. The Greek must be able to trust a structure, like the special doctors of this structure, in order to visit it and be able to dismantle at secondary and tertiary level a hospital, a university hospital and a larger structure. If, therefore, we are involved in a region of all these bodies, including doctors who may have the same relationship with the citizen in the region, then this can help us multiply the chances of gaining the confidence of citizens and actually going to these primary health care. Because we shouldn't be fooling each other. You forced people to go to primary health care. And in the past we were all looking for criteria and ways to get people to them and didn't go. And I do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, that we did not use primary health care in the midst of the public health crisis. If you remember, the Secretary-General then presented the plan for which primary health care was COVID -19 and which non - COVID -19. And I am very pleased that this has not had to be widely used, because we have gone very well in the way we have dealt with the disease. And of course, there was the possibility, in order to strengthen both our ICUs and our structures and transfer people - something we did - from primary health care to our hospitals. Of course! And this is the design and complexity and magic, if you like, of the National Health System, that is, the ability to use the human factor to serve your fellow citizens. And I move on to what has to do with the question about the Hellenic Dental Federation and the issue of politicians in this direction. I would like to remind you that it gave rise to the impression that I brought a bill on public health at that time, considering that public health is higher than modern health systems and then that the treatment comes. Because they prevent, prevent, inform and try to tell citizens what is harmful, what is harmful, who are these behavioural and social factors that are burdening their health, so that they understand that by sport, with proper nutrition, with correct diagnostic tests and horizontally screening, we can implement such policies that can keep them away from harmful diseases and from our hospitals. Such a great reform reminded me, in faith a few, at first was the anti-smoking law and its final implementation. It was a partnership and harmonious cooperation and a first major test for whether the whole society can move and go together, both smokers and non-smokers. It was an alliance of smokers and non-smokers. It was a feeling that we don't want our children to be passive smokers. You see, the pandemic has come and this huge reform of public health has been forgotten. In the context of public health, then, this issue will also be dealt with, as will pre-genital control of what it is about to do with gene diseases that are very difficult to deal with nowadays with the treatments costing millions of euros. It is therefore a programme that is not selective, and if you want it to be made public. On whether I intend to reorganise public health services and have a permanent epidemiological surveillance mechanism. I have already told you that no one believed that this CEDEFOP, as it had been defamated about fair and unfair, could do such a come buck. I have explained to everyone sincerely that there is a separation of legislative, executive and judicial powers. Our job is to move ahead with all these young scientists in order to create a public health arm that can really support the country. We were right in the pandemic, and this is a very big deposit. These structures already exist in all seven OSCEs, but obviously also in EAEC. Scientists showed up who worked and worked in the organization for years. Some of them were advisors to the former ministers. I have had absolutely no problem asking for their scientific assistance, the wisdom of all these years, and others also appeared to the general public in the midst of the crisis. I am pleased that I have asked from the beginning of the crisis that we listen to and trust experts and close our ears to all those who are 'luminous all-conscious' and come out and speak to all scientists. In a public health crisis, then, yes, Mr Papadopoulos, we have trusted the leading experts in interstate, and we have been entitled to that. I would like to say that we fully share and support what has to do with the Valletta Agreement and the European Commission. Has something come out of the Valletta Agreement so far? Oh, no. Has there been a deal? Oh, no. The European Commission is making an effort to deal with the socialisation of vaccines. We will be assembled, Minister. We've been talking about it all along. In this attempt to find a way - Mrs Kyriakidou informed me - there will be a very large sum in which the European Union will try in advance to place itself in the general image of the private sector so that there can be a vaccine, when discovered, for all Europeans. I'm glad. You told me about the development of the ESDP programmes. Excuse me, with rapid procedures, and I explained it, we had the potential to create the mobile health teams and extend them through the NRP. There are other things. I have been studying very carefully, Mr Polakis, what comes from the ESRB since the previous era. I see now the part of digitisation together of all diagnostic tests for all hospitals. I'll move on. I think this is a very good initiative. It is a tool that we should use. Is it panacea for everything? Oh, no. But where we can, of course. You spoke once again about the PPP when in my eyes it is a financial instrument. Such financial instruments have been used by you in many these four and a half years. For example, the agreement you have made with "Stavros Niarchos", and which we are doing, is such an agreement. The agreement made at the EEA with providers is such an agreement, Minister, how do we do it? I also recall that in this way - and, you know, I do not want to escape - they became fire stations, they became schools, they became waste management. There's been the telematics and the online ticket. They were used in your time and in your time, as well as in previous governments. I think we have an obligation to act responsibly and to inform the Greek society of what each is about and ask for. Let's go show the periphery who these fire stations are, and what are those public schools that took place with PPP? To finish, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about social inequalities. The protection of the lives of the citizens and residents of this country is the most capable of demonstrating our social sensitivity. I talked in February about the armoring of the ESS, I told you that some people rushed to iron me. I think we have responded with deeds and measurable results. I think that criticism should be shifted to the heart of the problem and a debate should not be held permanently on the basis of principles and declarations. The words are obviously inexpensive and the measurable work that has been done in recent months is beyond question. We are proud that under the supervision and guidance of Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, at this time the Ministry of Health and all other ministries have been able to contribute to reducing a huge problem that was coming forth in the country which caused enormous damage and loss of human life in the surrounding European countries. I personally believe and believe that we in the Ministry of Health have contributed to the reduction of problems and to alleviating inequalities. I would like to remind you of the reduction in the prices of medicines in the year, which saves 30 million euros from the low pensioners and those who pay for the drug. I would like to remind you of the way in which we have dealt with the pandemic, the way in which we negotiate the drugs to reduce the costs, the way in which we have given solutions to serious diseases affecting our fellow citizens, the way in which we have contributed to the loss of oncology, cystic fibrosis patients, etc. So, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown that it is not politics, it is not communication and the biggovernment, but the guarantee and safeguarding of the lives of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. We are now going to the Parliamentary Representatives. The first is Mr.Ioannis Balafas of the South Athens Sector by the Radical Left Coalition for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the honourable Members have already dealt with many or all of the questions in question. I will therefore be content with some supplements or points. First of all, I would like to start with a central issue which is of importance. The first phase of the pandemic is over. We have, for our part, determined and taken a certain stance. This attitude did not attempt at any time to exploit human suffering. It was a attitude which considered the human life and health of each individual citizen and society as a central and primary one. We have not tried to exploit anything from all things or to spit on human life. This has to do with our viewpoint, it has to do with our values, it has to do with our humanism, it has to do with our philosophy, if you want. In this sense, we are not concerned with earlier visas that, for a flu - of course, important, but not a coronary - were swinging our fingers and destroying asymmetrically. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, and we hope that the de-escalation of the last period will continue, although with some actions the government has not noticed some things and taking over an unnecessarily risk, as we have called it, has opened schools with the result of negative phenomena, a return to the issue of de-escalation in certain regions of the country. I also assure you that there is a negative situation - and what I am saying to you is not exaggerated - with the tests and samples carried out at airports, that is, at the gates of entry in our country. The situation at the airports, but also at quarantine hotels, has escaped to some extent, because it must be clear - and we all say so - that we are not done with the pandemic. We've got and we'll probably have - we wish it doesn't happen, but you always get the most unfavourable version when you're planning - focal refreshments that constitute a risk bell. In this sense, an increased epidemiological vigilance and practice - I stress - is needed to shield the ERC especially on our islands and on the other tourist destinations. And we say this because we want to see our tourism standing and the focus at this time, but also the other businesses and the situation of the workers. An important conclusion has been drawn, ladies and gentlemen, this time. In times of crisis and particularly health crisis, all the extreme fans of neoliberalism are forced to admit that their ideas - your ideas, how to do so - the less public, the better, or that the market itself can regulate everything have collapsed. That's positive. So you came back - and you did well - all in the public health system. You have discovered the value of the public health system, devalued public health, the epidemiological dimension, environmental health, school hygiene, defianced work medicine. And I sincerely would like to believe - the samples are not encouraging - that this interest was not politically hypocritical. It must not be forgotten what has happened and who has done it, who has put back on it, especially in order to overcome the difficult situation. That is why the resurgence in recent discussions on the importance of PPPs, public-private partnerships, that is to say, to enter private-sector companies in the fields of filleting in hospitals and to have public-service employees, the staff of the public-private hospitals should not be a continuation of a situation which has to do with the recognition of the importance of the public-sector system. Changes? Changes are needed at national level, at a global level, a new vision for hospitals living and not closed, as Mr Georgiadis has done, for a revitalization of primary health care. I will only refer to a particular area of improvement in the treatment of mental health for a public system beyond austerity and privatization. I wonder - and I say this frankly - do you believe in such a public health system? If so, beyond the welcome applause, they need some things in practice. You said something about funding, how, where. I shall refer to where then and how it matters. How to do this is not unworthy of quality in the final analysis. Also, with regard to permanent staff, you have said some promises, commitments, etc. Shouldn't it be self-evident, Mr. Kikilia, Ministers? Is there really a plan? Am I not saying what is happening in the economy in general at this time, seeing and making patches that are generally not coming out and making a new patch, a plan for today, for tomorrow permanent? You'll tell me, "Do you have one?" We have, I think, seen earlier situations, today, the part concerning health in "We stay upright 2", a bridge framework for our more general proposals for four months to 500 million. For example, I mention the need to strengthen the ESS which goes through these proposals to modernise hospitals. I will repeat the need for primary health care revitalized. And I will mention one, two more issues of Community services, as well as permanent and mobile mental health units, wage upgrading and armouring of public health services to have a permanent mechanism for epidemiological surveillance of the pandemic, but also more generally outbreaks of epidemics at every stage. Let me continue by saying a few words - it is my weakness - for primary health care, particularly public primary health care, I shall also refer to private care, which I think should be given special weight by all of us. But you know what? Primary health care and its various structures are not the volunteer hospitals, it is not the small hospital. And in that sense, what do we do for the family doctor? What do we do for the interdisciplinary team? A multidisciplinary group that will not accept, mainly going to society, will have a reference population. That's what we're really behind, we need to recognize it. And so that there is no misunderstanding, we are not against the private practice of medicine, dentistry - to God! - either of the private diagnostic centres, but we do not want these structures to compete with positions of power, the public health system, to have a well-intentioned complementary role in primary health care. I would like to make a special hint for an area of primary care that is dental care. Dental care in the first phase of pandemic and in the public sector and in the private sector was practically nonexistent, because there were no fundamental risks, particular personal protective measures, and the position of both dental practitioner and patient was particularly precarious. And I would like to stress something. I would like there to be an answer, a commitment, as you wish, Minister. There was during the period of my own an outdated agreement that was between the then leadership of the Ministry and the Greek Dental Federation for repeated intervention of preventive dental care in a school population from six to fifteen years, considering and I am sure that you, too, appreciated the enormous importance of this case for the general health of not only young children, but also for the continuity of their life. I would like to continue by referring to a very sensitive health sector at the same time as our tourism. We're all very concerned about it. I would say brief prevention, early diagnosis, effective care and prevention of coronary cases. The critical is the early detection and identification of possible cases with concurrent traceability and isolation of their contacts, i.e. strict compliance with the special health protocols. We would also really like an answer here, a position or assurance that these health protocols are on time and that there their recipients are in the knowledge of these protocols. In this area, first and foremost, we need control at the gates of our country, second, with molecular testing in public structures on the islands - I stress, gentlemen, in the islands and other tourist destinations - the strengthening of health staff on the tourist islands, etc., but also the possibility of pipes and finally the strengthening of the capabilities of the EKA and of the Greek air force. You said before, Minister, that it does not only matter how much money we can finance the public system, but also where that money goes. That's right. So why don't you go ahead - and with the spirit that you see, which I welcome many times - in this proposal that we have made? That doesn't matter. Let's not say we did it. Why do we not go ahead with the proposal for a intergroup committee of Parliament for public control and, more generally, for the issues of extraordinary expenditure, procurement, recruitment, etc.Huh? Far from me any negative talk about anyone, but would it not be better for these issues and others, in general, to deal with such a committee, certainly much more effectively and with a spirit of understanding, which, in health matters, particularly in the period of the health crisis - today, tomorrow - is particularly important? I would like to end not by repeating the issues raised by the previous questions, but by speaking for just a minute, Mr President - in effect - on the preparation and immediate action of the next phase of the pandemic, which I hope will not be next. We therefore need health insurance during the period before us and an integrated health protection plan for tourist destinations. I say it many times, but it's very important. It takes a substantial shift, quality in primary health care, and lastly, care and care for chronic high-risk patients groups, solidarity, compassion and collectiveness above all, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u72	Ms Zoe Rapti, Member of the North Athens Department of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as expressed by SYRIZA, I have to say that despite the consensual climate we have heard in this Chamber, at least by reading, I found that SYRIZA is returning to his old acquaintance, to the degrading reason for every national effort, to the in vain search for neoliberal opponents, to the vague portrayal of living reality, to depreciate the work of the previous governments in the field of health and, of course, to his inability to do any self-critic in the course of his own governance. More specifically, he did not have the courage to recognise that the country achieved something that escaped from usual. He did not have the courage to credit the government and the state that during the last three months political decisions have been taken and actions have been implemented to support the life and health of citizens who were not only self-evident. Neither little nor much did he tell us that the ESS had endured, because it had precedented in its own governance a significant strengthening of it in critical linkages to the needs of the pandemic, such as the ICMs. He then called us because we did not go through six months of governance on permanent recruitment, and he knows that the process of hiring nine hundred forty-two permanent doctors is soon complete. And finally, he asked us whether we would make use of public resources to upgrade the ESS, devoid of all the resources that the Minister, the over 160 million who have been bravely allocated to date, even the donations of donors and agencies mobilised by the government during the pandemic, have been made available to us. But what is the truth? Over the past two months, the government has made a very clear choice to protect the health and life of the citizens. For this reason, the National Health System has strengthened with the EGE a specific action plan to address the coronary, set the thirteen hospitals as reference hospitals in all health regions. Double the IF beds. Yes, it doubled them, ladies and gentlemen, in just two months from five hundred eighty five that we received in a thousand seventeen, with the aim of reaching the end of 2020 in the thousand two hundred. It strengthened MFs in beds for cardiological and respiratory incidents, because they had to find all this, connect and function. He approved almost five thousand recruitments of doctors and nurses, of whom, as I said earlier, nine hundred forty - two are permanent doctors. And of course he implemented and implemented the notice you published in 2019. He organised a large supply bridge with the significant contribution of IFET, the IFET and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and thus the HSH to acquire modern equipment and adequacy it had not previously had. He mobilized eight hundred sixty-five bodies and organizations and private donors. You don't like to mention it. You deceive it and silence it, but the reality is that the donations of these people who have been mobilised have exceeded 89 million in total. This is a great support for the National Health System. It also set up a committee of very high prestige, with the President-in-Office of the Council of State, Mr Sotiri Rizzo, precisely to oversee this donation process and its closure and accounting. It has finally created the electronic register for monitoring patients diagnosed with COVID -19, because unfortunately there is not an electronic patient register in our hospitals. It developed, in collaboration with the Ministry of Digital Governance, the system of e-prescription, thus facilitating the lives of thousands of insured people and of course exploiting the courtesy of the Greek Shipowners' Association, which I thank from this Step, fully renovating - of course, this will end in 2020 - two thousand eight hundred and seventy sanitation areas in all hospitals in Attica. We all know why we have visited them, in what state these sanitary areas are. Finally, it implements the construction of the new hospital in Komotini and purchases two aircraft and two airplane helicopters, with the courtesy of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. And what started over your days and you disobeyed that. But all this is not self-evident, nor, of course, expected at a time of crisis. But what happened to SYRIZA? What we received from the National Health System was analysed in the tradition - the receipt of the Ministry and the press conference that was held at the time by the Minister of Health, but the reality is that at that time we had received a system that was ill and diseased both in the quality of the services provided and in the financial management. And I want to make such a point here, because thousands of recruits had actually been called in if I count them. Mr. Tsipras in 2017 had spoken of 15 thousand, Mr. Xanthos in 2018 had spoken of six thousand, Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Xanthos together in 2019, before the elections, had spoken of eight thousand. So if I count them, it was over twenty thousand. Finally within four and a half years of governance, what has happened is that they have become less than four thousand recruits. Indicatively, as the Minister said, out of the thousand six hundred eighteen posts of doctors of the ESS in 2018, at the end of 2019, the roughly fifty-four posts had been covered, i.e. a 22% percentage had been completed. Further, during your administration, what you have done was that you have increased the amount allocated for recruitment, but for recruitment of subsidiary staff and therefore not for permanent recruitment. In hospitals, the evidence was heartbreaking. I regret to say that one in two hospitals did not deliver the patient's computer file. Also, I regret to say that the financial management of the three in the four hospitals did not provide a system for recording waiting time in the TLP. Finally, of course, I regret to say that we have had no balance sheets. In 2018 eighty-five of eighteen hospitals had not published a balance sheet. When we call on small public limited companies to prove in fact that their financial management should be fully transparent and balance sheet publications, here we have hospitals which have not published a balance sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u74	Hospitals are not private companies, my colleague! It's not a chain...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Blonde, please, let it be completed. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u76	Finally, the absence of the control mechanisms is also a very important issue, which of course does not only concern the period of governance of the SYRIZA. This issue, of course, has been dealt with and dealt with by all governments and will be dealt with by our own government. The reality is, however, that this absence of the control mechanism also increases the pharmaceutical expenditure and we all know it. It's magnifying the clawback. Finally, in relation to the EMCDDA, the Central Procurement Authority, and there we saw that this principle was discredited. It was reappointed because during its two years of operation only two central tenders had been opened. Why are we saying it's important to make the main competitions? And that is something that our government will go ahead with and implement. For this is how the costs of the Greek public are saved, the costs and resources of the Greek citizens. Therefore, in this context of lack of programming and insufficient control, it is at least excessive to go into the question he had put about effective financial management. Now, in relation to the care of the uninsured, I am tired, ladies and gentlemen, to hear that the famous care of the uninsured ones has been brought by you. You have not brought her, like you, dear colleague, Mr. Xanthi, you have admitted. On the contrary, the previous one brought it from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u77	The previous government brought in uninsured!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Igoumenides, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u79	In particular, he had come by ministerial decision on 5-6 2014, in FEK 1465 B. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Zoe Raptis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] To conclude, three hundred forty doctors, a percentage of the 28.5%, were hired in connection with the TMIs as well. So that's not a success. Ladies and gentlemen, in this crisis, as our Prime Minister has said, we are not simply supporting the National Health System, but are preparing it for its new course in the 21st century. From the battle against the coronary we will use what we have achieved and further develop the country's health shield. Having restored the confidence of the citizens to the state again, we will continue to work collectively with the power and solvency of the Greek state and with the top nursing, medical and administrative staff and we will implement our election commitments for quality public health, for transparent administration of public structures, for additional staff where there is a need, for full use of IT, with a patient record, to centralise health supplies, in support of primary care, as the Minister said. In this context, we will also take advantage of the private initiative to offer better public health services to all citizens. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to contribute with your know-how with specific projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the horn pandemic is a subversive and, at the same time, shocking event. He brought public health issues to the focus of discussions around the world. He made citizens, governments, entrepreneurs, brought numerous donations, at least in our country, to shield the National Health System. This global interest is a juncture which, for the moment, removes politics from the economic field, budgetary rationalisation, economic rigour, austerity in arithmetic correlations and mathematical models and brought it where it was supposed to be, close to man and his needs, to anguish to protect his health and to enjoy rightfully better health, better hospitals, better cures and, ultimately, better quality of life. As we learn more and more about the functioning and reaction of this aggressive coronary strain that has quarantineed the whole planet, we have the opportunity to clearly identify those policies that will support the new priority of Greek society, the strengthening of public health, the regeneration of the ESS, the reconstruction of the public structures that support the sanitary structure. However, the Government of the New Democracy remains untrue and inert. It shows to rest on its laurels by the successful, results-based management of the pandemic, the daily popular hegemony and the dynamics, given by comparison with the model of governance of SYRIZA that the citizens denounced in the last elections. The reality, however, is that until now almost a year after the takeover of governance, you have not yet revealed your design, your program, your aim. It distinguishes you with a procrastination, an atmosphere, which is the only clear position that you intend to have for patches and arrangements and not for reforms, for forward changes and initiatives that Greek society needs. But it is particularly strange that SYRIZA, who blames the New Democracy for acts and omissions he did as a government up to ten months ago. No one forgets about the last four years, when from extreme radicalism you became more persuasive partners of the troika. You promised hiring the ESS, but the hospitals with subsidiary staff through the ESS and the OAED were working. You promised three hundred and twenty-four TOMY and three thousand recruits. You did only a hundred twenty - seven, and you hired eight hundred staff. Even the positive initiatives you have taken with regard to medicine with the establishment of the evaluation committee, you have not completed them. You have been committed to your own ideals and your indecisiveness. Your government past may facilitate the management of the health sector by the Government of New Democracy, but it is far from the virtual world of perfection that is trying to communicate to the citizens. In particular, we expect you to make the recruitments that the ESS needs. Towards a coronary there were about four to five thousand. No one knows exactly the number. What are you doing for now? Follow previous courses, with subsidiary doctors, contracted nurses and while shortcomings in paramedics and administrative staff are still large. As far as the recruitment of subsidiary nurses was concerned, you circumvented the ranking tables by recruiting staff with party criteria having the most recent ones. We heard a moment ago that they're going to be permanent. Sounds reasonable. As long as they're party good, that's what's gonna happen. While applauding the balconies, you have refused three times to vote on the amendment, which the Change Movement for the inclusion of health workers into heavy and unhealthy health. How will the system fund tomorrow? Will you increase the state budget for public health? If you expect that over the course of the pandemic you will bring the contractors, the PPPs and the private, back out of the window. Will you increase the EEA budget? Without a transformation of EEAS, from a static and uninspired accounting company to a health service provider with vision and aim of humans, no reform is effective. How far will the implementation of your announcements on digitalisation of health services and the broad application of telemedicine, which have been set from 2010 to 2011? What stage is the implementation of the individual patient dossier and the completion of the electronic prescription system? Will there be accountability for the work carried out by the FMDs? I would remind you that in February 2020, the Change Movement made for the first time a public proposal to set up mobile biological material reception units, care for patients with CIVID -19 and vulnerable groups, elderly and chronic, a proposal that, while it could transform the system of prevention and tracking, was transformed by the government into a method of collapsing and recruitment without criteria and testing, turning us into the pre-Association era, where it was enough for an application and a party union to be recruited to the public. You refused to consent to our proposal to choose hospital administrations with an unstable ASP procedure on the basis of specific qualifications rather than party identity. Will your chosen men account for their bad choices in the pandemic? Open the border for tourists, leaving our islands and remote areas without a health shield. While you do not intake in health centers, you try to cover gaps with staff and hospital movements. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens do not forget that the only party that supported public health in practice, clearly and firmly, and brought reforms, which took the system forward in spite of all the problems, was PASOK. Dare to bring to Parliament the changes needed by the National Health System to regenerate and respond to citizens' expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr George Lambroulis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, is called in Step VI.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. We are now in a new phase, just as difficult, complex and demanding in relation to the previous pandemic period. The government may have imposed the restrictive measures so as not to collapse the public health system - which is already on the brink of collapse - by gaining time, as government officials have said, except that this time was not used to make the necessary recruitment of health workers, to provide hospitals with the necessary means to enable the public health system to respond not only to a new pandemic wave but to the needs of the people in health services as a whole. Because no one guarantees that the tragic effects of the increased victims, which have been in other states, cannot be seen in Greece in a long time. The Government is talking about a change of attitude, meaning compliance with self-restriction measures, proclaiming individual responsibility for a basic medicine to deal with the pandemic. However, in health matters it cannot be a solution, if it does not, as it has been proved, to a state system developed at all its levels, fully staffed, if it does not obey a more general planning, but to meet the needs of the people. Because if something went bankrupt during the pandemic, it is the policy that sees health as individual liability and health services. Because it is this policy that is responsible for the misery of the public health system, the tragic shortages of staff and infrastructure, the intensification of work, the wandering of health from one unit to another to drill holes, cuts and increased payments for patients, ranches and long-term waiting lists. This policy, which, over time and successively, all governments carried out to date, is responsible for the fact that in the 21st century an entire NSA was converted into a coronary - ESY, in order to meet the needs of the epidemic, without being able to combine the control and care of patients from the coronary on the one hand and, on the other, the care of patients with other diseases, by suspending operation and decommissioning entire sections and clinics. This policy has left up millions of chronic diseases patients, braked the diagnosis and treatment of even tumor patients with unknown health consequences, which are not reflected in statistics, of course, for the coronary. And here we have the emergence of a completely contradictory phenomenon in the pandemic period. So instead of the'strategic' of all health to be on the front line - like all public and private units - a large part has been decommissioned and abandoned. And it is the decommissioning, the decommissioning of a large part of health - and units - that reflects the anti-grassroots character and orientation of the health system, private and public. It is this policy - whether right-wing or right-wing - which is in favour of a public health system, but whose main direction is to trade and business activity. And it is a good hypocrisy to squeeze all of you into all the falls of interest for the public sector, when all of you have sold it out and are trying to manipulate the people by identifying the social feeling of the public sector with the policy of marketing and business action of the public health system. And precisely the downside of the public sector on the one hand and the state of the soundness and giganticness of the private sector on the other, on the other, are the two sides, the two sides of the same currency, the policy pursued over time, consistently by all governments, since you serve the same strategy, the strategy of competitiveness. Of course, you disagree on the individual management issues. Thus, there is reference, for example, to public funding in the question, when, for four and a half years, SYRIZA continued to under-finance the ESS, increased the payments of patients for exams, medicines and others, persevering the status of subsidiary and all kinds of flexible working relationships for workers in hospitals, strengthening trade and business activity in public health, otherwise, hospitals, but forcing people to go to the private sector with non-injurious work. The New Democracy Government is now coming and it talks about PPPs, either for private use, on the basis of financial instruments as it stands. In other words, instead of going to private business and paying there for health benefits, it will go to public hospitals where it will also pay for health services in public hospitals - businesses. We ask: What prevented previous governments, but what prevents you from getting out of the state budget and financing the hospitals? What prevented you and what prevents you from perpetuating thousands of workers with various contracts in hospitals and in primary health care when we know all the needs in hospitals that touch some tens of thousands, about thirty thousand, perhaps less? Are the four hundred supplementary doctors, for example, unnecessary, and the two thousand ASs and other health care professionals recruited during the pandemic period? Do you not need, for example, 20% of the hospital workers, who start counting the months in reverse before they are fired? Because instead of hiring all the necessary permanent medical staff, you hire private doctors, for example, with a block, taking another step towards marketing and privatising health. Obviously the gaps will continue to exist in the ESS, as has, moreover, been confessed some time ago by the Secretary of State for Labour. The new ESS, announced by the government, cannot only objectively be made up of the same old materials of privatisation and health trade, of the policy facing the people's health as a cost to be reduced, of expenditure to be streamlined to ensure the profits of the few, precisely in the standards of health systems of other capitalist countries in the European Union - and not just - which have collapsed from a virus with hundreds of dead people. The truth is, however, that the same policy which has brought us here continues and is intensified: cuts, cost criteria - benefits, privatisation and marketing of health services. And that is exactly what this policy is all about. Its consequences have been revealed both before and during the pandemic and it is certain that it will continue in the next period. And this policy is the great culprit, which in practice cancels the great scientific and technological opportunities that exist today to meet all the needs of prevention and care of the people. This policy must be aimed at workers, health workers, our people to claim a universal and free state health system by abolishing all business activities developed at all levels of primary school with emphasis on the prevention, of course, of secondary, tertiary and, by extension, fully staffed with all the necessary permanent staff, infrastructure, medical equipment to meet not only the regular and continuously expanded needs, but also the emergency needs of our people, with full, adequate and exclusive funding from the state budget. That is why, on the occasion of the pandemic, there is also one - if you wish - a teaching conclusion in our view that workers need to take into account and of course have a time-consuming value. Design and develop health structures at all levels, prevention and early diagnosis, management, epidemiological vigilance planning and public health protection, are incompatible with profit laws, competition laws and the free market that you all of course serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much. It is called in Stepma, Vassilios Villiardos, a member of parliament with the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a thrilling suggestion from the Minister for Health, extremely communication. With communication, however, problems are not solved, none of the citizens' problems are solved, worsened, and when they realize it is already too late. Ten years experience it now, and there's still no light on the edge of the tunnel. At first, we all agree that we really had a few victims in Greece as well as in the other Balkans mainly because of the winter season that was not a tourist movement, as well as our limited interconnection with the dangerous areas as documented by the large number of victims in cities such as Milan, Madrid, London or New York, which had greater international interconnectivity. We therefore welcome this result and congratulate the government. However, we agree with SYRIZA that it is not justified for the New Democracy to be subjected to and for political exploitation of the fact, let alone when we do not know how the situation is going to develop in the summer with tourism, while there is already an increase in cases with the relaxation of measures, especially in areas of mass entertainment, which is happening in many other countries. The main reason for success was probably the limitation of economic activity with the locking down of our economy, which was imposed at about the same time as the rest of the European Union and after the United States had closed its borders. An important cause was the exemplary compliance of the Greeks, which appeared in the Easter celebration where they even sacrificed their traditional exit to the province, let alone the celebration of the Resurrection, which in Athens was truly touching. All this, of course, happened because of the dissolved public health system, which destroyed the memoranda, which all our governments irresponsibly signed after 2010, recalling that even the IMF had admitted that the cuts were non-productive, as we will be tabling in the minutes afterwards. After all, we are all aware of the sharp reduction in health expenditure in Greece, as well as in Italy and Spain as part of their silent memoranda. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If the memorandum had not been mediated, we would have avoided the horizontal closure of our economy with its disastrous results for our country. A closure that has unfortunately been selected and implemented completely and also wrongly. In particular, we will repeat that in Denmark, on the one hand, there has been an investigation into the proportionality of the measures taken for the pandemic, on the other hand, due to the fact that the Prime Minister has decided to do so on her own, taking the Parliament's approval back. In Greece, of course, where even the PPPs are unilaterally decided and implemented by the government, and they are retrospectively coming to the House for their preliminary debate and vote, no investigation has been required. Whilst the locking of the economy in the House has not come - it has been decided by anyone but the government - despite the fact that any disproportionate measures may seem to cause enormous damage to our economy. So democracy in our country is indeed in constant quarantine not only during the pandemic period. We therefore consider that the conduct of a similar investigation with Denmark is also necessary in Greece to find out at least what criteria were decided on both the locking and the other measures, as well as whether legal proportionality has been respected. Continuing on the subject of international research, while it is not well known about its biology of how to spread it, about whether governments, the World Health Organisation or others are responsible for spreading it, such as weather or genetic factors, about its various mutations, if you are sick again, if you really create antibodies and so on. We should therefore not precede. And we are already discussing issues of compensation from China to countries such as Germany and the United States. Other issues, which are related to the control of societies and the deprivation of personal freedoms, the burden of small businesses, at the same time as large ones such as supermarkets or electronic stores, etc. And we are sceptical about the issue of drugs, knowing how criminally pharmaceutical companies often work, as well as against the obligability of vaccines and electronic monitoring systems for people. At a practical level now SYRIZA's question has little to do with the measures to deal with the virus. On the other hand, it aims at the political exploitation of the issue just like the New Democracy, which covers the problems of its failure policy in the economy - which has already appeared since the last quarter of the year - behind the pandemic. As we have said, the government did not save us from the virus, but the government's virus, which will prove to be very soon. As for the good words of the European Union, which the Prime Minister mentioned before, Germany always supports the countries that it sucks and the appointed governments. In any case, SYRIZA thinks we are suffering from political amnesia, forgetting that the budgetary factors which make the measures proposed by the medium-term programme that he has voted for and then applies faithfully to New Democracy, which in turn has forgotten about the renegotiation of surpluses and the growth of 4%. In this respect, the medium-term forecast of 116 million for the hospital balance for 2019, while the forecast in the budget was only 109 million. For 2020, New Democracy provided for 86 million and reduced it to about 50 million. In a budget that we had described as unrealistic from the outset. The first quarter is confirmed by the recession. Of course, the comparison of the Prime Minister of our recession with the recession of the rest of Europe had no sense since our economic model is based on tourism and the rest of Europe's industry. It's something completely different. However, the question of aid to the media, which you are addressing, is a great, scandalous and unacceptable one. It is irrelevant to the coronary because the government is simply buying up the tolerance of the media if not their support. In conclusion, we have proposed concrete measures -'measures by measure' - as a responsible party is required to know the plight of the Greek economy and does not want to exploit politically, that is, in a bad way, the issue of the coronary. In addition, we are certainly saddened by the effort of all three parties that destroyed Greece to hide their crimes behind the virus and their supposed concern for the health of the Greeks, which should, if they were, really interested, before they all dissolved the health system, as evidenced by dozens of statistics among them in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. We will close the circle of parliamentary representatives with Mrs Fotini Bakada. Mrs Bakadima MEP II speaks from Mera25
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the National Health System is a system established in 1983 by the first government of Andreas Papandreou in the context of the reform and upgrading of public health and functional integration of the care structures with a view to covering the needs of the citizens. It is a health system that I have remembered - in 1983 I was very young, but in all the years to come - it is not very often that I heard it mentioned and described it as a great patient. If we look at various publications, particularly in the period just before the crisis of the last ten years, but also during that period, we will read a little - very little - the same problems without having, unfortunately, any improvement, I would say more or less, change towards the worst, because of the memorandum policies and the financial adjustment they have imposed. In 2019 in ‘SHEPA’ serious deficiencies in nursing and medical staff, closed beds, damaged machines, typified infrastructures in microbiological laboratories with the latter being housed in underground, patient envelopes located at flood mercy. It reminds me very much of the state of Nice of which I received my election from citizens' complaints from the Second Piraeus. I continue: serious deficiencies in auxiliary staff, traumatists, bankers, chamber assistants, laundry workers. In 2013 lack of personnel in too many structures in the country, continuous expenditure cuts and unpaid newspapers that had created an explosive climate in hospitals with medical and nursing staff trying to meet the needs of the increased volume of patients. For 2016 some indicative references will be made as the list is really great. The "Siminoglio", although torso hospital, had two CT scanners inoperative. Naoussa General Hospital the CT scanner damaged. Patients were transferred for consideration to public hospitals in Thessaloniki or private centers. In Nice five surgical tables cannot be used because they are broken and the surgery projectors are not working. At Lefkada Hospital, a 20-year CT scanner operates in which proper maintenance was not carried out. The old radiological machines worked with many problems. The ultrasound was broken most of the time. At Corfu Hospital the CT scanner is old technology and is not well maintained. It was repaired with a used lamp from Alexandroupolis Hospital. Let us now go to a recent WTO complaint on the current situation in hospitals and health centres in our country. In Kefalonia shortages of medical and nursing staff and paramedical staff, gaps in specialties, shortages in equipment because they were selected to be transferred to another hospital at Patras Hospital. ID remains closed. In Zakynthos it works mainly with subsidiary doctors and nurses. Now the masturbator has started to work. In Samos, shortages in medical and nursing staff. There's no pneumonologist. The only pneumonologist is in the ICU, so there's no external pneumonology. Paediatrician only one in the last two years. Yes, a number of ancillary staff and injured persons were hired, but it is not enough. The EMCDDA is trying to respond, but when it does, it often does so late. In Rhodes, fifteen supplementary doctors recruited during the pandemic period as a whole in medical and nursing staff. Lacks of traumatists, doctors, nurses. Old and unconscious machines. And the list continues with the state of health centers being much worse. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Second Pireaus Region, I am on a daily basis receiving complaints about State Nice, about the shortcomings, poor maintenance of buildings and machinery, the problems of feeding and much more. Health centers in two other municipalities of my region, in Keracini, Drapetsona and Perama, have not yet been opened. All we can hope for is that they will be delivered in good time. The Salamis Health Centre and this operates with huge shortages and problems that make people's lives difficult every day. Minister, I know I'm not telling you anything new. You are aware of all shortcomings and problems. Of course, I also do not blame you solely on all the bad texts. Unfortunately, the ESS has been devalued over time, and that is why the problems are now for years. But I will give you the responsibility for the gradual admission of individuals to hospitals in the country that starts with cowards - cowardly PPP programmes. These are programmes that seem to seem to seem like they are not going to change, but we feel it is certain that they open up a ferry for individuals who want to enter the health sector. But I will support you and the current state of hospitals and health centers after eleven months of your own governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the first phase of the pandemic has been completed with a positive signal on the path of the virus in the country, which should be credited primarily by the Greek people and by the superhuman efforts of all health personnel, the under-represented, under-financed and devastated NS. I think this is something we can all agree on. The health crisis has shown us the need to defend public health and not to create a new PPP-based PPP-based SSS by creating a health for a few, with many to be content with battered treatment. Employees in the ESS, doctors, nurses and staff of all branches that are on the front line every day, guards, cleaners, bankers and all others must have our practical support with the recruitment of permanent and non-adjudicial staff, with the payment of overtime and on-calls and on-call tests for all and a gradual restoration of wage cuts that have been made in recent years. We won't support them with applause. The Minister said just before in his prototype - I would like him to be here to have an answer - that he is the guardian of the ESS. We would, however, like to know sincerely whether we all have the same ESS in mind when we talk about it, because I fear that the new ESS that the Minister and the New Democracy has, what they publish, is made of the same old materials of privatisation, health trade and a policy that tackles the health of the people, the health of the citizens as a cost that needs to be reduced as much as possible with the sole aim of guaranteeing and increasing the profits of the few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Let's go back to the honourable Members. Mr. Xanthos, you're in the sixteen minutes, and I'll give you a few minutes. Mr. Andreas Xanthos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I think that we have had a productive debate and, apart from the climate change attempted by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, I believe that it is taking place in a tone of awareness of the difficulty of the major challenges, especially those which exist for both the country and its people and for the health system. The Minister said it was a lot of questions. Obviously, there were many questions why there were too many issues, but I think that the question can finally be summarised in one. The real question, that is, the policy we have put through this intervention, was whether the New Democracy has indeed changed a line and is now moving towards a reasonable support and strengthening of the public health system, or now that the pressure phase will return to its normal line, the least state, the shrinking public system, the creation of a vital space for the private sector. The answer to this question, our political response, based on the debate before us, is that no line has been changed, will be restored precisely to that logic. I would remind you that they have been said by mouth at the time of the Head of the New Democracy - there are in the Minutes and we can find them - peaks against the SYRIZA saying that there cannot be rational management of the health system and overcoming doctors and a deficit of nurses. Mr. Mitsotakis said that. Fortunately, at this time no one dares to talk about excess doctors, but also this reluctant step, the limited step you have taken with the recruitment of contractors, my dear Minister, will be completely at a time when it will not be accompanied by a plan of permanent recruitment. We've been telling you this for so long, and we haven't got any answers. So I say this directly - because Mrs Raptis mentioned earlier - you have not moved forward on our own initiative, with your own design, with your own Ministerial Act, with your approval by the co-legislative ministries in neither a permanent declaration to the public health system nor a year this year. The nine hundred and forty-two, to which my colleague referred, are clearly places initiated by the previous government, came into the air, frozen because of the elections, eight months have passed to escape and of course they must go ahead. Not even the other ones of a thousand five hundred who had taken PSF for 2019 and which you have announced since December 2019 that you will be proclaiming them, not now, after a semester and in the middle of a pandemic and in the midst of such a major crisis you have not taken this step. Not one, not to know what we're talking about! Also, in his honor, the Minister recognised the step in covering uninsured persons. You, Mrs. Rapt, once again say this thousand-year-old theory that this was covered by you. Make a decision: Or the Minister renounces us that we have covered them, but without guaranteeing the extra resources or having covered them, they are not both. The world knows very well that this was the great intersection - the intersection of universal coverage was a great intersection - which took place in the crisis, in the memorial, in the austerity, precisely because there was political will and there was social sensitivity and bias towards the weak and the excluded. Just because the inequalities in health care are not tolerated for us, that is why it went on this step, and of course neither the hospitals were derailed financially nor deficits have there been nothing because there was a household management. Primary health care: Also, here you cannot give up on us because we did not implement our plan and we were able to open only 50% in conditions of austerity and memorial of the new public structures that were launched. New public structures had twenty years to open up to the health system. So we only managed a hundred and twenty - seven to open, fifty percent of the target. And you forsake us for this, the moment it's been a year and it hasn't opened one. And of course you do and you do, we have no problem with evaluation, and we are sure that the work produced in these structures is positive and people are already assessing it positive. I hear some things from some medical clubs, mainly from the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, who fought this reform hard, and that is why to a certain extent, but also because of Brain Drain, we did not have the response we wanted to do to family doctors. I hear they say 'but only two out of ten citizens have a family doctor, eight out of ten have no family doctor in the country'. Of course, before this change there was no citizen who had a family doctor from the public health system. So we managed to cover both of the ten. You have added one more than that. Now on this idea of the network which we will also discuss: obviously there must be a network of the services involved in primary care. The question is what parts of the chain do we want to strengthen? Will we just have a chain, or will we strengthen public structures, and will the correlation change? And one last thing, because I really think that this position was unsuccessful by the Minister whose attitude I really appreciate - and the State Secretary - was because at this time he tried to have a channel of communication and low tone, because they all understand the difficulty of the situation. To tell us, then, that inequalities in the health sector have been widened, huh, but it is a manifest falsification of the truth! I told you. There is an indicator that is the indicator of inequality. It's the unsatisfied medical needs. This indicator was in our country before the crisis in 4% of the population, it went to 14.4% - when the average in Europe is 2%, to have an image - was ejected in the first five years of the crisis and fell four points in SYRIZA. Now it's at 10.4% with 2018 figures. This means a political reduction in inequalities. I have never claimed that obviously with some magic wand we transformed reality. What we have ensured, however, with a huge effort, is survival and reliability and functionality, and above all accessibility to the public health system. And that, I think, cannot question it. And one last thing, and I'm closing up with it. The Public Health Act you recently voted, Dear Minister, has already appeared in practice to have been inferior to the circumstances. It was also pointed out to you by experts at the time, people involved in public health. You ignored it. This law already cannot include the new needs arising from the pandemic, the creation, for example, of a permanent mechanism for epidemiological surveillance and intervention. It gave a great deal of basis to the behavioural factors, ignored other social denominators and, above all, there was no investment in public health services. Because they don't only need doctors and nurses in the NSA. They also need public health and social medicine doctors, public health supervisors, working doctors need a set of health professionals who can actually shield these services. This is the great lesson for us. These are the new needs that have emerged and gained high social acceptance. We must, in seriousness and with a plan, move forward in the next period, in order to convene with the averages of Europe, not only in the intensive beds, which are of course right, but also in public spending and in the institution of the family doctor for primary care and in the number of nurses and in all the indicators that will actually make us a serious and equal European country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Papadopoulos, I have to ask you if you want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u91	No, I'm covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u92	So I'll give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr. Vassiliou Kontozamani for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. After what the Minister has said, I would like to give some clarification of what has been developed during the prototypes and abbreviations of the honourable Members. He said at the beginning of his position, Mr. Paulakis, who had dreams, what would happen to the pandemic if the previous government had not supported the health system with financial resources. Let me say that since last July, when we took over the country's governance, we have experienced a nightmare in order to carry out the health system, the proper functioning of hospitals and the supply of them. As far as regional machinery is concerned, yes, there have been actions. Machinery is coming from the Attica Region with the actions of the previous government, the previous administration in the region. However, I must remind the House that these machinery has been extended for delivery, because there has been no decision on technical work to complete the hospitals' premises, so that these machinery can be welcomed. No prep! And I shall refer to the example of the 'Saint Savva'. The new administration completed the construction work in just one month. All this, all this tech equipment, like the magnetic tombographer, the radiotherapy machine, was delivered. Specifically, the MRI surrendered on May 24th and early July will enter into operation. And until the end of June, the rest of the equipment, like the radiotherapy machine, enters into operation. He needs preparation. It doesn't just matter how we get these machines. As far as recruitment is concerned, it was also made clear by the Prime Minister in the morning on the Prime Minister's time and by the Minister for Health that we intend to permanently permanentize the nursing staff. We also have a plan for recruitment, because you know, Mr Xanthi, how recruitment is planned in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, how the acts of the Ministerial Council are given, the appropriations. And you know very well - because you have nursed the Ministry of Health - that there are acts of the Ministerial Council, appropriations from previous years, but that these positions have not yet been met, and there are positions that have been declared barren. We have designed immediately to start the process of filling these posts and go to new credits in order to meet needs with permanent solutions to the health system. I should also like to remind you that during the koruna period we have taken measures to support workers in the health system. Not only the exceptional allowance, the temporary salary, which was paid, but we have legalised by exceeding the additional newspapers, as we had done last October. We changed the plaque to the extra on-calls from 9% to 15%, so that there's no problem. It was said by a MP of Mera25 that they have left unpaid on-calls. No on-call is left unpaid and no on-call will be unpaid. With regard to primary health care, let me say that the bill that in 2016 the SYRIZA government actually passed in the majority of it was about some changes, but most importantly wanted the SYRIZA government to get rid of at the time of the name that we gave to the SYRIZA, the National Health Network. And what did you do? You first legislated on the recruitments that would be made in local health units in a bill of mental health, and then you brought the law to the vote on primary health care. And they're local groups even not local units. You will see our comprehensive plan for primary health care soon. And yes, there is also planning at last to have services of mental health at primary level. For it is an area where our country has been suffering for all these years. And we move forward with more recruitment for the new intensive care units, so that these units can quickly be deployed as soon as bed extensions are completed in these units. But we're doing something else. We established nursing skills so that, as doctors do, the nurses as soon as they finish their schooling at higher education institutions are available to the health system and can be trained and qualified. A reference has been made to the recruitment of the EKA, the National Centre for Direct Aid. Indeed, in 2016, 7K were recruited two hundred sixty-three rescuers and another forty-four later with one previous notice, three hundred twenty-seven overall rescuers in the EAW. However, between 2015 and 2018, two hundred and thirty people were retired by the EKA. So we must always see the balance and not just stand by the recruitment that is being done. Mr. Xanthos, I am in favour of the view that the New Democracy has covered the uninsured, something we have discussed in Parliament, with two ministerial decisions in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u94	Voucher.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u95	No, voucher is different. It was done by two ministerial decisions of Mr Adoni Georgiadis and Mr Maki Voridis. You then came to these decisions and covered some other cases. So we're not socially analgesic or less sensitive. We had the will and we did it to cover the uninsured, as we do now. And you know very well, especially as far as pharmaceutical expenditure is concerned, that the expenditure on uninsured persons has exceeded EUR 300 million. We are talking about a health system whose costs really need to reach Europe's average. And, as the Minister said in his report, it does not matter how much we spend on health, but how we spend them, namely how we make efficient use of resources. And let me say once again that, unfortunately, all these years the National Health System has been public, because we are the third most privatised health system throughout the world, after America, Mexico and South Korea, if I'm not mistaken. So we really need to strengthen the public health system and reduce the burden on households. You know, Mr Xanthi, that the catastrophic health expenditure of households is too high in relation to the European average. It has also been said - and we have said so many times also in questions that we have answered, but also in sanctions for acts of legislative substance - about the role of primary health care in the coronary. It was impossible - and it wasn't supposed to be - to take all primary care of health and take it to secondary level, in order to deal with the coronary. There was a plan. The primary health care was ready, and even largely worked as part of our preparation with health centres exclusively for COVID -19 and with the primary network. We lived and saw on-call images of the country's hospitals reminiscent of the 15th, such as empty hospitals on the day of the on-call. What does that show? The important role of primary health care, which can really be the embezzlement, so that the citizen does not go unnecessarily to hospitals for health services. Mrs Agathopoulos referred to the vaccine. I've never recalled anything I've said about the vaccine. The Prime Minister himself has said that there must be a common strategy for vaccine research and development and for how countries will have it at their disposal. As far as the Valletta Initiative is concerned, you know, Mr Xanthe - and the Minister said so very well - that yes, it is a very good initiative which we support, but unfortunately it has not worked until now. I wish we could make it. There were similar difficulties in the pandemic period for the common supply of equipment and materials to deal with the flu pandemic. Mr. Pulas from the Change Movement said there were party assignments and that that is why we want to permanently permanentize the ancillary staff. I would like to say to the House that the recruitment of ancillary staff is carried out through a specific procedure, by electronic platforms and with full transparency. It is a task of the previous government and I think that no one doubts the transparency and completeness of the procedure followed for the recruitment of subsidiary staff. Finally, let me say this. Some have wondered what this new ESS will be like. Indeed, we need a new National Health System, because the National Health System has completed its pension years. It has completed thirty-five years of operation. And we all know that there have been too many things in these thirty-five years. The capacity of a system is not measured by the square meters of the facilities and by the number of beds only, but is measured by how much a health system can respond to the needs of the citizens, the needs of the citizens as a whole, but also by the needs of each individual patient who comes to the health system. And that is our aim, to build a new health system focusing on each citizen, so as to meet the needs that are growing in our country and to be able to use efficient resources, quality health services and, of course, the maximum level of health in the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Mr. Balafa, would you like to answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u97	No, Mr President, the Undersecretary has said everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u98	So you're covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u99	We're covered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u100	The debate on the number 22/11/27/2020 topical question is closed, on the subject: 'The problems in the management of the pandemic and the priorities for the next day in the National Health System'. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the following sittings have been distributed: Wednesday 11 March 2020, Thursday 12 March 2020, Friday 13 March 2020, Tuesday 17 March 2020, Wednesday 18 March 2020, Thursday 19 March 2020 and Thursday 26 March 2020, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u101	The minutes of Wednesday 11 March 2020, Thursday 12 March 2020, Friday 13 March 2020, Tuesday 17 March 2020, Wednesday 18 March 2020, Thursday 19 March 2020 and Thursday 26 March 2020 were validated. And since I thank you all, I would like to wish you a good weekend, the Virgin Mary with you, with the good wherever you go, and especially to see you on Monday! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-12-S1-commons.u102	With the agreement of the House at 16.46 p.m., the sitting on Monday, 15 June 2020, at 14.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
