ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-7-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its PPZ meetings, Friday 24 July 2020, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law ‘Simplification of framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions’, were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Services Unit for Market Control, regulation of economic activity, dealing with illegal trade, fines for the movement and marketing of counterfeit/false products, regulation of issues for industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research, innovation and the Economic Chamber of Greece and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Kelles, has spoken for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretaries, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is working uninterruptedly towards achieving the strategic objective of strong and sustainable development, building a Greece light and self-power with steady steps. For this Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks gave us a strong mandate a year ago, which, led by the Prime Minister, we honour, implementing our commitments very quickly. Development is achieved under safety conditions. In parallel to the implementation of our programme, the government has successfully faced the unexpected pandemic of the coronary and the crisis it has caused in the global economy, as well as the unprecedented aggression of Ankara, which has attempted to violate our borders, by working on migratory flows. In addition, in recent days, we have again been faced with Turkey's attempt to challenge our sovereign rights in the Aegean Sea, following the shamefulness of the global heritage of transformation of Saint Wisdom into a mosque. And this time, however, the Prime Minister and the Government, through the Armed Forces and diplomacy, are defending our national security and sovereignty with determination and efficiency. We're not afraid. We have confidence in our powers. In addition to security, a prerequisite for strong and sustainable development is the operational cross-check of policies with a development mark, which our Government has also achieved through the Staff State, the reduction of taxation, investment law, digital governance, rural development measures and other legislation, which have upgraded respective public policies. Depending on this draft law, the Ministry of Development and Investment brings to the vote a coherent legislative framework aimed at improving the functioning of the market, supporting labour and entrepreneurship and strengthening research and innovation, respectively, through three harmonised sets of provisions. The first set defines the establishment of a strong control mechanism, the Market Control Unit, the EMEA, which will ensure the proper functioning of the market and protect the financial interests of consumers and businesses, by addressing the illegal trade in products and services in all its dimensions. The creation of the DIME will eliminate the duplication of responsibilities between the Directorate-General for Control and Observations of the Directorate-General for Market and Coordinating the Market and Management Centre and strengthen consumer and business protection in view of the country's international environment competitiveness. The management of the two existing control structures will be responsible for the implementation arm of the DIAMEA, which will be directly subject to the Minister for Development and Investment and its head office will be the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection. A control mechanism is set up in order to protect the internal market integratedly, to combat illicit traffic and trade in goods and services, to protect intellectual property, to create the value of trade marks, to increase the economic size of businesses, and to increase public revenue. In particular, at the operational level, the EMEA will have the following objectives. Firstly, checks to deal with illegal trade, the fight against misleading consumers, the detection of infringements, the preparation of audit reports and the imposition of the penalties provided for by its institutions. Secondly, together with the Directorate-General of the ILO, the drafting of the national strategic plan to deal with illegal trade. Thirdly, the establishment of mixed scales of control at local, regional or national level and their coordination, with the participation of the ILO, the Municipal Police, the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and their supervised bodies, the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Health Control Directorates, when the subject of their activities occurs. Fourthly, the preparation of studies, surveys and analyses to illustrate the situation on the market and to formulate proposals to improve the effectiveness of controls. Fifthly, with a view to the fulfilment of its mission, the EMCDDA will develop close cooperation with the EEAS - the National Information Service - and the National Transparency Authority, while providing for its cooperation with the relevant services of the other Member States of the European Union with international organisations and any body in the public or private sector which may contribute to its mission. The draft law fully regulates the organisation and staffing of the EMEA. Its structure in the autonomous Coordination and Support Department, the Interservice Cooperation Directorate for Market Control and the Electronic Trade Oversight Directorate meets the current operational needs, compiling a wide range of possibilities, from chemical analyses to olive oil control to the processing of information to enhance safety on electronic markets. In addition to the experienced officials who will be serving the DIAMEA, ten posts are provided for in the PPE Groups, two posts of the Port Authority and one post of an official of the IMO. The position of the commander is defined as an operational experience, and details of the training and training of managers, the 24-hour operation of the service and the fines for the handling and marketing of imitation/false products subject to its control are provided for. Therefore, DIAMEA constitutes a framework of protection for both consumers and the market that improves the business environment and strengthens the country's credibility as an investment destination. And here I am doing a parentheses. I heard during the drafting of the bill in committee by colleagues from counter-population and, in particular, by Mrs Jackson, that they had a ready plan for market control, which our government found in the drawer. Listen. This is an argument which we hear almost every piece of legislation and sometimes. So what I am sure of, and I can tell you according to the official figures, is that during the one year of New Democracy's governance, compared to last year, controls increased by 600%, infringement counts by 323%, the amount of fines by 470%, seizures by 712% and seizures by 1.135%. Therefore, I cannot understand why you kept such a bill in your drawer for four and a half years and who is, anyway, the one who doesn't let you apply it. But the numbers speak for themselves. They're relentless. I'm closing my parentheses, and I'm continuing. Furthermore, the second set of provisions is based on targeted work and entrepreneurship. First of all, as far as the regulations on outdoor trade and outdoor markets are concerned, they are people who are mostly self-employed and with the new framework for registering their activities will be more protected, since their documents will be more directly audited by the authorities, thereby ensuring better functioning of the markets. In addition, the possibility of setting up an IKE is granted exclusively through the One-Stop Service. And in conjunction with the possibility of microfinance recently introduced by our Government, it is possible for our fellow citizens who have no work and who are faced with the exclusion of becoming economically active and acquiring their own business. In other words, the aim of these provisions is double, since both labour and microenterprise are supported. A similar targeting is also the arrangements for the technical professions affected by the crisis and the reduction of building activity in previous years. The professional activities of plumbing facilities, the handling of work equipment, liquid and gaseous installations, industrial installations and electrodes, oxygen pumps, refrigeration installations and electrical installations shall be required every eight years to provide evidence of a service of at least three years within eight years, or to provide responsible declarations of good performance documenting an average annual turnover of at least 60% of their average annual income. According to their federations, many professionals are at risk of not meeting these goals. This will result in the withdrawal of their permits. This is why the new regulations stipulate for employees the reduction of documentation for two years instead of three, while for freelance professionals account for the submission of responsible declarations of good execution which document an average annual turnover of at least 40% instead of 60%. In addition, the procedure for obtaining a project machine operator’s licence shall be simplified. Work support should also be considered to extend the guidance of chambers and in particular the certification provided by the Technical Chamber of Greece by upgrading the structures and certification mechanisms to meet the conditions of the modern labour market. Analogous adaptation to modern conditions also entail changes to the Greek Chamber of Economics, which promote further research and scientific development and the activity of the body. At the same time, with the second set of provisions, the flexibility of economic activity is being strengthened and industry is being rekindled, and incentives are being provided for investment. As far as flexibility is concerned, in addition to provisions on the establishment of an IKE, arrangements are introduced that provide for participation in collective bodies by electronic means and for the upgrading of the integrated information system for the licensing and auditing, through which financial activities are disclosed and judged. The range of economic activities is also an update of the arrangements for the establishment of offices for foreign trade companies in our country. With regard to the regeneration of the industry, on the one hand, it provides for the extension of the deadline for the completion of the technical restructuring of the ship repair activities up to 31/12-2021, as part of the objective set by the Government for the regeneration of our shipyards, and, on the other, is set out in the Strategy of Smart Specialisation for the industry for the period 2021-2027. Both the European Commission and the Member States have promoted the digital transformation of industry and support for small and medium-sized enterprises through research and innovation. The General Secretariat for Industry will be responsible for implementing the strategy and ensuring the participation of industrial governance. As regards the attraction of investment, the extension of investment projects under the development law up to 31/12-2021, together with the provisions on incentives for major investment strategies for the national economy, form a reliable framework for the development of multiple economic activities. In this context, according to the draft law, the sports economy, with the inclusion of sports facilities in the development law aid schemes, is included. This is a regulation that will have multiple development benefits, particularly for the new generation. The third set of provisions relates mainly to young people and young people. For our government the support of the new generation is a national matter. Election aims to reverse Brain Drain. Apart from ensuring a good educational system, reversal is a condition of interconnecting research and innovation with the labour market. This is what we are trying to do, through the strategy of the Ministry of Development and the General Secretariat for Research and Technology. This draft law lays down, firstly, the amendment of the Code of Income Tax to deduct 100% of expenditure on scientific research and, secondly, the establishment of the National Register of Ingenuity Businesses to which startups will be registered. It is also provided for the reduction of taxable income, depending on the contribution to a newly registered firm, as well as the exemption or exemption from booking or insurance contribution from EIIG's scholarships. These are provisions which inextricably and harmoniously entangle the government's efforts to highlight and exploit the country's spiritual forces. Finally, following the three sets, the bill contains two distinct regulations which also have a strong development mark. The first arrangement concerns the central electronic register of public procurement, which strengthens the absorption of funds for the period 2014-2020. The second arrangement promotes the implementation of new or ongoing projects or studies by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Program in the context of the country's followed investment and development policy with resources from the Hellenic Company of Participators and Property SA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the investment law and the start of work in Greek, after two decades of old age, the Ministry of Development brings in a draft law bearing the seal of the Mitsotakis Government. In other words, it really has development content and orientation, because it seeks to support professionals, businesses and investment, together with the development of scientific proposals that help to increase the competitiveness of our economy on a lasting and long-term basis, leading the country to the era of strong and sustainable development, in the New Democracy era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u4	Mr Janakopoulos has asked for the floor for a question. Please, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr Georgiadis, I see here that two amendments were tabled by the Ministry of Development on Friday night. One has fifteen sub-committees within it. In any case, I understand that the House is going to close on Friday and you want to take concrete action. However, we will see the amendments because, as you can see, neither in the committees have we been discussed in any way, we have been informed of their substance, as the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Jackson, has informed me. I am not going to talk about the amendments you have tabled. However, you must clarify this in this House because there has been an informal briefing during the Conference of Presidents last week that seventeen amendments are expected from the Ministry of Finance and ten amendments from the Ministry of Labour. If that is the intention of the government, I hope that, in order to be able to have a smooth meeting, these amendments will not come to today's debate at noon without the House being able to be informed of what they contain in detail. I would therefore like to make it clear from you whether the Ministers for Labour and Economic Affairs are guided by today's tabling these twenty-seven amendments or some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. Minister, make a clarification, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u7	First of all, my dear colleague, I would like to make it clear that, as far as the multiple amendments of the Ministry of Development are concerned, they have all been discussed in committees and at first reading and second reading. I've read one by one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u8	You made a report. You didn't bring them. You told us you were bringing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u9	Wait a minute. To be in touch with us. There are Minutes. I read one out of the amendments. I told you that I cannot tell you, because the General Secretariat of the Government wants to pass me through the DGV and they had not passed the DGV. You received them on Thursday, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and today we will discuss them in detail. There is no major political amendment within them. It is technical, but I agree to discuss them. And here there is no problem. These amendments will not cause any fuss. They're techniques.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u10	That's not the crucial...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u11	The one I had said, but it was tabled Friday, is the Ministry of Defence, on the new three-month extension of the Elefsina shipyard. I do not imagine that there is a person who does not want to vote on the amendment. It's incomprehensible. As far as many of the Ministry of Development are concerned, the issues have been announced both at first reading and at second reading. I too would have preferred, Mr President, that they should have been submitted with their DGV by the first committee. However, since we had a massive deposit of bills in the House, the State General Accounting Office could not take out the GDR. But we didn't have anything. That's what we've been through. In this bill today, others are not coming. In the course of the week, there will obviously be further amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u13	So they're not coming today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u14	We continue with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Theodora Jack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, to put myself on the fifteen amendments, which have been announced as titles - in this sense - in its previous drafting of committees and have never been discussed, nor have we even seen the bodies, I will need time. I ask beforehand, and I think other Members will do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, the curfew in Greece, like the parasitic economy as a whole, did not arise as a result of the recent ten-year crisis. It is a time-consuming phenomenon and we as a Parliament must legislate in a way that limits its negative impact on the country's fair economic development. In this way, one would expect this bill to take into account the fact that this is not a continuation of the social consultation, ladies and gentlemen, which SYRIZA had started to bring to the vote a complete and functioning draft law. As I have pointed out in all the previous discussions in the committees, however, the DIAMEA did not take into account the previous advancement, so it does not seem capable of responding to a question of the size and complexity of the blockade. This is an organic unit of the Ministry of Development, dependent on the will of the Minister concerned. The responsibilities of this new service are not clear. The framework for cooperation with other services is not clear, and the provision for interministerial cooperation is lacking. In fact, this is the abstention of the composition of the Pykeap, which - to answer the majority rapporteur - was founded by your own law in 2014 and by 2016 had zero controls. Zero. I mean, it was a corpse. We got a body in 2016 and we took it off, my dear colleague. And this is the result of the 2018 accounting report, where it appears that over the three years 2016-2017-2018 nine and a half thousand market-based checks were carried out on the market, which until then had absolutely nothing. The SAVEAP actually restores the structure you bring, which coincides with some of the existing structures of the General Secretariat for Consumers. You are not even simplifying the procedures and establishing it under no circumstances is a holistic plan to effectively combat the blockade. As a whole, the proposed control mechanism is not of an integrated nature, it is not supported by an integrated information system, although it claims to coordinate control, it does not include mechanisms and innovative audit procedures such as the supervision based on risk assessment, risk assessment sheets, programming, accountability, which requires a modern efficient and efficient single product surveillance system needed by the country and the market. The only encouraging element in the draft law on the proposed new market surveillance structure is the reference made to Article 4 that the DIFM is defined as a supervisory and management authority for the ‘Consumer protection and legitimate or appropriate provision of services’ in accordance with Article 130 of Law 4512/2018. This is because the new structure will follow the general principles for supervision and adopt the innovative tools for control and supervision introduced by SYRIZA's law 4512/2018, such as risk assessment supervision, use of control sheets for uniform controls, new model for sanctions, complaint management system, etc. Another problematic part of the DIAMEA is the possible duplication of responsibilities. A number of provisions of the bill provide for more specific competence in the field of various other public services, ministries or independent authorities. There is therefore a risk of confusion, overlapping and issues of legality and nullity identified by the bodies at the hearing, such as BSE. It must also be made clear what is not the case and what is not the case, what is abolished and what is excluded. The responsibilities of the IMO should be specified in detail so that they do not exceed the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of Industry on market surveillance and product conformity assessment in accordance with harmonised technical legislation. Another point I would like to make is the staffing of this new unit. The experience factor, which does not exist in the provisions of the bill, must be taken seriously into account in the selection process, because I consider it necessary for the Staff Committee to be seconded to civil servants who have successfully nursed throughout the entire range of state policy to address the blockage and the para-economic situation. Thereafter, it is necessary to specify a specific provision framework for working hours and the remuneration of officials of the Inter-Service Committee and to ensure from the outset all necessary motor and digital means to make this unit effective, beyond the conventional bureaucratic function of the State and the State. To conclude, with regard to the establishment of the EMEA, I would like to reiterate my proposal that there should be a calibration of the nature of the economic and social crime of the blockade. Because it is another thing that is a superhetten, which sells agricultural products without permission outside the local market areas or along the national and provincial roads. It is another thing that a seller of counterfeit industrial products selling his products inside or outside the popular markets, who is part of a circuit of interference and falsification of trademarks. And, of course, it is a completely different thing to identify illegal shipments of fuel, cigarettes, alcohol and other high-taxed products. So I think we should avoid the pointless workload of the unit's staff, take care of the bill on the maximum concreteisation of certain scales of the blockage and the paramilitary. I am linking these two fields, because the curfew means a huge volume of cash, which are obviously moving out-of-banks and, as they prove to be relevant studies, together with undeclared work, reach about 30% of the country's GDP. Apart from the need for a modern legal framework for e-commerce, which nowadays stands, I have pointed out - and I shall refer to this - that is, the hampered by the crisis in intellectual property products. And I have here to propose something. One of the greatest international wounds is the illicit trafficking of artistic products. And this, while the bill refers to it, I do not think that it can be dealt with as a problem by the unit, unless we plan to set up a special committee involving the copyright company of Greek creators and also the representatives of international artistic production providers. For example, today there are platforms which, unlike large international platforms such as "AMAZON" or "SPOTIFY", do not legally render the wages to artists as a result of an unknown height, but in any case huge tax evasion and avoidance of pay to artists. It is a very specific field which shows us, together with the upcoming expansion of teleworking of all kinds, the unpapered boundaries of nature and the economic object of the blockage and the misequal economy. In fact, as we all understand, this bill, which was placed as the highest priority of SYRIZA, should go far beyond the supervisory nature of the proposed legislation and refer to an ambitious system of control, protection of all aspects of the public interest relating to the movement of the product, namely consumer safety, national security and public revenue. SYRIZA calls for the creation of a modern body that will produce convincing results, which will draw up a specific strategic plan with actions, based on all the latest developments, which will specify the national strategic plan to combat the blockade and carry out strict checks with mixed steps, in full transparency, by publishing the data of controls on a monthly basis, a body that will account for and operate with transparency and integrity. Finally, a body capable of defending the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Articles 23 and 24, which have to do with participation in collective bodies of private-law legal persons by electronic means and the setting up of an IKE by electronic service respectively, I believe that they are moving in the right direction and are responding to the circumstances created by modern reality. Where we disagree is in Article 25, which provides for the re-establishment of an information system which gives licences to the people's markets. It will cause undue turbulence with the need to re-enrol and re-entry the already licensed traders into the new system, much more that new authorisation has been granted since 2018. All this unrest must be avoided if you decide to maintain the existing system by simply bringing some technical improvements. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment once again on the problem arising from Article 30, which the TEI defines as a unique certification body, excluding other professional bodies such as GSE, for example, whose Vice-President Bargaim here in Parliament has stated that there is, admittedly, confusion in terms of certifications or the Elevator Federation. Nor can professionals already certified, such as energy inspectors, be certified. The obligation to certify even certified engineers at the Polytechnic University, which you consider five years of study to be master holders, is a measure that rewards society itself, as the cost of certification of professionals moves to the market. This provision will serve as a pretext for healthy competition and rightly raises questions. I propose that other bodies can also be certified by the ESS for the certification of professionals, but also recognised, under the new regime, by those professionals who have already obtained certification, as this is right and fair. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in committee, Articles 33 to 35 of the General Secretariat for Industry are moving in the right direction. Article 33 extends the period for the notification or approval of the establishment or operation of storage and distribution centres, as so far too many storage and distribution centres have not been included in the licence framework of Law4302/2014 on grounds of their location. This provision allows them to adapt to the licensing framework until the period laid down, without imposing a fine. Article 32 is transformed and incorporated as a decentralised self-functional unit with management, financial and accounting "SEM", "SRF S.A." and "ELOT S.A.", then, of course, compliance with Community legislation and requirements. Article 33 extends the period laid down in Articles 3982/11 and 4302/14 of the technical reconstruction of ship repair activities, as a result of koruna. I would like to remind you that for Thessaloniki there is a plan for the coastal front, which provides for their relocation and aims to create a new ship repair zone, where businesses will operate in an organised area with better service, more serious conditions and respect for the environment. So I hope you will not stay in the extension, but promote the plan that we have set up so that the Thessaloniki Shipyards will be going to the new era. Article 34 re-examines the presidential decrees adopted for the professions of plumber, electricians, etc. in order to introduce only three changes into the substance into five drafting pages: the submission of a responsible declaration of good execution to the competent authorities, which is now compulsory for the connection of the installation to the public utility networks, such as EICP, the health certificate from a public hospital or other public health services for the purpose of excellence, sighting and hearing of the person concerned, and hence for the provision of evidence of a service within the eight-year period or second, responsible declarations of good execution that document an average annual turnover of at least 40% of the average disposable income per annum shall be submitted to the competent authorities within the eight-year period of the eight-year period. As far as strategic investments are concerned, I note that you are allowing strategic investments not to pay an income tax from three to fifteen years, depending on annual profits as a figure of 7.5 million. There are no more limits. Strategic rapid licensing investments with a budget of 20 million can now be exempted from 7.5 million. In our law, the largest investment from 35 to 100 million gradually lost the possibility of tax relief and investment more than 100 million had no income tax, and now they will. Obviously, you are giving more tax exemption to a few, without any escalation and in this way only very few companies will ultimately benefit. This, of course, does not give us any impression at all. We know you have a weakness in business colleges. It would, of course, be wiser to operate in the interests of many and the public interest in general. But what am I saying? You never thought of the public interest. Why would you do that now? For development law, the integration of football fields, basketball, as tennis and swimming pools into development law, since it is planned to be financed by the NRP, I do not think it should be a matter of priority at a time when available financial resources are going down. Here seems to be something similar to the integration of courier companies into development law in the summer of 2019 and honestly you ask me to ask myself about the criterion on which you operate and decide. Also, Article 5 of the amendment strengthens the development of closed parking and rehabilitation centres. Furthermore, with the amendment to Article 11, these codes of activity are being strengthened on the islands: wholesale trade in oil for engines, including these vessels, wholesale trade in heating oil by a reseller and wholesale trade in gas bottled or not. Why don't you, Minister - and I told you in the debate in the committee - do you think that the investments that are purely private and you are going to bear on the finite budget of the development fund? Why, for example, do you deduct the money from the reopening of state-owned JRCs for the benefit of individuals who are using superfluous charges on hospitals? Is the New Democracy, after all, the Party of individuals who make business with the state? What developmental footprint do, for example, have on parking and tennis grounds, and most of all on wholesale oil trade, wholesale trade in heating oil by a reseller, and wholesale trade in LPG, whether bottled or not? I'm really wondering. As far as development prolongations are concerned, development is now being given to Coron. I find it excessive to extend the 2004 development strategy, sixteen years later. On the contrary, I consider it necessary to extend the development of 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to comment on the forecasts of the bill on start-ups. Initially, it seems that a positive recommendation by an evaluation committee is also provided for in the register. It has been announced by the State Secretary responsible that the companies in this register will share money and, indeed, very substantial sums. Critical questions about transparency are therefore raised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, it is not clearly defined within the law which undertakings may be classified as newborns. In my opinion, this must be done. A decision on the designation of an undertaking cannot be left to the discretion of a single person, a minister or a committee. In any case, setting up a registry, i.e. a platform - this "Elevate Greece" - is not a reinforcement of newly created knowledge and technology-intensive enterprises, especially if it distributes money to a few opaque processes. The provision of Article 49 on tax incentives to investment angels is to be added to this, where we provide that there is no detailed and transparent regulation on the criteria to be met by a natural person of an investor so that it can be involved in investment with these enterprises. What principle is this, finally, which will control and decide on the guarantees and, indeed, on natural persons, Minister? All this should have been answered in the bill you are presenting to us, and indeed, thoroughly in this debate, now, in plenary. And this haste, curiosity and irresponsibility in general with which you have dealt with the drafting of this draft law is self-evident. It also appears from the fifteen amendments introduced to it, literally at the last minute, without consulting the relevant committees. However, they did not include, Minister, the promised amendment for the workers of 'Electrootypia', which they had promised to come to one of the bills we have been discussing this week. You are touching the limits of the institutional philosophy by, in essence, transforming the entire bill into an amendment, which means either that you are unrelated and clandestine, or that you accidentally went to legislate properly, and your employers have gathered you bread. You have not left an article of the bill on which you have not brought any amendments. It makes no sense to name them, because it is seventy-four pages, but in each of these amendments there is also a monumental rousphetti. Let's see them one by one. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are breaking the world record of mandated governance every day. You are the definition of a government appointed by businessmen, and implements the mandates of its employers arbitrarily. After the first amendment and the acquisition of the two patrol-directed missiles for the Navy, with which we obviously agree on grounds of national interest, you are coming and bringing an amendment to discharge, second in five months, in favour of canals. Not only did you give them tens of millions of dollars under the pretext of the 'We stay Home' campaign, not only did you declare affected and take over the wage and insurance costs of their staff, not only did you give them half the tax advance, not only did you transfer all their tax obligations for six months and gave them 20 million of the permits and 2020, you are now coming with this amendment and you are exempting them from their debts to the point of view. And then you're giving it to DIGEA and you're transferring it to the state budget. You're the only government that you don't only have state television that you've changed to your private generosity, but you have five channels supposedly private, which, however, are running public spending. Such television is not on Soviet territory. The Greek people are actually paying for their misinformation, because this is essentially what this is all about. We, Minister, are denouncing and voting against this appalling amendment, but we also denounce you because you are insulting democracy by bringing a bill that theoretically protects public finances. We are now going to Article 2 of the amendment to ensure the smooth provision of universal postal services. You do not explain why you are giving a second gift to your friends with the couriers, who were baptized in the period when they recorded the biggest cigarette in their history and lived in the golden century of Pericles. In fact, it is not enough that you have benefited them as the affected, you are also making them public fund inmates, invoking exceptional circumstances involving increased costs - I get the expression from the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u16	My colleague, you're in the nineteen minutes. I'll give you two more minutes to get you to twenty-one minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u17	Okay, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u18	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u19	And I will not be able, Mr President, to comment on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u20	You'll find it next year. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u21	Minister, are you serious? With all planes flying, all ships traveling, is the postal service sector affected? Not only do we denounce it and vote against it, but we are once again addressing you with a strict warning. You'll answer for this plundering of public money, because that's what it is. In order for everyone to understand what I mean, let us go to the amendment to Article 10 on the institution of the independent engineer, where you go retrospectively to Law 4062/2012 on the institution of the independent engineer and add to Article 6, 6A there. And you come with this amendment, and what do you say to us? Especially for the Greek, where you appointed the employee of the investment company, after the transfer of 100% of the company "ELLINIKI S.A.", all the works are carried out at the expense of the entities of the previous texts and by way of derogation from any other provision. Specifically, the studies necessary for the implementation of infrastructure projects are carried out by designers selected by the contractor and the studies are checked and approved by an independent engineer, i.e. a contractor's man. Because a contractor who appointed his Minister of State who breaks down property for three and a half years at public expense, let us admit that he has the power to choose the independent engineer as well. In short, if we add that the same amendment gives superpowers to the contractor and to the execution and supervision and the receipt of the works, then you are government out of "Finos Film", where they were leading brokers selling land with light, water, telephone to the cavalry who did what they wanted and destroyed the country's coastal front. The cherry in the cake is that in paragraph (d) of the amendment you also oblige public services to receive whatever the contractor makes with the association of the independent engineer. This is where we have no independent government to resist Illegal arbitrage and we will find independent engineer! Ladies and gentlemen, I have only been in the amendment to Article 10, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u22	Your Honor, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u23	I shall conclude, Mr President. One minute you'll give me a minute to finish. There's no point in hunting for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u24	You've taken an extra six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u25	I only stood on the amendment to Article 10, because 20 days after the Greek show, it was demolished by public spending three buildings only yesterday, Mrs Latsis officially left as the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT' from the Greek investment and we will see who will be replaced by it. The issue needs investigation. But there have already been the first roadmap - to say it in this sense - publications. Here and for those who do not know, we recall that the investment does not exist, since the securities have not even been transferred and ultimately the reasons why the public has sold the acreage of the most expensive land in the country are no longer there. I leave for the end, because I do not have time to comment on all of them, the immunity you are giving under Article 4, to the Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Board of Directors who lease the facilities in Platy and Serres and to the SPVs of the Greek Sugar Industry, which you are now exempting from payment of redundancies for the hundreds of three employees. I would remind you that the members of the board of directors of the leasing company, before the resolution agreement and under your previous law, were not responsible for acts and omissions, such as an act of non-payment of debts to the State. That would mean protecting private investors! But that's how I'm being a invester, Minister. If you relieve me of all responsibility to the public, to the private individuals for the payment of damages, each of us can be an investor in that country. Why didn't you tell us ahead? In short, ladies and gentlemen, you have given us many reasons to vote against this bill - parody, today you added another seventy-four, as well as the pages of the Rusphoric amendments, which in fact constitute a new bill, in which there has been no consultation. We are voting against this bill at first, and because you are able to unleash our democracy many more times, we hope that you will leave as soon as possible, if anything remains up in that country that has turned it into your own television station and your own personal fund. You have certainly earned the right to legislate self - power, lying to everyone, but you have forgotten that lying has short feet. And the truth of your actions will be investigated thoroughly and it will be your destruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u28	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u29	I'll explain them thoroughly in my speech later. Just two comments on what the honourable Member said, so that there are no misunderstandings in this House. As regards immunity, on the board of directors and Vice-Presidents in the Greek Sugar Industry, we do not give any immunity to the investor, Madam President. The investor is called Karathanasis, rented the factories, and he has no immunity. He's got a deal with the bank and EBZ. The immunity we give is to the members of the board of directors of the Greek Sugar Industry. Note that they were members appointed by you - they are of SYRIZA, we have not changed anyone - and the immunity that you say we have given by our previous law, you have given it by the law of the Greek Sugar Industry. And what happened? The law passed by SYRIZA gave immunity until a judicial decision was issued, and we extend it until the draft was completed. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I can't hear such things here. It's not nice to be a humiliation in the House. That's a humiliation you're making. They're your people. You don't want to vote? If SYRIZA does not vote for the amendment, I will withdraw it. If SYRIZA does not vote for the amendment on the immunity of members of the board of directors of the Greek Sugar Industry, I will withdraw the amendment and let people go to court. They're your people, if you want to run them, let's run them. As to the Greek, I will explain them in peace. I see our colleague, Mrs Perka, who is smiling wickedly and rightly doing, because it is an amendment necessary to run the project quickly. So don't fight in self-evidently, and don't be ridiculous in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u30	As far as I understand, Minister, if SYRIZA says that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u31	If SYRIZA says to the end that he disagrees with the amendment, I will withdraw it and run it in the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u32	Good, a new development. Mr. Michael Katrins has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while estimates converge at a recession that will reach 10% for 2020, the economic climate index according to IOBE has decreased by 1% and by 1.1% in June, in contrast to an increase of 8.8% in the Eurozone, small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals and merchants will suffer a 50 billion euro cut this year, unemployment will exceed 20% and one in three companies are threatened with a GESH-based enquiry, the government's ministers are congratulating each other on the measures taken and the billions they have shared, but they have never reached the majority of companies before. Mr. Georgiadis praised the improvement of the country's position since the 35th place on 29th in 2019 in the indicator of foreign direct investment based on the ERNST YOUNG survey, while the Ministry's assessment speaks of the approval of three hundred and ninety-nine investments totalling EUR 5 billion. It is worth noting that, according to the same research and in relation to Europe, the proportion of foreign direct investment in our country remains disproportionately small both in relation to our population and in relation to Gross National Product. It is clear that the investments will not only come with the simplification of the designation of a project as a strategic investment, as provided for in Article 43, nor with the extensions of the development laws of Articles 40 and 42 of this law, nor, of course, with the photographic provisions of Articles 29 and 31, but also the incoherent provisions contained in the amendment tabled on Friday nights. Furthermore, there is no point in celebrating the fact that in EY's survey, everyone who considers that the country's image as a potential investment destination has improved bureaucracy, the administrative environment, taxation and access to finance. It is a time-consuming problem of the Greek economy, which also confirms the Bank of Greece's SAFE survey to remain in the lowest position of the European Union in the satisfaction of business lending requests. Businesses from which I will not get tired of saying this, seven out of ten have been excluded from the liquidity instruments at the outset with the strict banking criteria adopted by the government. I recall that according to the Bank of Greece data 55% of non-performing loans at the end of 2019 were about business credit, making the deposit the only effective liquidity tool in the real economy. In TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund, the actual rate of satisfaction of requests does not exceed 20%. We are talking about enterprises that met all the conditions for membership, creating a financial gap that reaches up to EUR 10 billion. It is worth noting that even the EUR 800 compensation, which was advertised as much as any other measure, was made less than 60% of the eight hundred thousand professional entrepreneurs and traders. This figure was announced as the coverage perimeter of the professional world in so far as the government announced in April in relation to the compensation of EUR 800. In four days' time for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, after ten years in this country there is an end to first-place protection, the suspension of auctions at the same time as the most conservative estimates are talking about increasing red loans of between 7 and 10 billion over the next two years. In all, therefore, the suffocating problems of the trading world come to add the unfair competition that creates the barrier that is a hindrance to the stimulus of domestic entrepreneurship and to the attempt to survive thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises with the OECD to have hit the risk of the effects on the real economy and our country of ranking the first ten European Union positions in terms of the effects of the trade in the economy. We are therefore discussing a bill with provisions which are incoherent to each other, provisions which organise existing structures that have been objectively effective, prolonging procedures, always suspending fines in the context of the government's pro-investment account, which seems to have not been based on principles and rules. It is a legislative initiative that lacks a strategic objective and is likely to cause more problems than it hopes to solve since - and I think that everyone in the Chamber will agree - it is business to avoid double and triple controls on similar control matters. It is a draft law which provides for the construction of structures through extracts, a practice that has so far been implemented has not produced any results in cases where it has been adopted. Has the existing structures been assessed and found insufficient? Did he really need to start something from the beginning? We have a recent law in 4512/2018 on which you could also build and strengthen it. The content of the first article of Amendment 419 is based on this law. A law that has brought results in the scope of application, as evidenced by the publication of the activities of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection. Increase controls, increase seizures, increase fines, effective presence of services in the middle of the pandemic. We said it and we said it again that it was work done. We recognized that there was effectiveness. All this despite the weakening of the control mechanisms in recent years. Was a new bill and a new instrument really necessary? We did not, however, convince you, Minister. In addition, the ERC also gives rise to the blockade to the incomplete implementation of the framework and not in itself. You are creating a mechanism that does not seem to follow any of the modern structures and principles of public administration and supervision. We asked the committee, but we say it today: tell us which model from another European country you are using as a reference model for the structure that you are creating. At the same time as you are talking about the need to consolidate the control mechanisms for the control of the market and the control of the movement of products, you are excluding products covered by excise duty, which are particularly smuggling and trade, which remain the responsibility of the AAR. Exclude pesticides and issues relating to the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and at the same time upgrade the chemical analysis section for the control of olive oil. Totally contradictory logic is undoing the basic principle of the draft law on the existence of a single audit authority, while there is no record of all supervisory structures in the government mechanism. And I am not just talking about the mechanism of the Ministry of Development and Investment. You recommend an agency that fights everything. Competitiveness, illegal circuits, intellectual property protection, goodwill of trademarks, covering even the responsibilities of the FIFG. And all this, of course, is always under the instructions of the Minister with the commander you are creating to have absolute authority. I think it creates a reasonable reflection on what this direct dependence may entail from the Minister concerned. Controls and repression are clearly necessary. But the policy to combat the illegal trade cannot be used up alone. It is a complex phenomenon, an international phenomenon that is intensified in the years of the crisis and I do not know whether illegal immigration favours illegal immigration, as you said, Minister, in committee or the other way round. It seems, however, that here too, as a whole, the government's interest is unsupporting it. A comprehensive design and an integrated concept is required. There is a need for a consumer education campaign which will not be exhausted in targeting all those involved in a social automation framework, but which requires a strategy aimed at denouncing the activity of blocking people's consciousness as an activity that is depriving the national economy of incomes which affects healthy production and trade and is moving low-quality products which are often very dangerous to health. A campaign that raises awareness and informs consumers. A campaign launched by schools will embrace mass actors and train the responsible consumer attitude with allies in this effort. There is still a need to familiarize the new unit with the responsibilities assigned to them, to ensure the continuity of control and market surveillance, while the scope of the new structure is neither clear nor precise delimitation of competences, which was also highlighted in the hearing by a number of bodies. You are not clear about the amendment that you are introducing. On the contrary, you are entrusting the monitoring of industrial products to the IGC. But you do not do the same for the DIAMEA for which it is still not entirely clear who does what. With regard to the costs of destroying confiscation products which will be borne by the beneficiary, we need to point out that we are at a time when the concept of the market has been extended and we are no longer talking only about bags and glasses. Illegal traffic in audiovisual content, illegal software and decoding equipment is gigantic, while other countries in these categories are already taking measures. In this sense, we consider that we must take seriously the labelling of the association of flag companies for the expansion of the rightholder's concept in Article 18, with the aim of increasing revenue for the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill also contains several positive provisions. For example, I will mention some, such as the tax incentives for the costs of scientific and technological research, but also the creation of a national register of start-ups. It is particularly critical to support the ‘investing angels’ for the establishment and operation of a newly created enterprise. They offer funding, guidelines and networking. However, special attention is needed to the distortions, not to be found with "investing angels", which will launder millions in virtual new-born businesses and I think the State Secretary responsible will take care that we do not see such phenomena and events. The provisions on the regulation of professional rights are also in the right direction, taking into account current difficult economic data and facilitating procedures, and the provision for the setting up of an IKI is also positive, by means of an electronic one-stop shop. For the smart-assisted strategy, it is not enough to agree. It is necessary to set up an appropriate environment to enable this strategy to deliver with high-skilled staff and digital tools. For the article on the Chamber of Economics, we agree, with the point that it should be assigned the certification of new specialists and further training economists who will choose some of the new specialities that have already been initiated, while there is a concern about Articles 27 and 28 and the penalties provided for, Mr Minister, which has been formulated and I think has been strongly formulated and heard by the representatives of the chambers of commerce. With regard to Article 30, we consider that for accreditation and certification procedures, together with the TEI should be included in the process and that the STEM with public and wider public sector bodies, as well as research and educational institutions, just as provided for in Article 23 of Law No 4233/2014, without procedures and details on certification and who, unfortunately, was voted on with a broad consensus in previous years. I even asked the President of the TEI who replied to me that this law is not the case, that it is something new. I therefore believe that we need to return to the principles of the 2014 Law and, together with the Technical Chamber, the STEM and the other bodies jointly undertake both the accreditation and certification of professionals. Finally, it is clear that we support all the measures that have been taken by the shipyard industry, such as Article 33, but also Amendment No 411, for the two fire-fighting programme, which has an appalling duration of 12 years. But reasonable questions arise. What costs have been spent so far for the implementation of the contract and what will be the final estimated cost? Is there a clear and concrete timetable? Is there a commitment, Minister, by the new owner to the early and smooth completion of this programme? Will this be the last extension, or will we soon be called again in the House to vote for a new one? We as a Change Movement obviously support the national interests and the strengthening of national defence, but in terms of transparency and control, and insist on ensuring human resources and the need to pay workers, a valuable human resource, with global recognition and scope, to which we are talking today, is due almost 20 million. And that is why just recently, together with my colleague Vassilis Kegeroglou and Dimitris Konstantopoulos and other Members of the Change Movement, we have tabled a specific question and we are waiting for concrete answers to the questions we ask. As far as Amendment No 418 is concerned, the payment of 50% of the fee for DIGEA is rightly extended. We have called for this relief in the regional media for a long time ago, which was originally excluded, and we also asked for the allocation of 30% of advertising expenditure in the regional media, as foreseen, which was unfortunately never implemented, as was shown by the publication of the Peca list. As for Amendment No 419, which has been tabled lately, it contains too many provisions. In fact, five amendments are made to one's packaging. It has articles which are positive, such as Article 3, Minister, to extend the pharmacopoeia function, in which, unfortunately, the Municipality of Athens made the role of Pontius Pilate in creating problems in entrepreneurship and forcing the government and you to bring this provision. That is the right provision in Article 4 that extends the regime for the administrations of the Greek Sugar Industry, as well as in Article 10 for the Greek I think that in any case we should support such initiatives. However, Minister, it also contains photographic provisions at the last minute, which raise questions about feasibility, which is why we shall be placed in dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, the government should include dealing with the illegal trade in a comprehensive strategy and an organised concept for both the economy and society. Individual steps such as this bill, despite whatever good intentions it may have, do not lead to required results, especially when independence is not guaranteed. And the complexity and no connection between the provisions of this bill and the present draft law does not allow us to vote in favour of this draft law. Professionals, traders and entrepreneurs who have endured after ten years of crisis are also facing the consequences of the crisis and the consequences of the inefficiency of the government. Your atmosphere and inability to support people in the market is not covered by the communication orchid of the recurring announcements and may prove fatal for too many of them. We, in the Change Movement, have been responsible for the failures and have proposed solutions to support the market, professionals, businesses and traders, and are even calling on you at the moment to change the lines, to revise your strategy and to act on the real problems of professionals who call for their survival and, unfortunately, do not see any response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u34	Mrs Manolakou now has the floor, with a comfort of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u35	It is a bill cut and sewn in needs for additional profitability in business groups. And it is not enough for the bill with the sixty articles, but it is challenging that there is an amendment that essentially corresponds to a mini-legislative, since it contains fifteen articles in 74 pages and brought them without debate, that nothing should be heard. In other words, there are fifteen different amendments in one package. You also give provocative donations to business groups. Integrate into the development law and new areas, to ensure free money from people's money to anyone who wants to make parking spaces or care centres instead of the state itself to make them and to be free of charge for the insured. Even warehouses on the islands will make them free of money and sell to public fuel - who? - those who in 2014 the government relieved them of a huge fine and wrote newspapers. You keep feeding them privileges and free money. Of course, before the Greek Industrial Association's requirement, as set out in the debate in the committee, to increase the aid ceiling per investment project, you doubled it, you did it over 100%, from 5 million to 10 million. However, preschool infants stack them in unhealthy containers, both you and the previous ones who decided to do so. Also, privatize seven hundred sixty acres of fillet with a window of the Municipality of Thermaikos and the universities of the region. You also prolong the immunity of the appointed administration of the Sugar Industry - yes, it was SYRIZA - so that workers cannot claim their jobs. The day before yesterday, a worker told me that he went to court to claim his rights and was rejected as a result of the administration's immunity. You see, for everything that's anti-grassy, you keep going with the governments of the New Democracy and the former SYRIZA, you're going with us. Sugar workers have more than ten months to pay. Have you thought about how they live? Eventually you are psychopathic only for the bare appetites of the Association of Greek Industrialists and the whole business groups. Let the rest of the world die. As far as we are concerned, it could not be missing from the Greek Ministry of Development's bill, one more amendment. You take care of special legislation to circumvent any general provisions that apply to everyone in order to circumvent any possible obstacles to the new city within the city of Greek. In short, the New Democracy Government is coming to clear the landscape even further on behalf of the investor in relation to the infrastructure necessary for the investment, now also the institution of the independent engineer. It is provocative that you oblige the public to receive the various projects within 15 days. Otherwise, if he doesn't receive them, he's being imprisoned. Shame on you, not even elementary control! However, even in the sixty articles bill, you create a self-sufficient service, DIAMEA, which comes directly from the Minister - to whomever Minister, I say it not only for you - under its administrative and financial management regime. It will work autonomously by removing objects and action capabilities from other services. However, whatever structure it has will have to deal with problems with overlap between audit authorities and services, with the fragmented design of audits, without the use of integrated systems and criteria, based on risk and targeting, the homogeneity of auditing standards, reduced human financial resources and a number of other issues. The DEME will be working 24 hours a day, the workers will be working nights, holidays, and the labour legislation with permanent permits and the day off that they are entitled to. But, through the evidence of the General Accounting Office of the State there is doubt, there is a question whether this will be covered. In fact, this is a harmonised adaptation to the needs of the urban state in order to ensure the necessary conditions of supposedly equal competition in capitalist enterprises. Although the fight against the blockade is often propagandaed by governments as a board of salvation for small traders, it is in practice a mockery. That's why it's constantly reproducing. The root has never been hit, i.e. the big companies - groups that also have states behind them, but only the mackerel of the block. After all, under no circumstances do such controls deny the basic laws of the free market, the sovereignty of the larger companies vis-à-vis the smaller, that is, the capitalist competition that leads the big fish to eat the small fish, nor do they deny the more general anti-grass policies. On the other hand, many times, and the self-employed small traders themselves can be turned into victims of this control, since in practice these mechanisms exercise all their rigour on the small, while larger companies run away with trivial amounts. Winned by the draft law are the large groups and lost, of course, the populace workers. That's your whole philosophy and ideology. Consumer protection from the trade is a pretext. From the first article you speak clearly and reveally of goodwill for trademarks and an increase in tax revenues, covering out who pays the goodwill of trademarks and an increase in tax revenue. At the same time, the reference to the growth of enterprises indicates that the most effective objective of the draft law will be to speed up the concentration of enterprises, i.e. further destruction of self-employed and small enterprises. Also, the particular attachment to copyright reveals the reactionary nature of the bill, since practically it speaks of measures to support the profitability of multinational software enterprises, film companies, etc. Some articles are particularly revealing, such as Article 46. Huge and challenging tax exemption for groups and expenditure on scientific and technological research, 100% overdepreciation, i.e. over 100 euros, 200 euros tax-free income. And we ask you, who has investigating capabilities? Only business groups. Finally, you are implementing these requirements expressed by the Association of Greek Industrialists and opening the way for new legal tax exemptions for groups with intellectual property and even entering other branches, such as through privatisation in sport. Of course, the aim of the government is not to develop sport and create conditions for access to the population to benefit from physical activity - not, of course - but to facilitate and simplify even more the penetration of sports capital by exploiting the massity, popularity and popularity of sports. But that's challenging, and Article 43. Remove what is currently in force for the elementary calculation of the tax exemption and will be determined by ministerial decision - yes, by ministerial decision, which is a challenge - a decision when you tax poverty. But you are also involved in the Chamber of Technical and Economic Affairs. The TEI shall be entrusted with the competence of certifying persons. Of course, the history of professional competence certifications is not new. It is a structural choice of the European Union in the context of the liberalisation of the movement of persons, services and capital, namely Maastricht. And it's not just Maastricht, it's Bologna. And all of this, in order to serve competitiveness and capital profitability by downgrading the degrees and integrating the time requirement for a complete disconnection of a diploma and profession and professional rights. The creation of a register is precisely in this direction. It is no coincidence that the trade union movement opposed the establishment of a register, prevented its implementation and revealed the Government's efforts to downgrade diplomas and establish all kinds of certifications, to break down the specialities of the technicians and to promote further the concentration of technical works on large technical companies. That's the target. At the same time, this article degrades the degrees in the context of Lifelong Learning, certifications and training that reduce Technical Training and strengthen further the concentration of technical projects. And then, "block" engineers! You do the same in the Chamber of Economics. Promote its partnership with private-law legal persons in areas within its competence for works or services. In other words, you are opening the way for partnership with private centres or companies for the implementation of economists training programmes financed by the NSRP, which means that they will enter companies in the management of these programmes, but also for the certification of economists along with the Economic Chamber, although there is negative experience in the Chamber since the operation of a sinful KEK that closed down. In addition, it opens the way to the operation of the Chamber of Economics with private financial criteria and the delivery of their services to private companies that will have access to members' registers, accountants’ registers and tax books and the issue of accountants’ licenses - tax advisors in digital data, records, digital signatures and many others. I mean, personal data goes for a walk! You are privatising services of the Chamber of Economics to win the companies from their programs and partnerships. They are a step in the directions of Bologna, so that the Chamber can attest professional rights skills. You are further downgrading the qualifications of higher education institutions. You introduce changes to disciplinary boards that will judge by the Code of Conduct of Accountants and the anti-grass laws that tie hand-operated self-employed and employed accountants. That's what you're doing. What else are you doing in this bill? You create an electronic register in open market operations. We say that under no circumstances should it be used for new carpets and certifications, as well as for the exclusion of a series of micro-enterprises that currently operate on a temporary basis. Don't come after them! You also set out professional conditions for plumbers, machine operators, etc. You are presenting it, in fact, in favour of professionals. We're telling you. From the outset, we disagree with the institution for renewing the profession, because the degree must be the only condition for this licence. I now come to the subject of research and his articles. I see that neither of the other parties are speaking, because in capitalist production relationships the main motive for scientific research is not the production or development of new scientific knowledge for the needs of society itself. The dominant role is the contribution of scientific research to increasing the profitability and competitive position of the various monopolist groups. This is, however, an obstacle to the dynamic development of scientific research to the needs of expanded reproduction of capital. In other words, at the same time that the means of production are growing rapidly and revolutionised in relation to the past, at the same time as the material conditions for the development of science and technology, we see the relative stagnation about what could be produced qualitatively and quantitatively, if there were no obstacle, capitalist profit, as a basic incentive. In other words, if the incentive was to satisfy people's needs, the development of scientific research would have been much greater. Today, of course, science and technology has developed, but man lives in poverty and misery, since the constant demand for capital is how research and technology will be integrated more effectively into the exploitation system and capitalist profitability and greater exploitation of workers. That's the logic of the articles. The amendment may exclude from the single wage wage for researchers in programmes not financed by the State budget. However, this does not necessarily involve increases, but may also lead to a reduction in pay. The substance is the existence of a working contract for all workers in research centres that meets their current needs and fully ensures their working security rights. These should also be taken into account, as should the comments on the improvement of the library of the National Research Foundation. This has been said in committee too, and we ask that it be taken into account until the last minute. However, with regard to the National Intelligence Register, the criteria will be established by a ministerial decision. In other words, you are planning it as a decisive tool to further promote capitalist business in the space. It is also a challenge to put the ELIAMEP in the funding that is an unacceptable regulation. Give warm money to a body fully integrated into the mechanisms of imperialist staff and political planning of the bourgeoisie. Our people have nothing positive for their lives and their needs to wait for it! At the same time, it is provocative that you are cutting 150,000 euros from the General Secretariat every year the Institute of Byzantine Culture Research of the University of Peloponnese, without ensuring its funding from elsewhere, from other sources. It is unfair since with a special account the ELIAMEP is subsidised, to be cut from the Institute of Research of Byzantine Culture. As you can see, we have a thousand reasons - and many do not have time to tell them - that we are voting against this anti-grass bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Greek mentioned by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, the sale of 8.9 million shares of the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT by Mrs Marianna Latsis immediately after the sale of the bonds by the company to finance the project is certainly not a positive development. With regard to the amendments, to be fair, we have indeed been informed by the Minister in the last committee - although not the one that looks like a bill - and we will be placed in our dentistry. As we have pointed out in committee, this is another draft law - a slogan without principle and finally. Theoretically negotiates growth, when the only thing that develops in Greece is the production of bills, while substantiating that the government has no plan, and that an effort is being made to disorientate the Greeks with a furniture optimism that is not documented by any economic indicator. We assume, however, that it is called a law on counterfeiting, because this matter concerns the first twenty-two of its sixty-five articles in total. It also includes, of course, another dimension of development, such as certain 'one-stop Services' regulations in Article 26, of the many that have been launched so far, but are not accompanied by investments. Continuing, there are some provisions on planning business policy in industry in Article 36, innovation and research facilities for startup companies, as well as investment angels in Articles 46, 47 and 49. However, these "angels" will not extinguish the poor "dans" of the Greek economy, i.e. the lack of funding, vision and proper design of a new economic model that Greece absolutely needs. On the other hand, with regard to both the parts of the bill and the provisions on strategic planning or innovation and the rest, an incredible number of regulations and amendments are included without any coherent logic, which means that specific requests and interests are served without even processing. For example, we see arrangements for the TEI, the Chamber of Finance, ELOT, plumbers, elevators, transfers etc., even for the rents paid by the Ministry of Development in the latter, but not for the public. In simple terms, it reminded us of emails sent by the market and converted directly into laws, and if he thinks the Ministry is the recipe for a country's development, he is unfortunately making a big mistake. The culmination is, of course, Article 52 which initiates a scandalous financial arrangement for ELIAMEP from the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, from the ELIDEK, as we will present in the Minutes along with the monumental response of the Minister to our question. This alone does not allow us to vote for the bill, since we want to remain consistent in our attitude, although there are many other reasons for its vote. However, we did not expect the Minister, who is certainly aware of the role of ELIAMEP, in his view that he can say what he wants, but not finance it selectively, especially in the bad economic conditions that we are experiencing. As much as we try with a well-meaning and constructive attitude, as always, we do not understand the purpose of the draft law which, as we mentioned in the first part of the text, with Articles 1 to 22, seems to be aimed at resolving the problem of the seafarer. In this regard, the market includes products that are moving without legal documents and without tax, whereas they are usually copies - products, that is, a black market, which is, according to the President of the EPP, EUR 15 billion annually, where only the public loses more than EUR 4 billion revenue. However, there is legislation and there was no need for so much extra. As long as it was applicable. And that is a basic wound to our country, namely the implementation of the laws. If, of course, the Inter-Associational Market Control Unit, DIAMEA, which is referred to as a replacement for the CYPRUS, would be a wish, although we do not believe it. Leaving the provisions of the second chapter of Part One, Articles 23 to 28 which we consider to be procedural, the second part, with Articles 29 to 45, concerns strategic planning and entrepreneurship. The most important thing we believe is Article 36, which defines strategic planning for business sectors, that is to say, what it calls the Smart Specialisation Strategy or the RIS3 and which will have a special burden on investment, within the framework of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2021-2027, in particular as regards productive reconstruction, the promotion of industrial research and transition, the strengthening of growth and entrepreneurship, the support of industry and small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be launched by the Secretariat-General for Industry with relevant contributions to the Minister. The most important thing here is exactly who these areas will be. According to what is happening so far, based on the National Strategy for Research and Innovation for Smart Specialisation 2014 to 2020 and FEK 1826, 2B from its 27-8-2015 first four pages of construction, culture, tourism, cultural and creative industries are the following: agriculture, health, information and communication technologies, energy, environment and sustainable development, transport and logistics, construction materials, culture, tourism, cultural and creative industries. We repeat them here so that we are not simply talking about procedures, but about what these procedures are all about, what we should be interested in. Do these sectors really cover Greece's needs? Is their launch going to change something? And if so, what? However, these were the directions of the study 'MCKINSEY', as well as the SYRIZA's Institutional Development Strategy 2021 in the field of development. In simple terms, tourism, transport, energy and some form of primary sector, but when we see the relative indifference over time, we feel that this is a pretext again. We, the Greek Solution, generally support the processing of small and medium-sized enterprises and industry, but above all in the primary sector, the pharmaceutical industry, the defence industry and the shipyards, which are unacceptable. Articles 46 to 50 include some provisions that are considered to promote research and newly-born businesses, while the rest of this part are relatively indifferent, except of course Article 52 for the ELIMAP mentioned above. The possibility of deducting the costs of research to enterprises, as well as deductions for the ‘investing angels’, is provided. We must, however, make it clear that the 'angels' against the Americans, the first teachers in the field of start-ups, are the ones who invest in a newly-born company in the early stages, when this is an example of a new engineer with a newly-innovated idea that promises future profits. In this respect, the question is not whether tax incentives will be provided to them, but whether there will be normal investors, because according to the American model, the ‘angel’ resale their percentage when the newly-born company has grown well enough in a company or in an investment fund, i.e. a venture capital, noting that the venture capitals are distinguished from those that they invest in small or large start-ups. In any case, their final request is to sell to micro-investors if the newly created company is listed on the stock exchange and to another company that wants it. But when there is virtually no stock exchange, no private capital, no business to exploit these newly-born companies, even worse when there are no development prospects in the dawn that we have led from at least all our governments after 2010, then there cannot be "angelists", let alone come from abroad. So other problems need to be solved before what the bill wants to launch in this area occurs. To substantiate our position, according to data from the "Marathon Venture Capital", which investigated funding to Greek newcomers, i.e. to every technological company with a Greek founder, between 2010 and 2018, only 540 million newcomers were invested in sixty-seven newcomers, with staff in Greece, as we will naturally deposit in the Minutes. These are very small sizes, while some of these companies were financed by Community programmes, such as the 'JEREMIE' of EUR 150 million and the 'EQUIFUND', which succeeded with EUR 410 million. Therefore, it cannot be the answer you are looking for to the problems of the economy and youth unemployment, where, if we consider that every newly-born company, especially in the first few years, employs three to four people and not a fixed remuneration, these are a few hundred people who do not reduce unemployment or, of course, support the economy. In Israel, in an economy almost twice as large as ours, with USD 375 billion of GDP in relation to Greece's 200 billion, when, of course, we had the same GDP in 2000, only in 2018, in just one year, $6.47 billion in newly-born companies, as we also tabled in the Minutes. Many of these Israeli companies are imported into American stock exchanges or are sold there, noting that in Israel there are six thousand newly-born companies, six thousand start-ups, which is the highest percentage internationally, as we will testify in the Minutes. On the other hand, the amount on which research in Greece is based amounts to about 1.2% of our GDP or EUR 2.1 billion with data from EUROSTAT, far less than 2.2%, which is the average in the European Union. And it is considerably lacking in advanced technological countries, such as Germany, with 3%, Japan with 3.5% or, of course, Israel with 4.2%. Greece cannot, therefore, monitor developments, despite the fact that the Greeks have very great potential. One more drawback is that Greek companies are generally smaller and less value added. Greek manufacturing has a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises employing the largest number of employees, 86% of all, compared with 67% in the European Union. And with figures from the IOBE, 69.5% of the manufacturing companies have a turnover, unfortunately, below EUR 150,000, while 87% of the total employs only up to four people. Under these conditions it is difficult to invest in research, which in Germany mainly comes from the private sector. In some individual articles, since we have talked in detail about all the committees, including the most important issue of the ELO, which the government hopes to solve, we will say the following. In Article 16, the provision is incorrect at the end. The country of origin of the products must in any case be required, even for products originating in the European Union, on the one hand, in the context of the strengthening of Greek products, on the other hand, because consumers must know the country of origin of the products they buy. That is not enough, however, but its constituents should also be mentioned. Buying sugar that says it is packed in Greece for a supermarket - I would remind you here that the Greek Sugar Industry has become a wholesaler now - but not from which country it comes, is unacceptable for the consumer who is conscious and wants to buy Greek. We believe, however, that the North countries are reacting, since the Germans or Italians want to sell Greek olive oil, packed in Germany or Italy, as Italian or German. It happens, after all, and it is not right to allow it. For example, Germany has overrun us with regard to its exports to Great Britain in olive oil, which is, of course, very paradoxical. In the United States, however, for example, the origin of the product must be written, not just the packaging. In Article 49, where it is actually to cover half the investment by the state, there are serious fears of black money laundering and tax evasion, such as the example we mentioned in the corporate governance bill, where a newly-born company starts today, asking for some funds with a business plan, overtakes many times, the shareholders take the money and disappear. This is how many times, abroad, of course, money has been washed off, noting that estimates in cases of unlisted companies are based on assumptions and assessments that cannot be objectively judged. We will continue with Article 62, which concerns where and how the Greek State can make available the sums that the Greek State receives as a dividend from the supreme foreigners who have as its subsidiaries the TSEID, the EBRD, the real estate of the public and the CFS, all the major banks, to which we have transferred what we have and do not have, while its establishment was an obligation in the third memorandum, which co-signed by the three major parties, SYRIZA, the New Democracy and the Change Movement, which is very often pretended to be unaware of nothing. All we have to point out here is that the dividend to be paid to the State in 2020 is only EUR 42 million, while the rest of the sale will keep them to implement its investment policy. This is sincerely about the absolute smuggling of the Greeks. So far, however, the sale has not yielded more than EUR 6 billion, and there are, of course, no plans for this, and, of course, there has been no reduction in our debt, public debt, despite the sale that is constantly increasing. This is literally a crime against our children, at the expense of future generations, and the responsible ones will certainly have to be punished exemplarily and punished at some point. We will close with Article 63 and with our objection in paragraph 2, where tax and insurance information is required for the collection of money from the operational programmes of the NRP, from the Operational Programme for Fisheries and the Sea, as well as from the Rural Development Programme. How is this really going to happen when the vast majority of the professionals due to the economic crisis and the virus now have debts to taxi and to insurance funds? We agree that a small percentage of what is collected from the funds, but how will they be collected on the one hand to move to the market, on the other hand, to have a certain prospect of growth and be able to repay their debts? There's no way like that. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u40	Yes, Minister. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u41	I only want the floor to avoid being created in the Chamber and, above all, in the totalitarian misunderstandings about a case that can hide and stock markets for other people's assets. Marianna Latsi's decision to sell her shares to LAMDA DEVELOPMENT is well known in investment circles for many months. It has absolutely nothing to do with the evolution of the work in Greek. It is a matter of domestic agreement on which member of the family gets what from their property over the next generation. One side of the family took a piece, shipping, the other side of the family took investment in real estate. So what you said at the outset about Mrs Marianna Latsi's decision to sell shares in Greek in relation to it - it did not do so, did it at the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT - with the evolution of the project, Mr President, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. On the contrary, Mrs Latsi - in my opinion correctly - as a sign of confidence and support for the project, she expected all the procedures to be completed, although the decision has been taken several months ago. The company LAMDA DEVELOPMENT has gathered, as it is known in December, the total increase in the share capital for the Greek project, which is over 650m euros, with over four times over. A few days ago the bond, the so-called "lative bond" that came out, was overwritten twice and the loan financing by the Greek banks has already been signed for several months. The total financing of the project in Greek today is secured by the company's funds for the implementation of the project. What you said is completely out of reality. The work is going very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment, let me let you know. Mr Arsenis has had the floor since Merra25. Immediately after the speech, the State Secretary, Mr Papathanassis, will be given. Four Members will then speak and Mr Dimas, the Deputy Minister. So far we have been in this process. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are talking about a bill, but the heart of the case here is a government, which has defined three emblematic investments: Scouries, Petroleum, Greek. One year later, we have zero developments in this investment of the catastrophe in the Greek, the three demolitions that we will debate in detail next year. We have the Skouries to have been cancelled in practice in the Council of State and mining and from government lips now to be not in the bells, but in an unknown time horizon. That is the essence of what we are talking about today. And I say that it is the essence, because we see that Mr Georgiadis, despite the fact that he has come to present us with the amendments he would bring both the two times - he did not bring us in writing, of course, and he has brought them to plenary at the last minute - he forgot about the Greek amendment. But let's go see the bill before we get back to Greek. We have the creation of a new body that will theoretically be chasing the blockage, a body which once again has been subordinated and has no possibility, as we see it, as has been said in consultation, to focus on imports, the storage of block products, wherever it is the long story. It is a body which, as we have denounced again and again, will mainly be chasing small sellers, those who are easy to demonise, when the essence of the blockade is imports and storage. It follows from the same bill that the Government has specific rules on strategic investors, which will have various rights, in addition to tax exemptions, to public property. The body set up for the embargo - which reminds us again and again of the laws that the government brings in this House - may have a private commander who does not have the standard, that is to say, "necessary condition for his position..." - as I read on the subject - "...is his operational experience in organising, coordinating and carrying out large-scale control operations". In other words, there are no formal qualifications that are normally available to the public. This bill exempts foreign companies established in Greece under the provisions of the junta's development law from registering in GEMI, which are established in Greece, we have state aid in private sports facilities, public money, private profits once again. These strategic investors, which are not designated, will have a special status for real estate concessions and many other things as regards technical education. However, as the Technical Chamber finds, in terms of certification, all the bodies offered, as you said in the consultation, are absent from GSE to all the sectoral federations - and have the technical experience, indeed, so that they can examine skills. In practice, that is to say, in the third part, all technical training is being denounced. But let's go to Greek. We have this amendment, which you still hadn't announced, Mr Minister, even though you told us that you would announce all the amendments and give us time not to be surprised. You told us that you were filing them because the central government keeps you, the Prime Minister's office, if I understand why he wants to have a technical check before they surrender us. You bring them to us at the last moment, plus an amendment to the Greek, which includes this unacceptable one, namely that there is a private engineer who can supervise the implementation of the works and the respect of the legislation, and if, in theory, this private engineer - even in theory - disagrees with the terms of independence and with the terms of independence, the building should go to international arbitration. You add something very substantial, that after a short period of time, for the public works included if it is not approved by town and services, it is automatically considered that they have been received and that they are correct. So, you're building this state-owned investment of the Greek. But I want to go to another issue, if you want culture. On the way out of the first meeting of committees, Minister, you did something that was unacceptable to a minister, a MP and a human being. You told me that it was wrong to say that it was done with public funding, because you made a contract with LAMDA DEVELOPMENT for the demolition of these three buildings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u45	I'm glad you're listening. And you told me that this was why there was no competition for the choice of the demolition company, and that is why INTRAKAT was chosen. When I asked you the very simple question "How, when there are three appeals pending in the Council of State, you proceed to a contract with the company, while the court has not yet decided whether it can do so?" on whether it will finally take over, whether the Greek will be transferred to the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT", you replied to me with a phrase that does not respond to the House, with fascinations...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u46	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u47	Do you deny it? They were Members present, Minister. You're filthy, aren't you? And if you don't say it in public, I'll describe it to the House in my dentistry. You said in particular that you do not attach any importance, but with a phrase of a different level, to the citizens who appeal to the Council of State and precisely because you do not attach any importance to it and you will do all of this by law. Because this is not a place where every citizen elected will show the lowest possible level of public dialogue, because it may be that this government intimidates citizens every day and because no one is on the level of bowling to colleagues, I would like you to ask for a public apologies first. And I would like you to have the political courage - so that I do not have to do it - to say exactly your insulting phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u48	I don't remember anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u49	You don't remember anyone! We had colleagues present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u50	Absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Comrade, go on. Minister, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u52	In fact, you said that you "writing them" all these citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u53	I've never said such things. You're a slander. There are Minutes in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u54	I'm sorry you're denying it. You don't even have the political courage to accept it publicly. I am pleased, however, that with this refusal you are committed not to repeat it again. Because if you can't defend it publicly, don't do it privately, Minister. This is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u55	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u56	Because the fact that we are here a parliament, which, in addition to a bill, passes photographic provisions on the Greek and "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" and the fact that we denounce you in this, cannot be the basis of losing every political culture and accepting vulgar attacks by ministers, which must be the model of the opposite. Mr Papathanasios, I think you were present in the debate, as were other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u57	Papathanasis is my last name, not Papathanasiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u59	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u60	A few words about the substance and a statement about the slander. Let's actually go. Both SYRIZA and Mera25 and others are constantly lying in the channels. You lied to the House that the Greek State pays the demolitions. Instead of coming here and apologise to you for lying to the House that the Greek State pays the demolitions, you have the courage to blame me for grossness. For what you said, sir, you should know that the House is kept in the Minutes. Get me the minutes where you recorded what you said. If you have no Practically to prove it, you are a common slander. I look forward to the Minutes, otherwise we are sorry rather than going to have bad things, and I do not want this with colleagues. You'll bring the minutes of the House where I've sworn to you. If you do not have one, I would ask you to apologise for me and Mr Papathanassis. Let's actually go now, what I told you to understand why, perhaps, sometimes, if we talk fast, we don't understand. You said and reiterated: "How can the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" pay the demolitions, while yours are still pending in the courts - among the three of you are personal applicants, along with other citizens, against investment in the Greek, as you have a right - actions? And what I've explained to you, and I'm telling you again, is why the company takes the risk. Why is the company taking the risk? Because he has legal advisers who read your appeals and can judge whether these appeals are valid and therefore convince the board of directors of the company whether it is worth taking a risk or not. In this case, the company ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’, without any risk of the Greek State, has started to spend millions of euros on Greek, and the transfer has not yet been made. If some of these appeals thrives and stops the transfer, the loser is not the Greek State, but the investor loses money, who, with his own money, has broken down those arbitrary ones, which have been arbitrarily judged by the Greek State and otherwise the Greek State should tear them down with his own money. So, we have reached a deal where the Greek State takes zero risk. A private person comes in and pays him the demolitions that he should do alone with the public. Why is the private investor doing this? Because he considers your appeals - to tell you by political culture - legal waste. That is what I told you and that is what I explained to you. For all the rest, please apologise to the Step, unless you have minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. The State Secretary, Nikolaos Papathanases, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. For the time being, I will not go into what Mr Arsenis said again. I join exactly what my Minister, Mr Georgiadis, said. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill continues the government's reform work, which began in July 2019. And, despite the unfavourable conditions arising from the great problem of pandemic, we continue with the coordination and with the very hard work that the Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, has done to the Ministry, with my colleagues, Mr. Dimas and Mr. Tsakirs, precisely this mandate given to us by the Prime Minister, that is to say, to "reinforce" reforms aimed at growth, social cohesion and the armoring of jobs. We are not simply setting targets, but we want - and that is what we are doing - to implement them quickly. Here I would like to stand by and talk about all the great projects that were stuck and which we have been dismantled in very fast time. It's not just Greek. I say it because the Greek was mentioned. It's a lot of work. We are setting targets, which are precisely this reformist character. And that is precisely the substance of the bill you have before you and which is to be voted on today in the House. What we want to do is to give solutions to market surveillance, regulation of economic activity and, above all, to dealing with illegal trade. At the same time, we then regulate issues, which follow the "Invest in Greece", which concern industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research and innovation and other provisions. Starting with, this draft law creates an Inter-Service Market Control Unit, i.e. a integrated and powerful mechanism, which provides a framework for protecting the rules of healthy competition in the field of the market, consumer interests. This is essentially a follow-up service to the existing structure, which is essentially the structure that has faced the whole part, not only of the blockade but also of harmonised practice and shamefulness in the midst of the crisis. We are therefore strengthening a structure which has successfully passed through this crisis and which has succeeded in operating the market in the best way. So, on the one hand, we are strengthening the culture of this interdepartmental cooperation between all the public authorities - because here we have many public authorities that collide within this interservice unit - saving resources and, on the other, - and above all - ensuring that the financial interests of consumers are better protected. The establishment of this service really comes to add to all these positive results a new management model, which we have chosen to follow, a new management model which, on the one hand, receives all these positive experiences, which we had from the operation of the CSCE and, on the other, adds very modern tools so that we can deal with the difficulty and speed with which the illegal economy is developing. Because he referred to the House and the committees what happened from the start of this coordinating body, I would like to tell you that the statistics show that the comparison between July 2018 and June 2019, where we had three thousand nine-year-olds, came to be covered from July 2019 to June 2020 with twenty-seven thousand controls. In other words, from the function and the way that we have operated, we have had some 600% increase in controls. And that is what I told you earlier, that is, the experience gained through this operation, that is, the arrest of two agencies. At the same time, we also discovered the major problems arising from the simultaneous operation of two services within a Ministry. In this context with the new unit, all officials and staff working in the coordinating body and, at the same time, at the Ministry's service in an institution shall be able to participate. We are correcting omissions and pathogens of years, and at the same time we are now best covering market surveillance. The new structure has adopted best international practices and, above all, recommends the only site for managing information on illegal trade and the protection of intellectual property. This is carried out by three directorates, the coordination and administrative support, the inter-service cooperation address for market control and the management of statistical processing and supervision data for e-commerce. For the first time, a digital system for collecting and managing data is being set up to provide information on illegal trafficking and to contribute essentially to combating illicit trade, both physical and electronic. For the first time, it is also covered by the need to analyse statistics, which is necessary in order to be able to pursue organised crime. And these are the elements that are the modern management, which is required for the operation of such a body. Furthermore, an important element in the functioning of the new body is the possibility of exchanging information with other services, such as the National Information Service, the National Transparency Authority, the Ministry's General Consumer Directorate, the Competition Commission, the European Union Services and other services following transnational agreements. So you understand the size of the information, which can be collected and operated under such a unified instrument. So we do not just upgrade control structures. We are adopting a hard deterrent line for those who are trying to invest in illegal commercial practices, in practices that they are putting against intellectual property. So, since the vote on this bill, in the invoices issued - and here we have a significant differentiation - the name of the trade mark will be entered. This facilitates the work of the audit mechanism for the detection of counterfeit products and protects substantially the goodwill of the trademark. And this is a great intersection that we are bringing, because, as you know, the trademark is another important value, which, if not preserved, is a serious loss of revenue and positions. Also, to those who move over three thousand pieces, even the means of movement will be confiscated. But let us say that it costs Europe at the moment the blockade. The trade in Europe costs 48 billion, i.e. about 7.4% of all European sales and about eight hundred thousand jobs, while for Greece it accounts for 1.3 billion and twenty-five thousand jobs. Basically, if you translate this, you will see that 123 euros leave their pockets each year and every year, i.e. income which corresponds to every citizen, who goes to illegal trade. The Ministry of Development and Investment and the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection highlight the need for a substantial reform of structures and tackle the fight against illegal trade on the one hand as a matter of national security, on the other hand as a development policy. We are thus creating a flexible control mechanism that promotes legality and healthy entrepreneurship, above all it will shield the jobs that are being removed from this illegal act. However, while continuing the analysis of this draft law, I would like to mention that an important part that has worked during the COVID crisis -19 is industrial production. It supported the flow of products, the supply of goods and, above all, the lack of products from the market. Let us note that industrial production increased in March in Greece by 1.9%, while it fell at European level. In April, the pandemic experienced a 9% fall compared with March, while the corresponding fall in Europe was 17%, for example, in France 20%, in Germany 21% and in Portugal 18%. What does that prove? It demonstrates in essence the resistance and how durable and adaptable the processing industry in Greece is, and that was clearly not the case simply. Our Ministry and the co-legislative ministries have simplified the procedures, cut red tape and have given industry a great impetus to modify the production lines and meet the first needs of our country. With this bill, therefore, we continue to work: "I invest in Greece" with articles and provisions for strengthening entrepreneurship, processing and increasing investment. In particular, and very quickly, I will tell you that IKIs can now be introduced electronically. This also raises some positions in the Doing Business by significantly limiting bureaucratic time-consuming procedures. Administrative ambiguities are allowed for the production of isotope radiopharmaceuticals, an economic activity of high added value and specialisation. The ELO is again given the opportunity to introduce certification marks. Clearly, the role of the TEI as a State Adviser is also strengthened. A number of extensions are given to various sectors, namely storage and distribution centres, to adapt to the licensed framework of Law.4302, manufacturing and logistics enterprises and ship repair activities to complete their reconstruction. At the same time, a single register of lifts is being established under the supervision of the General Secretariat of Industry, which is very necessary because only about 50% of lifts are registered in our country, with all that means to the safety of our fellow citizens. It facilitates the integration of infrastructure projects in existing industrial areas at an advanced stage of development. It is facilitated to combine the system of research and innovation with the productive system of the country and, at the same time, the General Secretariat of Industry undertakes the coordination of strategy training and specialisation, smart skills for industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, we have faced an unprecedented health crisis that has hit the national economy and what is required of us is to move quickly to bring our country to the point of acceleration, which was before the presence of this crisis. We have and were an example of the manipulations and very rapid decisions made by our Prime Minister throughout the European Union and the global community. We have therefore provided very quickly financial instruments for strengthening business liquidity, insurance, tax incentives, while shielding jobs. However, it was inevitable that the market would be affected, which today makes the need for supervision and immunity even more imperative. The Ministry of Development, all of us follow the Prime Minister's mandate faithfully, which is no more than creating a Greece that is entrepreneurship friendly, a Greece that accepts business and does not scare entrepreneurs, professionals, because it is what we need. We are faced with the great challenge of the time, on the one hand, to ensure jobs for young people and young people in our country and, on the other, to bring back a large part, and, on the other hand, if we can, all these young people and young people who have left our country, because this is a goal and that is what we will achieve with hard work and with our will to be able to create a country that is truly entrepreneurship-friendly and social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Arsenis has informed us that he will also take on the role of the parliamentary representative. At the same time, as is possible, he asked us to speak immediately. So, Mr Arsenis, you now have the floor as a parliamentary representative. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I had asked for four Members to speak as well as the Minister. But the Rules of Procedure are rules. Mr. Vlao, you know that. The Group of the European People's Party has just sent me a few minutes ago that it is taking over a parliamentary representative. He wants to speak as a parliamentary representative. He spoke earlier as rapporteur. He has that possibility. Once he wants to take advantage of it, he will take advantage of it. I understand, but there's nothing else I can do. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I will take too little time, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry. I only talked four minutes from the protology, which you know is normally too much time. And I could take the floor on personal grounds. I simply preferred to take the floor as a parliamentarian. Minister, because you deny that the debate has taken place, although you described that there has been a debate, you deny that you have used the phrase. I have no problem with you denying it. I'm glad, very well. What I want to be clear is that it is not just what we say in this room on the microphone. Culture is how we speak outside the Chamber. That's what I want to be clear. So, because a similar situation has been repeated, much weaker, and at the next meeting, I want it to be very clear that they will not continue. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u66	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u67	I beg your pardon, first of all there is nothing to repeat, because nothing has happened from what Mr Arsenis suggests. On the contrary, I'm glad he gets it back from what I understand. You said you were glad that didn't happen. In fact, however, Mr Colleagues - I beg you very much and better to come back and take the floor on staff now - you lied to the House in the Minutes - not out of the minutes, because in practice you did not bring, as far as I understand it - that the Greek State paid and paid for the demolitions in the Greek. So to get the floor on personal and public grounds, I say if you have not brought any paper that proves this, which you said to the Greek Parliament and if you do not apologize, since you do not have such a paper, you are a liar. So I give you the opportunity to take the floor on staff and support your argument. You said the Greek State pays the demolitions. I told you that we voted for a law and a contract was made between the Hellenic Republic S.A. and the company LAMDA DEVELOPMENT. The demolitions are paid by the company ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’. And if you want the technical company it has undertaken, it is called 'INTRAKAT'. It's the property of the Ashes family. You can also call Mr. Bottle, your colleague in the European Parliament, to inform you about this. He's a Member of SYRIZA. So I blame you in Practical, if you don't get it back, that you're a liar. And take the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u69	Mr Arseni, we have to end this at some point, but so that we can proceed with the procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, the debate is not to reach such a level of controversy in this House. The debate is precisely to avoid such phenomena in the future. Mr. Minister, I was mistaken when I said that Greek demolitions are being demolished with Greek public money. That's true. Do you want to see what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr Arseni, look, there can be no such procedure. You spoke as a parliamentary representative. You had taken him as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u72	Wait a minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u73	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u74	Wait a minute. We'll never finish it, Mr. Janakopoulos. We'll never finish. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr Arsenis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u75	How can one imagine that it would be otherwise, than with the money of the Greek State, when three objections are pending in the Council of State. What is the legality that a government makes a contract with the cultivating company in the Council of State if it will take the work? With what legality are you doing this contract and, of course, as you have told me in that debate - I am bypassing the rest of the phrase - 'That is why I have brought it by law'? What legality, then, is this government moving when in the man who does not know will take the Greek, why very simply there are so many objections, a contract is currently being awarded to start works on a side road? That's what I denounce. Refugee it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, let me reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u77	Please, really be the last. It can't go on. We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u78	Mr Colleague, you are a Member of the Greek Parliament. Try to rejoice at the height of this post. You ask the House what legality a law applies. The law, sir, since it is passed in the House, is valid. The only way it won't apply is if a court judges him as unconstitutional. In any other case and until the law is unconstitutional, it is normal. Because the law - beware, the phrase - is necessarily legal. So you ask me what legality the contract has become. The law we voted on. I am pleased that you are finally recognising your mistake and the lie you have told the committee. I hope that it will not be repeated on any channel. I've heard you say it on channels. I am glad, therefore, that we agreed that LAMDA DEVELOPMENT is paying for it and not for the Greek State. In substance, I have explained that this is an extremely profitable agreement for the Greek State, because the Greek State has arbitrarily declared a number of buildings. If the private company ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ did not pay the costs, the Greek taxpayer would have to pay the costs. In the present case, a private investor bears costs which should be borne by the Greek taxpayer and the risk is borne entirely by the private investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our fellow Members. Mrs Skondra Silina has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, before anything else, I would like to publicly congratulate the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adoni Georgiadis, and his staff for the enormous work that they have done in their area of responsibility, always committed to the reforms and the development programme of our protagonist and Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. In other words, this is exactly what our country needs. In the international competitivity table Greece has recorded a nine-position rise, the best in the last ten years. In the most reliable global indicator of foreign direct investment, our country has been up to six, occupying the 20th position, the best in eleven years. In its report ‘Ernst & Young’, the impressive change from position twenty-six to position nine for future investments is recorded in the desire of foreign investors. Undeniable witnesses, of course, the Greek, Kassiopi, the attempt at shipyards and a very large list that follows. However, we must take into account seriously that these have been achieved despite the many adversities that have arisen for our country in this period; the global pandemic and the quarterly lockdown, the crisis in Evros and the generalised challenges with the neighbour. But they did not succeed in disorienting and dismantling Mr. Georgiadis, not even the frontal but also the side effects, "NOVARTIS" and all the others, which had him at the centre, always targeted by the Opposition, which bets to hit the same of course, but also the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis. Minister, remember, however, always that the tree that has fruits beats. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objectives of attracting new investments and creating jobs are known to be reflected over time in the New Democracy commitments. Today, the Ministry of Development introduces to plenary a bill which, among other things, implements these objectives. [[At this point, the 2nd Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It is important and positive that the reflexes of the Ministry include provisions aimed at facilitating the proper functioning of the market, following the new data created by the pandemic. The draft law establishing the Interservice Market Control Unit covers a wide range. I would mention the creation of the 'one-stop Service' for strategic investments, the new unit for dealing with and combating illegal trade, the imposition of strict fines for the trafficking and marketing of counterfeits and counterfeit products, and the arrangements for issues relating to industry, private investment, public-private partnerships and the simplification of the establishment of businesses. It also contains very serious arrangements for the amendments accompanying it. Ladies and gentlemen, without going into many detail, since our rapporteur has covered the entire range of the bill, I will focus on a number of key points which, however, are of particular political importance, since they show in the clearest terms the fundamental differences between our own governance in the face of the obstacles you have put in and cost Greece many lost billions and many lost opportunities. We are therefore creating a flexible environment for strategic investments, by simplifying licensing procedures, thus attracting more easily investing entities. At the same time, arrangements are made to speed up the administrative procedures for issuing licences or authorisations for each sector of economic activity. A more flexible framework of tax incentives for strategic investment is being established. Given their importance for the development of the economy, all categories of aid under the general expropriatory regulation may be used. At the same time, we are introducing measures to make more efficient use of all kinds of public-owned property to legal persons governed by public or private law and to ETA. It is now possible for the realisation of investment strategies irrespective of their ownership status. With regard to the hindrance, by setting up the new unit to combat it, the Interservice Market Control Unit shall be replaced by the coordination centre for market surveillance and control. Responsibilities are widened, and not only will it concern the cases of the blockade, but also greater control over the proper functioning of the market. In the field of its competences, any checks will be carried out at all stages of the movement and marketing of products and services, both in the production, import, movement, storage and in the placing of products and in the provision of services on the market, ensuring healthy competition. In order to address complex illegal practices in the trade and to protect consumers effectively, provision is made for the possibility of seconding officials of the House of Appeal for Economic Crime, the Directorate-General for Customs, as well as officials from EL.AS and the Port Authority. It is also possible to remove tax and banking confidentiality, but also to cooperate with the National Information Service. In conclusion, I will focus on the simplification of the operation of companies, the need created by the global pandemic. Arrangements are introduced to simplify the establishment of private capital companies, allowing them to be set up exclusively electronically. This reduces the time and bureaucracy in the creation of this type of business in the most flexible form. Accordingly, it is planned to distance itself from the use of electronic means of conducting general meetings of public limited companies. Ladies and gentlemen, all this demonstrates in the most obvious way that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis not only seeks to attract investment and take advantage of public property, but also sets concrete steps towards achieving these objectives. On this path we have with us all those creative forces fighting for the development of our Greek market and national economy, which are fighting for wealth production, which, of course, you hate and you despair, but we are moving forward and moving forward dynamically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. Mr Georgios Papaliou, speaker from SYRIZA, is now being asked to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the effective functioning of the market in terms of healthy competition also requires the functioning of effective control mechanisms in order to eliminate phenomena of blockage, illegal commercial practices and of para-economics in general. SYRIZA's governance strengthened the control mechanisms. Through the coordination centre for the market surveillance and treatment of counterfeiting, which, in the present draft law, is abolished and the Interministerial and Interministerial Committee, which would undertake the design and execution of mixed controls, the coordination of individual audit mechanisms and the assessment of their work, would evolve into an independent authority with accountability to the Ministry of Finance. Instead, the current draft law establishes the Ministry of Development an organisational unit, dependent on the will of the Minister concerned, which, as a result of the real needs, will not be able to meet the vulnerability of combating the illegal trade and the paramilitary economy in general. It should be noted that these were also pointed out by the operators, who even indicated that the responsibilities of the new service are not clear, and that there is a risk of overlapping. Interservice cooperation is incomplete, which is absolutely essential to the proper functioning of such a service and, ultimately, is like an annex to a police service. Even with regional services it is not clear how communication and cooperation are to take place, something very important when it comes to controls. I now come to the famous amendment to the fifteen articles - by way of amendments. This includes provisions relating to strategic investment. The lack of general planning for development results from the fact that corrections are made to the recently adopted relevant law. The corrections are also confirmed by the general economic policy orientation of the Government of New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this design is reflected in the development plan of the Greek economy, the Pissaridis Commission, presented by the government in a narrow circle and aims to concentrate economic activities on the few, the great and the strong, and at the same time ignore, the degradation and depreciation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is also the backbone of the Greek economy. This is also confirmed by the reactions of representatives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, GATT and other actors. This small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is being targeted in order to cancel it. At the core of this project there are tax arrangements for the benefit of wealth, the full optimisation of labour and the transition to a Pinochet insurance, as well as the investment aid that ignore the Greek economic reality and the comparative advantages of the country. The investment law includes financing and strengthening rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres, sheltered living for disabled, tourist accommodation, as well as facilities for tourism and wine tourism, special tourist infrastructure facilities. Well, that's all right. However, unilateral orientation towards tourist activities is incorrect as is the health crisis, since they must be accompanied by productive activities in the primary sector and in processing. In these investments, after postal agencies, newspaper and magazine distribution services, deliver services and broadcasting programs, established by the Government of New Democracy, the current bill adds football, basketball, tennis and parking spaces. Thus, it is confirmed that the government does not have - and therefore does not implement - an integrated productive development, reconstruction programme with investments characterised by high added value and extroversion and thus leading to the country's upgrading and international division of labour. On the other hand, it returns to strengthening specific establishments of interest on the basis of the demands of specific investors. They are also photographed in this kind of investment. The consecration in the past with a development strategy of neoliberal orientation, a reduction in taxation, an unlimited ideological obsession with no protectionist filter to the powerful private initiative, a call for the need for reforms, which are, in fact, counter-reforms, will have a medium- and long-term negative impact on the country, and even now that internationally, such choices and many governments are being devalued on public investment. Ladies and gentlemen, through the combination of the advanced economy, knowledge and the reduction of inequalities, integrated development is ensured. The Government of New Democracy seems to be moving away from other tested and previously failed directions. Development through tax reductions is eliminated for the benefit of the few strong ones. Large investments are underpinned by limiting the scope for support from several companies, since incentives are finite. The strengthening of the building alone, the promotion of "investment" in the Greek with luxurious houses, hotels, casinos, shopping centres - as a flagship investment that has already become an "inappropriate" I would say - the persistent treatment of tourism as the country's heavy industry, together with investors' policies, is a political response to yesterday's not until tomorrow. Investors know and must respond to what they ask. That's what you say, gentlemen of the New Democracy. On the contrary, SYRIZA's development strategy, although it was prepared and launched during the memorandum period, has another direction. Following regional, development conferences, which were also held after the consultation of parties, local government, organised entrepreneurship and institutions, the SYRIZA Government had prepared and launched the draft national development strategy which, at the same time, promoted the three dimensions of development - economic and social and environmental - thus signalling the transition to an integrated approach to development policy. In this context, there was a specific strategy, concerning the type of investments necessary for a sustainable medium-term development of the country and the relevant tools, such as the development law, the law on strategic investment, etc., had been established. Such a plan, ladies and gentlemen, can make Greece attractive for considerable investment, so that there can be growth and exports and employment and so that our country will not be lost its chance of participating in the fourth industrial revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy is called at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurship and growth are at the heart of today. Fitting the blockage is a key parameter for the growth of business, especially in the critical economic period that we are experiencing. The Ministry of Development has already made great progress in this part. The statistics that the Minister has recently given are impressive. In the first year of governance of the country by New Democracy controls increased by 600% and fines of EUR 2,200 000 were made compared to just EUR 390,000 last year. Obviously, these numbers translate into legal jobs, income, prosperity, growth. The new market control unit, which is set up by the current bill, aims at better coordination and further intensification of trade controls. Amongst other things, the EMEA controls product documentation, deals with consumer misleading cases, undertakes the establishment and coordination of mixed control scales at local, regional and national level. The role of the DEME is also extended to the development of the national strategic plan and programming to deal with illegal trade in cooperation with the Directorate-General of the Economic Crime Corps. The main functions of the new unit are the collection of all elements relating to illegal trade and carried out through electronic stores. A digital data-management system will operate outside the DIA. In this context, it is planned to record extremely useful statistics and to report equally important reports. These reports will specify short- and long-term objectives in the fight against trade and consumer support. The movement of counterfeit products is a huge issue that causes great losses of revenue to legal companies. This draft law provides detailed records of fines imposed by the IMO in the case of counterfeit or counterfeit products. The second chapter of the bill includes arrangements that enhance entrepreneurship and work in general. Simplification and acceleration of procedures is once again what is needed and is achieved through the extension of digitisation. The creation of a private capital company is now only electronically through the electronic "one-stop Service". In addition, the licensing and the imposition of fines to the professionals of the outdoor markets are made electronically through the OPSA and is the information system for regional self-government. The bill includes a number of provisions that improve the Greek investment environment. The deadline for the technical reconstruction of shipbuilding is extended until the end of 2021. Thus, appropriate time will be given for the revitalization of the Greek shipyards. The Smart Specialisation Strategy for Industry and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises for the period 2021-2027 concerns strengthening research and innovation in these sectors through ESDP programmes and under the coordination of the General Secretariat for Industry. With a view again to strengthening investment, the deadline for the completion of the investment projects by the companies that have been subject to development laws is extended by the end of 2021. In fact, they are part of development laws and sports facilities to give serious incentives to boost sport. Finally, today's draft law places particular emphasis on the development of research and innovation. In particular, Article 6 of Amendment 419 excludes researchers and GLP members from the single wage for their employment in research activity. It is thus given a strong incentive to those who want to produce knowledge through research, to remain in Greece and to be part of a new creative age. To sum up, today's bill has a clear and multifaceted development orientation. The new DIAMEA solves the problems of overlap in this area, and is the tool of support for businesses and consumer protection. In conclusion, the government has set too high the block of anti-trafficking with immediate and effective measures. Indicatively, last week in just one day and only in Volos three and a half thousand parachutes were confiscated. Entrepreneurs now know that the government and all the public apparatus are next to them in every way. They know that the public is not their opponent, but an ally and a catalyst to their success. Because that's our policy. We support the business and thus the creation of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u85	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. You are always succinct of speech and brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u87	Mr George Vlachos is now called to Stepma. After Mr Vlavo prepare the amendment by the State Secretary, Mr Georgiontas, and immediately thereafter by the State Secretary, Mr Dimas. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to attach particular importance and importance to the trunk of the bill that we are discussing, which is the Inter-Services Unit of the Market, an initiative that comes up with the confusion of competences that exists today, to protect the market, entrepreneurship, the consumer and therefore, at last, to make substantial checks, not only, but also to process statistics and monitor e-commerce. There have so far been two bodies: the Ministry of Development’s auditing and observatory and the coordinating market surveillance centre to deal with the illegal trade. The confusion was a given one. The involvement of responsibilities was also a given one. Of course, there were checks. In fact, we should point out that in 2020 controls, compared to the past, were much more. However, the problems in the auditing bodies existed and the political will to control was not enough. Today this political will is manifested by the drafting of the bill by the creation of a single control body of the DIAMEA. Since, however, it was heard by a member of the opposition, that for the New Democracy it appears that consumer protection is not important - that is to say, question the political will of the New Democracy - I must remind all of the wings of the New Democracy's time-consuming attitude to consumer protection, such as the creation of the General Secretariat for Consumers, the Consumers' Counselor, '1520', the market control department, are important decisions at critical times that have been linked to the New Democracy. These were either created in a New Democracy like "1520" with the present colleague and then Secretary-General of the Consumer, Yannis Economou, who gave him life and practically the number of the protection of every citizen, or they have actually been active, they have been activated in a New Democracy with some other institutions that had been created. These were the HSY, the market protection agency, which was set up in 2009 as a necessity and is something similar to the DIAMEA that is currently being done for that time. He was a political person, a special secretary, and when the New Democracy left the government in 2009, the PASOK that came to the government abolished the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There was no need for control on the market! So do not criticise us today and question the political will to intervene. And what did she do in her place? An address at the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Development, an address that is probably the one you are abolishing today, Minister. She must be. And why do you abolish it? Because it was obviously ineffective. And why was it ineffective? For a few years, since it has not worked, it has had to create this coordinating centre which is now being merged. That was the reality. That was the reality that happened then. So we, ladies and gentlemen, say that the market is obviously free, in the sense that there are no price interventions. The supply and demand are working. But another free market and another uncomplicated market. And so that the market is not inconsistent, there are obviously checks. There will never be price controls, because that is not possible. However, there can be a thousand other checks which may result in prices. That was, if you want, always the dominant element in the New Democracy. So we could say that over time we have placed great importance, because we combine what we call the development of private initiative and the strengthening of the social state. That is social liberalism and what you want to blame us for falling into the void, because today the decisions are being spoken, and today it is the government that is bringing about a new, effective control mechanism. And because the opposition has heard opinions, such as that it is a time-consuming phenomenon, to tell you that we know that. Obviously, it's a time-consuming phenomenon and so it needs to be hit. It has also been heard that legal persons are sometimes overthrown and that there are traders of two speeds. Obviously, it is all right, but the bill you tell us then had to take this into account and continue the social consultation initiated by SYRIZA. What was social consultation? Where did social consultation lead? Were you ready with the bill? Why didn't you bring it to the vote? First of all, this bill we are voting on, as was said very well by the Ministry's political leadership - I do not remember who said it specifically - nor 5% is that of the consultation you did at that time. But even beyond that, it has been heard that in the end the bill that we bring is rough, inadequate, incapable of regulating the complexity and difficulties of the market. And what does SYRIZA propose? Listen. To plan, he says, an Interministerial Committee which would be responsible for drawing up and carrying out mixed controls, with the aim of making the Interministerial Authority then independent to be accountable to the Ministry of Finance. First of all, the independent authorities are not accountable. They're independent authorities on their own. Secondly, if you want no control, you make an independent authority to do nothing. Why are you telling us that DIAMEA - and you are saying this as a category - is dependent on the will of the Minister concerned? But that's what we wanted. Is there anyone other than the political leadership by the Minister and the State Secretarys who can testify in his period of government his political will to carry out checks? He is the leader, and he must be responsible, and he must be responsible, because at the end of the day - he is judged, not the independent authority. Who will be looking for responsibility? Obviously, the Minister and the government. So that's what we're doing today. And with regard to this committee you say, the interministerial body, which will take over the actions, etc., you will then come to another stage of your speech and denounce it by saying: "As you can see, it is not possible for an institution that is likely to carry out control over fields, such as the illegal trade of footwear, clothing, after urgent information... it will have to wait two and three days for service approvals for travel, cost cover and necessary police assistance." But, with this you deceive what you said, basically admitting that we will wait for an interministerialist, which will be within a grid of bureaucracy, confusion of competences and inefficiency, to change the data on the market. So, you're out of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u89	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u90	I shall conclude, Mr President. And because you argued that for your day, checks were carried out, they were made where you could not do any different, because you do not really believe the area of control. And because you don't believe him, you can't serve him. So today, if something really has changed, you only have to vote together to create this new control unit in the hope and wish that it will be effective for the benefit of Greek society. But at the end of the day, even if some weakness occurs, here we are to make changes. The need, however, must be agreed on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u91	Thank you too, Mr Vlacho. The reason is now that the Deputy Minister for Digital Governance, Mr Georgiodas, has the floor to develop the amendment. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will develop the second article of Amendment No 418 and a specialist number 25 that refers to the possibility of receiving compensation from the "Greek Post S.A." for the damage suffered by the pandemic. The "Greek Posts S.A." as a body providing the universal postal service, i.e. with a project that they are obliged to carry out throughout Greece, have unfortunately suffered damage because of the pandemic. This damage is at different levels. For example, it has something to do with the staff who have had to hire to cover the gaps of some four hundred special permits, or with its employees who belonged to vulnerable groups, with the special supplies they had to have for posters who came out and went to our fellow citizens' houses, but also with the reduction of the object that has been in this period and which is still in place, as much of the population did not use some of its services, especially for payment to postal services, but for electronic payment. All of this created a great cost for the "Greek Post S.A.", which on the other hand is called upon to fulfil their purpose and destination in terms of universal postal service. So, with this amendment, we give the possibility of calling for compensation, but on the condition that the European Commission approves this amendment. The terms and conditions for such compensation will be clarified by a joint ministerial decision which will follow and, of course, with an independent accredited body, who will identify it. I think, therefore, that precisely because the aim is to enable the "Greek Postes S.A." to continue to provide the universal postal service throughout the whole of Greece, this amendment must be voted on by this House, which gives the opportunity to cover this damage which has taken place during the pandemic period. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Christos Dimas, State Secretary for Development and Investment, has the floor now. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is lagging behind in research and development expenditure compared with the rest of the European Union. If you see the figures of 2017 and 2018, you will find that Greece is in the 20th place of the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union at that time. In fact, Greece spends 1.13% of GDP on research and development, when the European average is 2.07% and the target for 2020 is 3%. And the question is this: do we want to increase research and development expenditure in the country? We want, and that is why we are already bringing Article 46 into this law, where we are more than tripling the percentage of expenditure for companies investing in research and development. Do we want to repatriate some of our scientists who have left abroad, yes or no? If we want it, we are voting in favour of the provision. If we do not want it, we do not vote for the provision. However, we do not claim that this provision solves all the problems with regard to brain leakage. However, in July 2019, when the Government took over, the General Secretariat of Research and Technology examined the submissions of the proposals made by companies investing in research and development in the year 2016. Any undertaking cannot rely on the State when the State is late three years to respond if the costs incurred are certified as R&D costs. For this purpose, we are already changing the procedure. We are allowing vowed auditors to move forward much faster and if the State fails to respond within six months, then these costs are considered as R&D expenditure. Also, precisely because we are in 2020, applications will now be submitted electronically and not with paper and files. Apart from this provision, however, I would like to refer to Rule 47. I have heard from the Opposition on the criteria for the entry of newly created enterprises into the National Intelligence Register, at the ELEVATE GREECE, where it says that they are determined by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Development and Technology, but after the opinion given by the ESETEC, the National Council for Research, Technology and Innovation. I would like to read to you a few of the Minutes of the ESRB - which I will be tabling in the Minutes a few days ago, where there is a unanimous decision on the criteria for membership of the National Intelligence Register. I read: "The purpose of the registry is to map, monitor, statistical and qualitative analysis of the specific field of entrepreneurship and its subsequent use for policy implementation, aimed at providing incentives and facilities to groups of start-ups. The right to register are the capital companies in the legal form of IKE, EKE, S.A. or equivalent forms in other States. Excluded are IKE and EIA mono-representations.’ And I continue with the conditions of registration: "In order for the companies concerned to be registered in the said special register, it is necessary that the following eligibility conditions are met: first, they have legal personality based in Greek territory or have a subsidiary or a branch in Greece, since the seat is located abroad, so they have Greek VAT. Secondly, they must not have exceeded eight years of completed service since their establishment before the date of submission of the application for membership to the register. Thirdly, employ fewer than two hundred fifty workers in annual work units during the last management period, as recorded in the "ERGANIS" information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Fourthly, the annual turnover shall not exceed EUR 50 million as recorded in the last year’s financial statements.’; But let's go a little bit on how exactly applications are being assessed. I keep reading: ‘The assessment of applications and the application of the criteria for placing them will be carried out by the evaluation committee of the National Intelligence Register set up by a decision of the Secretary-General of Research and Technology. These assessors are proposed to choose, in accordance with their professional experience in evaluations of similar innovative enterprises and to be deeply aware of the potential development of such enterprises. The purpose of the Evaluation and Supervisory Committee of the National Intelligence Register is to verify that the company meets two key evaluation criteria. The first criterion is innovation, where, for the terms of this, the term "innovation" is defined by the following characteristics: To have technological innovation in the product, service or even to have an innovative business model on recent (new) technology. At the same time, there are few competitors (equivalent neo-physical enterprises or very few large companies). It is clarified that in the present case the term ‘competitors’ relates to undertakings that propose solutions with similar advantages and not those which are generally addressed to the same market. Innovatives are also characterised by enterprises whose main activity is research to produce intellectual property with a view to commercial exploitation.’ The second criterion, in addition to innovation, is the prospects for rapid escalation of sales on the world market, i.e. ‘scalability’. I won't get into the details. I will tell you that there is an accelerated registration procedure, particularly for Spin-Off, the technicians of the research centres or those who have been financed and therefore have been through evaluation by the European Union Orizonta programme or those who have an active patent, patented. I am presenting the report from the ERCF in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Christos Dimas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All I want to say is that the reason why we are moving forward with the establishment of the New Intelligence Register - I have explained it to the committees too - is that there is no definition of newly accepted enterprises anywhere in the world. We don't find out about the powder. We have seen best practices in other countries that we adapt to the needs of the country. Therefore, to include an exact definition of what is 'newly-born', as some of you have stressed that we need to do, it is not possible, because there is no commonly accepted definition for newly-born businesses. But let us refer to Article 54 for the National Research Foundation. I would like to read you a legislative improvement, which we will then share. It is a request made to the committee at the hearing of the bodies by the President of the National Research Foundation. It is therefore added to Article 59 of L.4623/2019, paragraphs 17 to 23, paragraph 17 after the second and one indent (c) that ‘is responsible for ensuring a flow of scientific information to researchers of the institutes of the HRC and for supporting their research activities and for disseminating their research results, in accordance with the principles of science. To this end, it shall cooperate closely with adjacent libraries of academic and research bodies." [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In conclusion - one minute I need - I want to refer to the Ministerial Amendment and Article 6, where we have a significant development. It is an exception from the single wage for staff employed in projects, programmes, which are financed exclusively from international or private resources. The single wage is managed, in essence, by wages by the Greek State from the budget or by the Public Investment Programme. In research, however, we have managed many research centres, even IHI, to be able to attract money either European, other international resources or even private resources. To force staff employed in these programmes to enter the single wage bill is at least oxime. That is why we are changing the situation, changing the law of the previous government and giving much more flexibility to research centres and an important wage incentive for researchers who will be employed in these programmes. In Article 7 we have an important step for Thess - INTEC, the 4th generation business park of Thessaloniki, where a non-profit-making company is founded with respect to its shareholders, the “Development Company of the Business Park of Thessaloniki”. In Article 13 there is an additional intervention in our flagship action on Coronovirus, where we ensure accessibility of research centres and EITs involved in the emblematic action, in the data contained in the national register of patients from the coronary and positive samples from all the diagnostic laboratories. This was a request that the researchers and the bodies of this flagship action have had, for which we are very proud, and we think it is very important and the message that almost all of the bodies involved in research in the country are united for a very important purpose, in order to achieve good and encouraging results for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u95	The Member of the New Republic, Mr Sukoulis, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Corinthia has experienced a huge disaster both of its natural wealth and of our entire citizens, and I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the House and the men of the Fire Corps, the Police, the Army and our volunteers. You know, in Corinthia, we've got a huge power of volunteers who've all given together a titanic battle on the fire loot so we don't mourn human lives. Of course, property and a large part of our forest have been lost, and the area has already been declared in an emergency. So it's state time to stand with both efficiency and speed by all these people who lost their property, but also to restore the natural disaster. As far as the bill is concerned, we have to place ourselves on a bill that effectively responds to one year's scourge of the Greek economy. We are coming to give another response to the phenomenon of a trade economy that takes income away from the Greek state and jobs from the citizens and creates unfair competition for small and medium-sized businesses - not only - and, indeed, for businesses that have experienced an incredible economic crisis and are struggling to survive, as well as a crisis that the present pandemic has brought. At the same time, however, we come to legislate on provisions of particular importance for the reform of our productive model, namely to create an innovative and very friendly legislative framework for promoting research and innovation, in order to tackle the country's years of delay in this area, because economic and social added value produced by this sector will all agree that it is inversely commensurate with the productive skills of our exceptional domestic scientific staff. Unfortunately, several times we see these skills used and recognised outside our country's borders. This has to change and change. In particular, as regards the illegal trade, the Ministry of Development and the Government did not, of course, expect the bill to proceed with the fight against this type of crime, as the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Papathanassis, rightly described it. We have not waited until now to claim about EUR 1.3 billion lost from the funds of the Greek state nor the twenty-five thousand jobs lost by the operation of the market. In our first year of government - you heard it earlier than the State Secretary - controls were increased by 600%, seizures increased by 372%, and by 140% the fines in relation to the corresponding period, of course, which was the previous government, your own colleagues of SYRIZA. The creation of the Inter-Administrative Market Control Unit is moving towards unification of auditing units for operational flexibility, to combat the strangles of the bureaucratic process and to avoid duplication of the various responsibilities. We give this unit a clear strategic objective which is to protect healthy and legitimate entrepreneurship. We are giving the facilities for the success of operational actions with the first guarantee of the creation of well-trained executives for the work they have to accomplish and, of course, we are making a serious record and analysis of the audit data so that the real imaging of the problem can lead us to the process of taking even more effective future measures to combat this phenomenon. We must pass a practical message to Greek society and that is what we are doing. The country needs effective control mechanisms that operate in transparency and legality, and there is not even a minute to lose. I would now like to go to the part of the bill that I consider to be of key importance for the recovery and restructuring of our productive model. The transition from a labour-intensive economy to a knowledge-intensive economy is a shift that the Greek state wants and has invested in the Greek family. Our scientific staff, as the main provider of this conversion, has the adequacy of implementing our strategic objective to create a ecosystem of innovative ideas, services, products, which will be diffuse in the Greek economy and will add significant added value both to the growth of GDP in the country and to the increase of better paid jobs. Today we are taking another step in this direction, effectively encouraging the private sector to increase investment, particularly in research and technology, making the country an important regional attraction, even of foreign investments. After the establishment of the National Council for Research, Technology and Innovation, after the creation of the first "Innovation State", after the creation of the 4th generation Technology Park in Thessaloniki, we come to more than triple the over-exhaust rate of expenditure for enterprises investing in research and technology from 30% to 100%. We are simplifying the cost-benefits, for businesses, for bureaucracy, by giving alternative ways of certifying expenditure, in fact, electronically. However, what really shows the will of the government and the Ministry to classify the country as a regional research and technology centre is the creation of the register of newly-born businesses. Why, how can you adopt effective policies in an action area when you do not even know the participants? How to invest without having a picture of the characteristics of the ecosystem he wants to invest? The "Elevate Greece" will evolve into a gateway of entry and transition to the new era of support for newly created entrepreneurship, but also to a source of competitive advantage for the entire Greek economy in a sector that had remained far behind in previous years. Know that when the spot is clear, when the frame is friendly, the investment "advocators" will also come to take advantage of the new tax incentives that this bill gives. We, in Corinthia, are very happy, because this strategic leap has the stamp of a Corinthian politician, the Deputy Prime Minister Christos Dimas, with whom the joint effort and the common anxieties of the country are linked, but also of our Corinthia, and I am sure we will succeed together. I am also sure - and I conclude, Mr President - that today's bill opens new horizons, especially for young people, who are visionary of living and creating here, in our home, in Corinthia, in Yannina, in Crete, in Larissa, in Messinia, in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Succuli. Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Adi Georgiadis for his effective help in finding a solution to the negotiation between the Kalamakio Naval Group, a historic naval club with the HIDED, the ETAD and the AKTORA, for the renewal of the group's stay at its premises for the next three years. Minister, he's been using these facilities since 1947. It is a group of past, present and future, from which even now Olympians, world champions and champions of Europe are coming out, and I thank you very much. In the draft law under discussion, an integrated and powerful control mechanism is being established, the Interservice Market Control Unit, which is directly owned by the Minister for Development and Investment. It is a strong, flexible unit, which on its agenda will have the fight against illegal trade crime, healthy entrepreneurship, increased public revenue, consumer protection. Let's see the data that's in place. Illegal trade and trade in goods in the European Union cost EUR 48 billion, i.e. 7.4% of all sales at European level. When someone buys a counterfeit product, someone loses their jobs. The choice of a product from a market costs each one of us a year 123 euros from the loss of public revenue. The effects of the phenomenon on the labour market, according to the European Union figures, are at a loss of about eight hundred thousand jobs. For Greece, apart from the loss of revenue, the consequence is that the trade leads to the loss of twenty-five thousand jobs. We must also consider that Greece is at the crossroads of Europe, Africa and Asia, which makes sea and land borders even more vulnerable to the flows of illegal products. Unfortunately, we all have paradoxical images in the center of Athens and in the south, where I deal, but also in cities and neighborhoods across the country. The need for effective action against illegal trade circuits is greater than ever. In the context of such effective actions against illegal trade circuits, it is recommended that the Inter-State Trade Control Unit, which is a consolidated control mechanism, should be set up to avoid confusion of competences of scattered control mechanisms, with objectives, inter alia, of dealing with illicit trade, combating consumer misleading phenomena at all stages of the movement and marketing of goods, as well as the provision of services, detection of infringements, the preparation of relevant control reports and the imposition of anticipated sanctions by its organs, the preparation together with the Directorate-General of the Economic Crime Corps, the National Strategic Plan and Planning Body to deal with illicit trade, the establishment of mixed scales of control at local, regional or national level, and the coordination of these by involving the Directorate-General for Economic Crime, the Municipal Police, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food Service and the monitoring bodies, as well as the areas of investigation and of investigations carried out by the Ministry of Health and Workshops, as well as follows: To fulfil its mission, the DIAMEA shall develop close cooperation with both the abovementioned services and ADIE as well as with the National Information Service and the National Transparency Authority. In addition, it is envisaged to cooperate with the relevant services of the other Member States of the Union, with international organisations and with any body of the public or private body, which may assist in its mission. Cooperation is the key and must enlighten the state, business, society and obviously all of us, all of us as citizens, who have achieved a great deal more through cooperation, especially in the pandemic period. It must now be pointed out that any kind of goods which are moved on the market in any way that are pirate, whether they constitute unlawful counterfeiting or counterfeiting, or which are circulated in breach of the existing tax legislation, or which do not possess the necessary permission or legal documents, are seized and destroyed in any appropriate way. A feature of our Government's intention to combat the phenomenon of counterfeiting is that the evidence shows the intensity of controls over the last year. The checks on the parade from the services supervised by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Development during the period July 2018-July 2019 amounted to three thousand nine hundred forty. The audits in July 2019-July 2020 amounted to twenty-seven thousand five hundred nineteen, an increase of 598.5% in controls. Since July 2019, hundreds of fifty thousand counterfeit products have been seized and fines over EUR 1 million have been imposed. The bill also contains provisions relating to support for work and entrepreneurship, such as the electronic registration of rural trade permits, the simplification of the establishment of a private capital company, considered to be the most flexible form of business, through the "Stage Service", the better functioning of chambers and the expansion of their activities. Measures shall be taken to relaunch economic activities and promote investment, such as by extending the deadline for the completion of the technical reconstruction of ship repair activities, both in accordance with Article 33 and with Amendment 4/11, the strategy of smart expertise for industry for the period 2021-2027, to provide incentives for strategic investments, to extend up to 31/12-2021 of the investment projects subject to development laws, and to develop the sports economy by including sports facilities in development law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, in relation to the strengthening of research and innovation through fiscal and administrative measures, a harmonised set of provisions on sustainable development and the recovery of Brain Drain is constituted. In particular, it is recommended that the National Register of New Intelligences, to which the start-ups will be registered following an assessment, and that the taxable income should be reduced according to the contribution to a newly registered start-up. The exemption is also provided for as well as the exemption from detention or insurance contribution from the EIIGs. The provisions relating to the Chamber of Deputies are also in progress towards the development of the research. The bill provides for an increase in the percentage of expenditure on scientific and technological research and deducts from taxable income 50% of the contribution to a newly-born firm. The provision of stronger tax incentives for research and development through an increase in the extra tax rate from 30% to 100% is expected to improve our country's performance in the relevant indicators, boost the research activity of enterprises and reduce the Brain drop by creating quality jobs. The provision of stronger tax incentives will also help attract foreign direct investment in the country, as international groups of companies will increase their research activity in Greece, carried out through subsidiaries or related companies under research and development services contracts concluded between the Greek company and its related company. In conclusion, this is a draft law with a strong development mark, which on the one hand helps to ensure the functioning of the market and the protection of consumers and, on the other, supports self-employed, professional and business people, improving our country's position in relation to business and strengthening its international competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a bill from the Ministry of Development from a government which has no development strategy. This bill is coming to confirm this serious strategic impossibility of the government, and in particular of the government's political leadership, since the first moves made by the political leaders of the New Democracy were to abolish the country's development strategy and make a series of regulations that have created market insecurity, such as the non-regulation of red loans or arrangements that are too late, such as TEPIX. There is, in general, an alalum in the economy and in health protocols, particularly in the areas of tourism and focus, which have led to serious operators such as the General Confederation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Professionals and Crafts, to say that we are leading to a pogrom against small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the private sector, a serious problem which cannot be solved by the inadequacy of government measures. And that, you know, is in complete contrast with measures that we have seen in recent years to promote in secret and expeditiously, such as this incredible ministerial decision that has emerged without the municipalities knowing it, without the environment being aware, of the granting of the public space of the squares and free spaces of the municipalities to advertising companies, in breach of any measure, of the amount, of crowds, of form, which demonstrates the availability of this green Prime Minister we have, which is the interests of the different companies, and not the interests of the citizens, the cyclists, the Municipalities, the public space and the free space. However, the proof of the government's inadequacy and hypocrisy in entrepreneurship matters also arises from this bill. Case one: Amendment Friday midnight, as Mr Hadjidakis usually does - you do not have this priority, Mr Georgiadis - seventy-four pages in which there are regulations for Greek. I think the Greek arrangement is a clear demonstration of the inadequacy and hypocrisy of the government and the Minister. Note: On June 11, 2019, Mr Mitsotakis requested a week after the elections to solve all institutional problems in the Greek. There seems to be a numerical problem here. One week has become fifty-five. So we are coming today, at least fifty-five weeks later, for another institutional regulation of the independent engineer who is nothing but terrible, because the independent engineer has been in the concession works for at least fifteen years in Greece - I remember it from my professional experience - to institutionalise something that will not be the last. It is the ninth amendment which comes, beyond the institutional tools required and which have been delayed due to lack of knowledge and lack of knowledge of the subject to adopt them. And they put in for the marina, the parking places, the public space, the building heights that are charismatic to the other side - to say this - to the detriment, if you wish, possibly of the public space, of the quality, of the aesthetics and of the development itself and of healthy competition. So they come fifty-five weeks later to prove that it was a lie that Mr. Mitsotakis said for a week, as the Bulldozers were obviously lying by the end of 2019. But Mr. Georgiadis' lies are used to them. We won't say too much. However, note that an independent engineer is placed under the arrangements of the independent mechanism after demolition. There's a question coming in. Why didn't we have an independent engineer before the demolitions? But they reached a point with other legal naivety to legislate on distribution and the notarial after the demolitions or, at least, the first demolitions, which they exceptionally legislated to be demolished, while they took the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to make an act of proclaiming the demolished by the Ministry of Development. New responsibilities. Evidently, after the bulldozers, Mr. Georgiadis himself wanted to have responsibility for demolition. However, the question is this: why does the independent engineer take responsibility for public services and issue a certificate of completion of the work? Aren't the services that have the corresponding arm for the projects? Because we are talking about serious projects in the public sector from the shifting and substituting of Poseidon Avenue to the issues of racing and road network. Indeed, if the services are delayed for more than 15 days, the project is considered to have been received at the expense of the public sector and of the public interest. And take note, in the amendment, that the services responsible must be of assistance to the independent engineer rather than to what we know in technical science, namely the independent engineer, to support with all his powers because he is paid for it. They've got, he says, legs up to hit the head. And of course, in this amendment they are practically trying to resolve issues of legality which they themselves create with their own shortcomings, but also with their hypocrisy, because they said that it was the SYRIZA's fault. And now, to hide that it would not be the fault of SYRIZA, but the wrong law made by Mr Samaras for the Greek that was corrected by the government of SYRIZA, and the public spaces and the beach and this access to the inhabitants and municipalities of the region, come and amend everything. Even the procedure of the Chamber of Deputies for the arbitrary settlement platform for demolition has not been used. They went exceptionally for the arbitrary. This is all magic, which is done backwards from what the institutional framework provides. And I assure you, they will come again to Parliament and to another amendment to the notary and distribution act. I don't know if they'll put an independent notary or anything that Mr. Georgiadis will imagine to cover his own shortcomings. Anyway, we'll be here. And the tenth amendment will come for the Greek and this sirial will continue. However, what is serious is what toys are played with share capital, the stock exchange value and the value of infrastructure. For for a year now, we have seen a 'caitar' game, where the government has created positive news, in violation of, of course, legislation, with new legislation, without having started the project, without the public having taken a single euro that would end in 2019 with the SYRIZA government's programme without any procedures being given. However, investors left Qatar, investors left China, a member of the Latsis family leaves the share capital. And we ask: has the impact of capital gains made by stock exchange movements been measured and, therefore, the loss of substantial growth income for the Greek public and society? We want investments to work for society, for work, for workers and for municipalities, and not to be exploited by some in bubbles, such as real estate, stock exchanges, and not real product in Greece. This is the absence of the real development plan on the part of the Ministry of Development's political leadership, which has no development plan and is very behind Greece's needs, and that is why it will have serious problems in managing the issue of the European Union's Recovery Fund. Apart from the Greek, however, I have to say that there are other issues. Firstly, on the subject of the Chamber of Commerce and the certification of professions. Without an integrated framework for the certification of professions and responsibilities, it comes with a fragmentary, rather than an overall regulation - which is probably handy and perhaps charismatic for political officials from the New Democracy in the field - and, furthermore, it does not solve the problem with the other branches - and we will find this, Mr President, before us - we also have the issue of introducing for Greek engineers of five-year-old diplomats with a recognised master, a new review procedure, so new costs and a new restriction on competition so that the market has fewer energy inspectors, at higher costs and the cost of examinations. Is that an interest in free competition? Does it favour the citizen, the manufacturer or the engineer? Oh, no. It is at the expense of both scientists and entrepreneurship and citizens. And yet this government of state-owned parasitic capitalism - rather than free competition - also introduces this regulation, without having any plans for what we are going to do. The same was the case with the shipyards of Thessaloniki. While since 1972 there have been shipyards without a license, and while the governments of the two-compartment have made a legal framework in 1997-1998 for permits for installation, it has arrived in 2017, which we undertook to resolve the issue, to have no plans for the region. And then we did two reform areas, very far away from the skills of the Ministry of Agriculture: firstly, general urban planning for the region in order to have land use and, secondly, the law on the Aegean, so that there can be permits. And while there was only one extension to the shipyard permits for professionals to get permission there, and for a year there has been a meeting in the region of Central Macedonia and they told the people of work that the Ministry would make legislation, it comes a year later simply to extend the study. Is this the "big", "web" reform section? A year later, you gave an extension, and for a year the shipyards in Thessaloniki did not have a licence - at least one very important fishing fleet and a productive fleet - and they had no place to go to Northern Greece as a whole, all the producers and professionals and the fishing fleet and the aquaculture industry? That is, if you like, the concept of the entrepreneurship that the New Democracy has. Mr President, I think I am closing down with something that is of interest to you and because of your previous term of office. Fortunately in some parts of justice there are free minds and honest people. In 2165 and 2147, we were finally told that the provision put forward by this government with an amendment to the Code for bankers to have amnesty when giving loans in breach of the rules of legality and, in particular, in breach of the public interest, of the part of the citizens who are in the banks and who said that they are unconstitutional, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, creates inequality, as well as unfair and bizarre, the act of legislation which did not extend to specific deadlines for appeals. So, within the pandemic some were erased, they gave amnesty to air loans. The loans were granted for air-driven projects. Here, in Parliament, it was said that the governments of New Democracy and PASOK provided air loans. And we have today an act that proves that this government is putting an obstacle to the prosecution and punishment of officials who are violating the law. He did so, and fortunately today this bucket is unfolding and the image is ruining, because your own image, because the judicial decisions confirm that the government does not provide for the rule of law, which entrepreneurship needs. Neither reform areas nor the rule of law. Only ruffles that are done with the cover of legislating at the expense of our country's need to have a job and a pretext. That's right. At the expense of preparation, at the expense of work, at the expense of the partition. All this with a progressive governance in our country will be overthrown.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u101	Until I give the floor to Mr Heta and because you have referred to me, Mr Famele, I can tell you that there are indeed contradictory decisions on these matters, as there were too many laws in all the governments. This is because there is no constitutional court in the country to judge constitutionality, so that there is a uniform rule. It is widespread and, by the way, constitutional control. We will see what the Marios Ice and the Council of State will say about the constitutionality of this provision. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, thank you. Mr Ministers, I will make some comments at the beginning of the bill that we are discussing today and I would prefer to see the substance. We are saying today that the bill is trying to combat the smuggling. Let's just say two things so people can figure out what's going on. You are therefore setting up a new market control unit, as if we do not have enough control mechanisms. Mr. Georgiadis, I would like to admit that you are one of the most working ministers and you are also a man who comes out of the market through trade. You're a man who knows, he's not a scent, he knows what's going on. Do you really have the feeling that the market or the trade or all that is happening out there today will be fought with what will be voted on today? So, what's the problem in Greece? That there was no market control unit to date? Wasn't there any other way of checking? There were too many of them. And economics and municipal authorities and the police and everything, so that we can control. The problem is not the lack of control mechanisms, Minister. The problem is the real will for effective controls. At some point I saw you, you went out, you were chasing some people, you found some storerooms with products - "monkeys". These, however, stopped somewhere along the way. I would therefore like to say - and this is part of a series of legislation in Greece - that the other day a law on demonstrations came, for example, as if our country were waiting in 2020, for the Chrysochide, the new one, to be done with them. There's got to be a job. We have laws, we have control mechanisms. Will to fight evil, whatever harm arises at all times. They're full, Minister, streets with illegal immigrants. You see them. They sell products right and left in front of people's homes and shops. Improve the controls. Improved sanctions. Be stricter. Don't be afraid of anyone on the left. No one's gonna tell you anything. The Greek and the Greeks want law and order to be applied to enable them to function. Also, Minister, can the Minister appoint the commander? What is this thing just to understand? Will the Minister appoint the commander, who can be a private person, or as you describe him? To really figure out what's going on. Our President has stressed many times from this Step and from where he is given the opportunity, the enormous importance we attach to primary production for the economy of Greece. But look at what you're doing now. The creation of a sustainable environment, because we need to create a sustainable environment for farmers, a sustainable environment for fishermen, a sustainable environment for our farmers, is the immediate request, Minister. And you come here today and instead of solving some problems for these people, you're putting on a demonstrable process with compulsory production of tax and insurance information, which is actually throwing them out most of them. That's a mistake. I come to another part of your bill, Minister and Minister. I'm going to read you some statements. February 2020: I think we need to say clearly to the Turks that recourse to The Hague will give a credible and definitive solution. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. February 2020 also: The process of possible recourse to The Hague on the continental continental shelf and AOZ may be beneficial in the context of a wider multidimensional strategy, George Papandreou. The first statement was Dora Bakoyannis, Rosakis, July 2020, for Kastelorizo: Isolated from Rhodes is near the Turkish coast. Ten nautical miles is the ideal solution. Yes, sir. Thanos Dokos, Boris 2020: Soros and Rockefeller Foundations are the donors of ELIAMEP. February 2020: If important deposits are discovered in the Aegean Sea or the Eastern Mediterranean, then Greece could negotiate a co-existence agreement with rates determined according to the agreed maritime borders. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. "The logic of the Prespes accepted a temporary blow from the exercise of veto by France to the start of accession negotiations between the European Union and Northern Macedonia". I'm closing up for the ecological memorandum. "We will have to live with this reality until they cancel it." These are all ELIAMEP officials' statements. And you come today, Minister, that I know what your position is and our President, like the others, is the first of all, with Article 52 and with the definition of ELMEP as a beneficiary of funding. How is that possible? Will you finance them, Minister? The ones that I read to you a moment ago, which came out of Greek mouths asking for consideration, saying that Kastelorizo is isolated, that the ELIAMP finances it, Soros, Rockefeller? These statements are made by ELIAMEP. And for this reason, you have the taxpayers of Greece to be charged to finance them. You finance the ELIAMEP. I think in your position then you should get a seat for it. And if not, withdraw it. There is no more sense than that, to withdraw Article 52 for ELMEP in particular. We all know that they're proposing to the ELIAMEP the participation of the Turks. They say so themselves. We don't. I'm not paraphrasing. I don't translate. I'm just carrying their own locations. It's a shame. I am pleased that at this point in time the Minister for National Defence is here and he hears that. He's got a very difficult business and mission all this time. However, Greece cannot be in "red" and we can finance ELIAMEP which is in favour of co-existence, and not just, and admits that Soros, Rockefeller and everyone else is a donor. Well, prove as a government that you are not with them and you are on the understanding that we do not grant a single inch or a pebble from our Greek territorial waters! At the same time, Minister, while you are financing ELIAMEP - which I showed you once again and I freshened the memory of the Greeks for what ELIAMEP is - and while Erdogan mosques Agia Sophia, you are going to abolish the grant of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology for the Institute of Research of Byzantine Culture. It's a hundred and fifty thousand euros, Minister. For us, for each of us here there is a lot. But for the Byzantine Culture Research Institute of 150,000 euros annually! Now did the savings get us? Now, where is Greece going through this crisis? Every sign we can show, every moral advantage we can have because the stimulus of morality of the Greek people counts. It's a hundred and fifty thousand euros. And we're giving ELIAMEP money! Now we're going to some other issues. Gafa! Mr Panayotopoulos, I don't know how that happened, but worse Timing to make that glazed yesterday there was no one. I am referring to this with the NAVTEX that they have taken off. Yesterday afternoon, then, the RES transferred the following. Let me stress and stress that the Athenian News Agency is in the Prime Minister's own portfolio now. From the day the first bill of service was passed here, the Athenian News Agency has passed into the Prime Minister's portfolio. Yesterday afternoon, then, the RES transmitted that we are going to NAVTEX in Kastelorizo. This news is out. A few hours later, the government and the Pentagon disguise the news. They said that NAVTEX was issued by the Navy, but for the Port Body. I don't think they're looking for a price for our Navy. And it's not the first time we've had such gaffes. I will not say 'do' because these matters concern all of us, I will say 'we're doing'. We're all in it. As a few months ago, if you remember, with YEWUZ, which, on the one hand, you said we were freezing the dialogue on confidence-building measures, the great MOE, and after a while you had gone through them. We didn't know if we could freeze them, or if we hadn't. We're doing this. Now this or it shows heeling or it shows failures of Greek diplomacy, which are revealed after each other. I'm afraid so. Because we have proved in practice that in such matters we must all be united and take very good care of what we are doing. We are now going, Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, to the de-escalation we have had in the Aegean Sea in the last few hours. There is no Greek and Greek woman who did not feel a relief from this. There is no human being from a Greek citizen or from a Greek woman who wants war, must be crazy or psychopathic. We all want peace. But the government, Minister, in this chess-movement game, has quickly announced de-escalation. We did this as Greece first, announcing de-escalation, even when Erdogan insisted and threatened openly with war. It is unacceptable - it is our view - that the de-escalation should be announced by Greece and not by Turkey. They're building up here, and some questions you know. Who informed Greece? Is there a secret diplomacy, yes or no? We'll keep asking. Is there any secret agreement with the United States and Germany that led to the annulment of the Belharra agreement with France? We warn not the New Democracy, but the Government, not to take part in any table either in the United States or Germany. Under the threat of arms, there is no dialogue but blackmail. Unconditional diagram is automatically equivalent to the casting of the Aegean. Kyriakos Velopoulos tells all tons of this, and we stress it: the meeting of political leaders now. It is a good meeting, but the meeting of the political leaders will determine the national line towards Turkey, a decision that concerns everyone in our country, obviously without secret agreements and diplomacy. I will make another comment very quickly. I could not go into that today. The Greek Solution with a wide range of five MPs was found next to the people of Corinthia at the weekend. Because we consider our position to be out there, near the world, in society, in people, in Greek citizens. Once again, the state was unable - to tell me how much one can do with the natural phenomena - to prevent property being lost, delivered to the flames. Fortunately, we have not mourned human lives. However, we warn the Government of New Democracy, firstly, that it will immediately compensate the affected and, secondly, that it will not dare to grant any business group the burnt land to plant the next day even wind turbines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close with a very important issue for us, which, unfortunately, the rest of us and the media have put aside, we have not. The invasion of illegal immigrants, Mr Georgiadis, continues. I know you're very sensitive, too. We're talking about an invasion. I don't know where Mr. Metarakis draws his optimism from. I really don't know. The facts and facts show other things. Every day we have an invasion of both Evros and the islands. And after entering the country - now hear here - then enter into the world’s homes, courtyards, schools, churches, dedicate, ure, we see - they destroy, steal, plunder, slaughter animals, and the property of the world daily. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Listen to us. This comes to be added to a report by FRONTEX which came out a few minutes ago. So what does this FRONTEX report say, which is a great deal. It is a long communication, but I will just focus on two points. It says that Immigration flows are increasing again in Idomeni. After reaching Greece - listen to this said by FRONTEX - they gather in some parts specifically on the Egnatia Street. Listen, honourable Members. The traffickers, the superintendents, approach them at this point because it is easy to approach them there. Others move them into public places. In other words, they give an appointment to squares, give an appointment to parks, small restaurants that are owners of Pakistani and from there starts the "delivery". They're handed over to the police. They're getting legality papers for a few months. And life goes on. This will be the biggest problem your Government will have for the coming months. Listen to us. We've told you before. For a month and a half we've testified it. And I will give it back to the Minutes, Mr Georgiadis, the signature of our scientists and Mr. Velopoulos. It is the proposal for premeditated construction of temporary accommodation structures for illegal immigrants on uninhabited islands. It describes how we can transfer them there for a period of time until the illegals are deported, until their permits, their asylum, those who are entitled to leave and those who are entitled to leave. It describes how we can with little money, much less what we are now spending, install them there for a certain period of time with healthcare, with feeding structures and so on. Here's the study. I will testify to it in the Minutes, Minister, in the hope truly, because I know that you do not allow anything to fall down, to move your interest in taking a look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u103	The Minister of National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, has asked for the floor to support his amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I did not come here to help divert the debate from the Ministry of Development's draft law on purely defence issues. I came here to support an amendment that has something to do - and the Minister for Development is well aware of it, since it contributes to the great effort for the next day of the Elefsina Shipyards - with the country's defensive shield. I must, however, make a very brief comment to the previous colleague, who from all this huge mobilisation of the Armed Forces and especially the Hellenic Navy, the speedy and effective and the resultant successful mobilisation, only kept NAVTEX which was announced wrongly, as it emerged last night. It was announced that the Navy issues NAVTEX for exercises with real fire in Kastelorizo, while in fact it was a NAVTEX issued by the relevant agency, that the Hydrographic Office, which is subject to the GEN, should be approved, but the Port has been requested. It was about an exercise with a limited range of genuine fires in that area, within our territorial waters. This was estimated to be taken as a controversial message. NAVTEX was issued after consultation at a lower level, without knowing anything about the leaderships of either the Ministry of Shipping or the Port - as is usually the case - or the military leadership of the Armed Forces and we. The relative correction and de-escalation, which had already begun to develop, has been completed. I would say that de-escalation is something that we all wish for, especially in times of high intensity. When two fleets come to each other, it's a period of tension. However, due to the decisive attitude of the Greek Government and the military leadership and the Armed Forces, which have been mobilised rapidly, to take positions to defend our country's sovereign rights. And as such, we have to take it and be happy about it. From now on, I hope we won't have any new kind of escalations. However, since no one knows with the unforeseen neighbor, for that reason the Hellenic Navy, the Armed Forces - due to a lot of credit to the Hellenic Navy for the way it worked - remain vigilant, vigilant, as always. So I come from talking about the Navy in the amendment we are introducing today and we ask for it to be voted in favour of this House, with a general figure of 411 and a specialist of 23 of 20/7/2020. It concerns the construction program of the two firearms number 6 and 7 of the type RUSSEN of the Hellenic Navy. In essence, this is another three-month extension of the programme concluded by the 4-12-2015 tripartite agreement between Elefsina, the Hellenic Navy and the workers at Elefsina Shipyards for the successful completion of this shipyard project. The timetable for the manufacture of torpedoes shall be extended for three months, up to 30 September 2020, in order to assign them as soon as possible to the Hellenic Navy for full operational operation. We all understand, especially after the last few days, because there is an urgent need for the Navy to strengthen, as intensively as possible, instruments that are absolutely necessary. So the last two RUSSENSEN-type missiles under construction at the Elefsina Shipyard are now entering the final stage of their construction. The sixth day tomorrow will be delivered to the Navy. It has already been delivered to the Navy, but tomorrow the naming ceremony will be held, in order to slowly and after the last tests have been carried out in the weapons systems, to join the operational capacity and structure of the Navy. The next and last, number 7, will be launched, will probably fall into the water in August. This is defined in the amendment to be voted on. There are still several months' work to complete it. But since a ship of the Navy is being launched, we are now officially entering the final stage of his construction. So there is an end to a process of ship building the Navy that had really become the bridge of Arta for many reasons. Thanks to the very intensive effort of the Minister of Development, who sits alongside me, but also at our own pressure, a combined pressure, it is at the moment in the final straight, and the process of changing ownership regime in Elefsina shipyards. It is not an easy case, because there are unsettled obligations, there are debts, there is also a process of transferring shares to the potential but most likely an investor who is EMU, who has proved its ability to carry out shipbuilding work in Neorio Syros and has long been interested in Elefsina shipyards. We are in the final phase of this process. The three-month extension, which we made here last time, was - I would say - a two-management objective: firstly, to put pressure on the ownership of the shipyard so that the two torpedoes could proceed quickly, which is absolutely necessary for the Hellenic Navy and the Armed Forces, on the one hand, to move quickly, as quickly as possible, and, on the other hand, so that the investor concerned can complete the procedures and enter the Elefsina shipyard, signalling the next day, which will be very interesting, since proposals for co-productions of Greek ships with foreign companies are already at the table and I think they will be very intensively involved in the next period. We really need them, because this is how it is stimulated - you all understand that - and the ship repair industry in our country, which our country needs absolutely. Therefore, with this amendment, the shipbuilding work on rocket number 7 continues. As I said, on the basis of a provision contained in this amendment, it should be implemented within one month of the entry into force of the draft law under discussion. The completion of this shipbuilding project requires an extension of the programme, in addition, three months, financing of EUR 3,375,000 in addition. As you can see, it is the payroll costs, the cost of materials and the remaining operating costs of the shipyard. The merits of the armed forces as well as the high level of their deterrent ability are data. They turn out to be daily. They turned out, I'd say, to the absolute extent, the days that have passed us. This regulation will further stimulate these important parameters. I think the Navy needs these two missiles absolutely. These days, he will welcome his ranks under number 6 and enter the final straight of her construction and the rocket under number 7. At the same time, in order not to forget this, the three-month extension will put an end to the concerns of the workers. For as long as it is in the final phase, but the process of transferring the Elefsina Shipyards to the new investor is not completed, as you can see, with some doubt from the workers who came, when they saw light in this case and worked even more intensively on these two ships. We therefore want to pass the message through this new three-month extension. You see, we choose very brief extension intervals. We had previously had the half-years and half-years, because they were creating a feeling that the regime is simply prolonging without changing anything to it. This shorter pressure, the quarters, yielded. So, in this quarter too, I think that in addition to the shipbuilding work to be completed, the procedures will be completed. I know that Adonis Georgiadis works nighttime so that they can be completed and go to the next day of the Elefsina Shipyards. Meanwhile, the Navy will have the satisfaction of accepting the sixth missile, almost complete, as I told you. It will soon become operationally ready. And the seventh, as I told you, already sees the final straight of its construction. Obviously, this amendment is beneficial and absolutely in the interests of the country's Armed Forces. The potential of the Navy will be stimulated. But, above all, we will go to a next day, by extension, for the ship repair industry, when the good news emerges without doubt the next day of the Elefsina Shipyards. That is why I ask the House to support and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u105	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has been asked for the floor for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, thank you. Minister of National Defence, on the one hand, you know very well that we do not invest in national auctions at times which are extremely sensitive and which require delicate balance and seriousness. I would therefore like to ask you directly whether what you said at the beginning of your position you said at the edge of your speech or if you mean, at a time when the tension in the Aegean Sea, due to Turkish provocativeness, has touched the birthplace and the moment when it needs absolute understanding, seriousness, strategic and close monitoring of what is happening in the Aegean Sea: that the leadership of the Armed Forces, politicians and military forces, and the Maximos Mansion, did not know that NAVTEX was issued in the region of Kastelorizos for a real fire from the Greek port. I would like to give you the opportunity to return to that. Because if what you have told us in your position is extremely dangerous for the way in which you manage a critical situation, Minister. Do you want to tell us that at the time that all this is happening in the Aegean Sea some services, without the knowledge of political leadership, are issued by NAVTEX and government ministers are doing their three-day or two-day holidays without exception? And Mr. Mitsotakis uses the helicopters of the Greek Army to go from Paros to Epidaurus and from Epidaurus to Paros? Is that what you told us? I hope you'll deny it. I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u108	Very soon. The version of any NAVTEX, you know, is not just about frigates. NAVTEX can relate to any ship - any ship - even a inflatable inflatable of the Port Body. It is a formal process, which is not subject to the approval of the highest levels of military and political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u109	Did you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u110	So from the moment on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u111	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u112	Why are you interrupting? Can you tell me why you're interrupting? The Minister didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u113	So from the moment that information has come to our attention, the corrective movements have been made. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u114	Did you drop it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u115	NAVTEX? No, because it didn't happen. It could be extended or anything. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u116	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u117	It is not possible for the military or political leadership to know every stage of a formal process that is taking place between the subordinate, if you like, a tier of the hierarchy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u118	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u119	That's enough. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u120	So from the moment it came to our knowledge...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u121	It's a big amendment. It's a tough one. The Minister developed it. You answered. You requested clarifications. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u122	...the relevant corrective action has been made. And that's all. Deescalation, I'd say, is done. It would be a problem at a time when two fleets deviate and depart from some positions which they have taken so long - to say so - if one NAVTEX was issued. This, though, was done or made permanently tactics in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u123	These days...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u124	These days, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u125	Unbelievable things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u126	The corrective action has been made. It was a very minor activity. Any misunderstanding is resolved. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u127	You've given the explanations, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u128	I don't think... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I don't think that of all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u129	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u130	Mrs. Jackie, please. Minister, wait a minute. Indeed, it was an amendment quite serious and urgent. The Minister developed it. You requested clarification and provide clarification. Let's get this over with. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u131	Your answers have left us dry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u132	I do not think that of all that has been spent these days, of all the enormous mobilization that has taken place, of all that has been demonstrated by the Armed Forces of the country, following the government's instructions all along, what we have to keep is what you are now bragging about, to tell us that this whole thing has not brought about the result. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Well, we keep vigilant and we watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u133	Do you know what NAVTEX is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u134	Apparently, they don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u135	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u136	Don't interrupt. Mr. Hatzidakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u137	Don't be exterminated by a patriot now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u138	Please. These aren't issues of dissimilarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u139	What I want to say, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u140	It wasn't a hot episode.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u141	Not by chance. From time to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u142	The Minister gave the explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u143	What I want to say, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u144	Let the Minister finish. It's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u145	... what I keep from all this is that unfortunately there was a false picture, that the Navy issued NAVTEX etc., etc. It wasn't the Navy. It was the Port! That's what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u146	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u147	I do not know why the person who reproduced this news did not, in doing his job responsibly, see to it that the Navy had issued NAVTEX and not the Port, in this case, according to a regular procedure. I don't know, and I don't want to get into this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u148	How responsible you don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u149	In any case, however, what went out created the wrong impression. After the interventions, in any case, they corrected the matter. That's it. So, hold on to what has been said over the past few days, all this huge mobilisation, which has, as a result, defended the country's sovereign rights, thanks to the mobilisation of the Hellenic Navy and everything else, I think, is - I would say - only suitable for party exploitation, political exploitation, and even small-scale ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u150	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u151	Really.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, can we ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u154	Parliamentary representatives in your main speech will state all your objections to this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u155	For the amendment I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u156	Only clarifications on the amendment are now given. The explanations were given by the Minister. Come on, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week Kyriakos Mitsotakis returned to Athens with a package of European funding that exceeds EUR 70 billion over the next seven years. This is a huge success, an obvious size for the country, which, as the Prime Minister pointed out, we will manage with responsibility and wisdom the productive reconstruction of our country. Of course, not all of this was said by the Prime Minister alone. There are official announcements from the European institutions and they were given in detail, because they are part of a historic agreement that resulted from a pan-European negotiation, a difficult negotiation that obviously concerned all the Member States of the European Union and aimed at relaunching Europe after the global economic shock of the pandemic. This is where the reality ends and, unfortunately, the opposition criticism of SYRIZA begins. So what did SYRIZA have to say about this huge growth push of over 70 billion euros for our country? First of all, there are no such 70 billion for SYRIZA. There is, supposedly, some other amount, supposedly much smaller than what was announced. I will come back to exactly what you imagine as SYRIZA, because it is another symptom. For the time being, I will stick to the refusal to accept the undeniable reality of the over 70 billion euros that our country has received from European funds. What does the symptom of repeated refusal suggest? I'll use a little bit of the medical property, and I'll remind you that psychology defines so-called cross-cutting disorders. In other words, the feeling of a patient of the inequality of his environment. We have seen it happen many times here in Parliament, on the occasion of various, undeniably, positive government initiatives and measures. For example, we saw it in the three months of the health crisis, when SYRIZA did not believe that enough money was adopted by the New Democracy for the affected. We had before, when the Mitsotakis government made horizontal reductions in HIS. It reduced the income tax and deducted the cost of the trade from farmers. Then SYRIZA said the reductions were for the very rich, and the zeroing of the trade end is a temporary ashes in the eyes of the farmers. One, of course, could call this stand just opposition misery and say that SYRIZA returned to 2012 tactics. In Greece, after all, every party can say what it wants. But when we talk about the European Union, obviously, the other Member States hear what we say. That is why they are following their public debate, since they are participating in the European budget. For example, they are listening to Mr Haritsis for a smuggling of 70 billion, denouncing that more than 38 billion of the new NSRP and the Rural Development Programme are poorly added. But for the moment, let us do the thanks of Mr Haritsis, and assume that there are no 38 billion of the new NRP and the Rural Development Programme. So we enter your virtual world and read how Mr Katsis and Paulakis interpret the distribution of the recovery funds. They write on the Internet, "Mitsotakis failed, only 52% in grants and 48% in loans from the European Fund. For them, it is not important for the actual allocation given by the 61% figure for grants and 39% for loans. Minister, the development, of course, in addition to the funds, is also based on policies for their exploitation. It is precisely here that the draft legislation comes to widen investment opportunities in new areas to which I should like to refer. Article 42 to strengthen investment in equipment is extremely important in support of industrial production. Thus, for investment projects that have already been approved, their costs can be revised, without a change in total State aid, in order to buy new technology machines. In this way, industrial plants will be able to adapt their production process to rapidly changing international data and improve their productivity. Article 43 provides a series of incentives for strategic investment. First of all, tax in order to be able to use all the provisions of the general expropriatory regulation. Another very important incentive is the possibility of setting up public real estate investment strategies. This provision applies, on the one hand, to the more effective use of public-sector property and, on the other, to the attraction of new strategic investors by providing for the auctioning of immovable property to be subject to the designation of the investment project as a strategic investment. This provision follows on from a similar piece of legislation from the Ministry of Rural Development, which we voted on last week, which also concerned strategic investment. Finally, as their authorisation in the fastest and simplest possible way is a crucial parameter for their implementation under another provision of Article 43, the competence to issue authorisations or authorisations for strategic investment may be exercised at the choice of the investment entity, either by the relevant authority or by the Minister for Development and Investment. At the same wavelengths are Articles 46 and 47 that give tax incentives for research, technology development and start up business. Only a further increase in the tax deductibility from 30% to 100% is provided for technological research. Mr President, I should like to conclude by pointing out the importance of the Ministerial Amendment which includes in development law the possibility of financing investment projects, the creation of rehabilitation centres and sheltered living HEIs. We are aware of the lack of health, especially in the region, of such structures and their added value, not only for the benefit of the beneficiaries, patients or OFIs, but also for their families. This is a measure, both developmental and above all social, which shows once again that the government is next to the Greeks and that it disguises social needs every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Bukouros has asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, only three minutes will I use the twelve that I am entitled to. I would like to say that it is diffuse, now, the impression in the Chamber, that certain political forces are reluctant that it is recorded - we are, of course, waiting to see - a declining in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. They are the same forces that rushed to an incredible reproduction of the tweet of the Turkish Embassy in Washington, according to which Turkey's seismic Reis was heading towards the NAVTEX region. We cannot understand those who are really fighting for the power of the country, but also for peace in the region, how there can be forces in the country, who are trying to catch up with details in a very serious context that is currently under way in Greek-Turkish relations, to create impressions or to reproduce, even part of the propaganda, and that is also happening to politicians, it is also happening in the media. The New Democracy once again calls for cooling, preparedness, determination. And an operational document, which has just become aware, has just been withdrawn, does not tear out the image shown by the country that caused a military mobilisation in full, has shown a readiness to the fullest extent and has been able to mobilize all the international forces, which have made it clear that the Turkish provocation cannot continue in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. Let us all be cooler, more serious, and let us not cause internal breaches for micro-party benefits. That's what the New Democracy wants to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u160	The Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Lebanon, has the floor to give some very brief clarification and I shall then give the floor to Mr Kavvada. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I think that some answers should be given and should be given here to the plenary session, and that is a reference made by the SYRIZA to the Ministerial Decision on Advertising, and a right to misinformation and the right to exploit people who have lost their lives unfairly. The government did something very simple. In contrast, with the previous government, he legislated and puts a class in the countryside advertising regime, which is why some were disturbed. What did the previous government do? Questions of philosophical level. So the government asks, then, the Legal Council of the State, 'Can we legislate?' The answer is: of course you can, but the Legal Council of the State cannot tell you how to legislate. So we saw this loose end and went to class with three axes. First axle. Respect for international conventions, which the country is obliged to observe anyway, and I mean the Vienna Convention, which in 2014 was incorporated into Greek law with Law 4255, if I am not mistaken. Second, respect for the Road Traffic Code. Clear reference for the first time to a ministerial decision that the provisions of the Road Traffic Code apply to outdoor advertising. What does that mean, practically? Two things. I'm sorry it's not someone from SYRIZA's wing here. First, no advertising on pavement. We are the first government to legislate on what should have been done at least ten years ago. Secondly, respect for advertising at bus stops with one axis. The protection of the driver. What did we do? Where there are large traffic limits above seventy kilometres is not allowed vertical advertising at all. Where the speed limits are less than seventy km/h, only on the opposite side of the traffic may be allowed. I saw some worrying unions that took care of their website to upload photos of dead fellow citizens to us by saying that we will also give signs to Kifissia. I wonder if there's a driver who's going to see in the opposite stream of Kifisia a sign and his life will be at risk. We have two more things to say. We put specific limits on both pedestrians and squares. We allow signs on specific terms among which do not disturb the visibility of residents, the view of shops, windows, commercial life. So, in fact, you understand that this excludes a large number of pedestrians in Athens. We put mandatory lighting on the plates one and a half meters of it. We are putting the possibility of an immediate alert button - a police call, which is very important, and 112 that is, the European aid centre number. We're adjusting to a reality that some people didn't want and hid the head, because some people are more comfortable and some are not. If that's the way to legislate, let's know. We are introducing digital advertising under rules and laws, as is happening throughout the European country. Closed up, I'm really sorry because SYRIZA rushed to pluck into the deaths of people from traffic accidents. It's such a hypocritical attitude to the signs I'm wondering about. When they fill Athens with "sandwich" in the columns, is the drivers' attention not distracted or because they see their leader's face rejoicing and not distracted? When they fill Athens with a airplane calling us at party events, is the drivers' attention not distracted or because it is a party-side event rejoices in the soul of the drivers and pay more attention?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u162	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, when there are still posters who have photographs of political leaders from speeches in the elections, are they disturbed or are they not disturbed and hiding behind different voices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is designed to upgrade the services of good functioning of the market and to lay the foundations for more effective management of illegal trade. It protects and supports free professionals, traders and shopkeepers. It creates the conditions that will help entrepreneurs to invest rapidly and safely in our country, creating new jobs. The blockade, black work and tax evasion are complex problems and the need to solve these problems is now more urgent than ever. This is why the new market control unit is being set up directly by the Minister. The interconnection of this service with the Independent Authority for Public Revenue, with the Prosecutor of Economic Crime and with the National Information Service upgrades how the available control mechanisms are operated and leads to more effective combating of infraction. Ladies and gentlemen, the statistics presented by the Minister show the truth and are overwhelming. Since July 2019, more than twenty-seven thousand checks have been carried out. More than two thousand eight hundred violations were found and fines of EUR 2,200 000 were imposed. In other words, the market controls increased by 600% and the level of fines by 469%. Within a year we have given the first examples of writing our policy and we continue determined to strengthen the proper functioning of the market and restore the national economy to faster growth. We support innovation and recommend the National Intelligence Register, so that we know at all times and at all times the kind and size of Start - Ups that are active in our country. We provide tax incentives to new investors. Of course, we are simplifying the authorisation procedure for strategic investment in order to give the desired acceleration to economic activity. I would like to make a special reference to Article 43 of the bill amending Article 18 of Law 4608/2019. An article that created major problems and stumbling blocks in strategic investment. This article concludes a total of three legislative regulations which I have had the honour of promoting and working together with the Ministry of Development and the Minister himself, Mr Adi Georgiadis. I must, Minister, thank you personally and publicly because, with your help, a pre-election commitment is being made to the people of Lefkada. The commitment that it will proceed and take the flesh and bones of the marina's investment in Vlychos. It is a flagrant investment for a work of breath for my island of EUR 70 million that includes eight hundred berth positions, land facilities, hotel, shops, recreation and greenery that will be a lever for development for the region. This work, Minister, bears your seal. And since you're half Lefkaditis you must be twice as satisfied. Without your help this investment could not be carried out, Minister. It would never be approved by the Interministerial Committee, which you chair as a strategy. He would never go with fast-track procedures, and it is more likely that he will have the fate of so many other investments that have sabotaged because the long-term delays have driven investors away. With your help, we voted last October on the first amendment that reduced the thresholds above which an investment strategy of EUR 100 million could be considered to be a strategy investment at EUR 40 million. You opened the way for our investment and dozens of others throughout Greece to progress as strategies. The political leadership of the Ministry of Development today proves that it has bold and determined bearing both additional amendments that we had discussed last October. With these amendments firstly, an investment strategy can be characterised even if it is to be realised in public property. To date with L.4608/2019 voted in April 2019 by the government of SYRIZA, if a municipality wanted to make a strategic investment it could only be made in its own private property. So now a strategic investment can also be developed in public property, this is a great step, something that actually opens the way to public bodies, and especially to local government, to move on to strategic investments. Secondly, the overall approval of the investment by the Interministerial Committee takes precedence over the competitive process. In other words, the investment is subject to the beneficial provisions of the Strategic Investment Act. All the licenses and studies they need first come out, and then a competition takes place to show the contractor. This means that the beneficiary of the project, which in this particular case is the Municipality of Lefkada, can negotiate a more cost-effective agreement with the contractor in the competitive process, since he will have an integrated strategic investment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, since July 2019, the country has been looking forward, progressing at other speeds. There is an undeniable dynamic that, despite its temporary recovery from the pandemic, must be liberated and strengthened. This is our goal, the return in 2021 to strong and sustainable growth. The government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis formed a new relationship of trust with the citizens. This new relationship is the most valuable chapter in the country's development effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u166	Thank you to Mr Cavada and to keep time. Mr Yiannis Economou has the floor from New Democracy. Immediately after that, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, illegal trade is a major economic and social problem, causing a rapid depreciation of products, affecting both consumers and businesses. Studies and estimates that have been made at times talk about losses due to market smuggling from 15 to 20 billion, while revenues lost by the state reaches 3 to 4 billion a year and at the same time many legitimate enterprises face problems, put on the market, and also have unemployment. Greece, according to OECD surveys, is a hub for two of the main 10 categories of counterfeiting products that are released into the European market, which, again, has the same results - as a result of the loss of around 24 thousand jobs every year. Thirdly, as far as the country from which most counterfeit products come into Europe, according to studies carried out in 2013, this country was China and I mention it because it was more than 2/3 of the total blockage product seized at points of entry into the European Union. I am referring to this because, because of the special relationship between our country and China, as regards the port of Piraeus, this situation needs to be paid particular attention. Let us add, of course, that the Chinese authorities have made progress since 2013 in identifying such violations. After all, I think it is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, how essential the intervention of the Ministry of Development is for the functioning of the market, for the protection of healthy competition, for the protection of the State's revenues, but also for the protection of the consumer through the creation of a mechanism such as PPC, which makes use of good practice and the very good results that have so far been achieved, but at the same time it is facing distortions, is being strengthened and upgraded. Minister, three are the major stages of the market, as you well know: the gates of entry into the country, the illegal distribution and retailing on the sidewalk. The creation of PPC is a very important step, it is a tool, but it also needs the necessary operational planning and, above all, it needs the emphasis, the attention of the people who will perform their duties there, so as to take account of the whole of the information and to emphasise the strict application of the provisions of the law and not the outsourcing of the deadlines, as has been the case many times in the past, so that we can achieve even more significant results than we systematically achieve, as I have said in the past. But, Minister, organized trade, in addition to the problems caused by the embargo, is facing other difficulties, most of which are side-effects of the coronary pandemic. Businesses have been closed for a very long time, consumers are too sceptical and steadfast in their markets and movements. We also have the uncertainty about what will follow. Many activities, which created a turnover, have been restricted or suspended. Therefore, commercial enterprises need support, liquidity support, support like the one we have given them with the repayable advance, with the financial instruments that operate on the guarantee of the state and which your Ministry has set in motion since the very first time. Such support, Minister, could have been the introduction of a special irresponsible account feeder for businesses. There is for individuals and natural persons, there is no business. This is an issue that I have raised through parliamentary scrutiny, both in your Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Finance, which is more or less responsible for, with a question on 1 June. It is necessary to set up this account, so that companies can use this money to pay the payroll, to pay their obligations to the public, to pay their suppliers, not to be caught in a vicious circle that accumulates even greater obligations and debts. And if one realizes that, because of the coronary pandemic, cash is being used more and consumers use more debits and credit cards, it understands how much more important and imperative the need to establish such an irresponsible account that is linked to this way of payment is now made. I would like, Minister, finally to refer to Article 43 of the draft law, which, in my opinion, is another very positive step on the part of the Government in the development and investment framework. I am talking about the possibility of investing in real estate in public and local development projects, not so national, on the basis of the model applied to strategic investments. This is a very important step. But, after this step, Minister, a lot of work and great effort is needed to address the obstacles and irrationalities that dominate the use of a series of such real estates that are related to the public or to the local authorities and could be important development cities for the Greek economy in the region. But they are inactive or inferior. For example, in Phantom such cases are the Hypertension healing baths. Recently, after a lot of pressure, we finally managed to open the therapy to Hypasia. However, the rest of the plot remains in complete depreciation, as in depreciation there are also baths in Platistomo. It's not a good situation in the Poor Vullet bath, either. Recently, it's been characterized as healing. The large plot of EOT there, on the sea, is in complete debauchment. What can I say about the Potatoes? I said it to the committee. Of all the things and all the choices of the world we have to do in that place that combines history and health care, the Greek state chose to install the hosting structure of immigrants there. Far from me any racist implied or any hint that we should not have structures to accommodate people as they should and as shown by the country's international obligations. But that was not the first option we should have made there. And of course there is the Panhellenic Lamia Exhibition. The previous government has inherited many problems in changing the new body and we expect, Minister, in September the Ministry's interventions that can make use of this resource. So there are issues, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the operation, philosophy, strategy and efficiency of actors involved in exploiting these property and, of course, of the GOI. This strategy and philosophy, at least as far as my region is concerned, is absolutely problematic. And I am talking about philosophy and strategy because, of course, they are of great importance to the country, such as that of the Greek who has been employed and employing many times from what seems to be this House. But also important, Mr Minister, are the investments that the Greek region needs, investments that will cover the productive and development gap of times, investments that will create satellite new investments and jobs, and which will bring fresh money that is so missing from regional Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Economou. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Pafilis has the floor. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary-General, Mr Petsa, to support an amendment. Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u169	I can't, Mr. Economou, rather than be tempted because I'm filthy. And because we know the area very well and the enormous potential it has, since you spoke about the healing baths, I wanted to ask you a simple question: Who is ruling Greece all these years? You and PASOK and SYRIZA. Isn't that right? Who is the question to? Why is it all left behind? To us? We tabled a comprehensive proposal at a conference held in Kamena Vourla - I was a Member of the Photidas at the time - for the comparative advantages and what needs to be done. Why were they abandoned? To give it to the private. And where you gave it to - you'll hear me, I know the issues well - in Platistomo, what happened? They ripped, not to use other expressions, because the problem is not that the same businessman is a crook and the other one is better. So why do all this money that you're planning to give to businessmen for free - and we know how they get it, you give it 60%, they're putting 20 percent know-how and they're winning - you don't give it, so why don't you do public investment from the Public Investment Programme in a single project launched by Paleobraha - you don't know it, but you know it, and I don't mean it personally, but in general - Hypaya, Kamena Vurla and continue with Evia? We're talking about all that vein that arrives in Ikaria. Why don't you do that? Why don't you make them from the Public Investment Program? It is also the 'Thrompolypse', where you once wanted to put a crocodile farm - to say these too, to have a little sense of humor in the House - and it was a mess. Why all this? We have proposed a single plan for the whole region. Why did you not do that and you have all given up, and now you say 'after the state left it, we give it to individuals'? And how are you going to give them to the private? How? With 60% and 70% subsidy. Where? From the Greek people's money. This is an example. And I say it because we happen to be from the county itself. Not to go on with the development opportunities such as 'LARCO', not to say about the metals, not to say about the chromium, not to say a lot of things, which you give them gifts with the agreement, because something about 'Monkeys' is heard, but I don't know whether or not they apply. One of the greatest comparative advantages that Greece has throughout Europe is the production of nickel and the possibility of producing and stainless steel, but also the use of cobalt that is now first in demand globally, because it is the basic material for batteries. The second comment I did not want to do, but because we had NAVTEX and everything else - and I am referring to the New Democracy and SYRIZA - I wanted to say this to you: Well, do you not look at your mess? Are you not looking at them to the Greek people who have deposited the sovereignty and independence of Greece to the Americans, NATO and the European Union, who are whistling indifferently? Do you not look at your mess that you say to others to be an extraordinary meeting and say that you have ensured and everyone is whistling indifferently, why are their interests different? It is the Greek people who will defend them, something we have told you before. And I come to a third comment. I ask a question to all of you: What party do you have to deal with from Turkey? Mr. Georgiades, answer me if you know how to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Which is your brother party, or what is your most friendly party in Turkey anyway? What is it about you guys in SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u170	HDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u171	Bravo! The rest of you, I don't ask them why they might not. Tell us what party came to Turkey in conditions of terrorism and persecution and said that Ayia Sophia is a global cultural monument and so on? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u172	HDP!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u173	The Communist Party of Turkey! And none of the channels came out - even the government should, by pulling out spikes, say it - say that there is a party that is against. And I come to the bill. We have a bill with fifteen amendments, two in the financial package of one. Ordinary tactics! You've all done it! And whoever criticizes it will have to go back to the mirror. And I mean SYRIZA and PASOK back. There was a memorial and we swallowed it and it wasn't even swallowed, because it was thousands of pages. But that's not the point. The question is: Is the bill rough? Does New Democracy not have a development strategy? Because this is the criticism made by both SYRIZA and KINAL. We disagree radically, as the New Democracy has said before, that SYRIZA does not have a development strategy. It has development strategy with problems - okay, every government can also have weaknesses and correct them - but it has a clear but clear strategy for capitalist recovery and capitalist development. All the governments! In summary, for people to understand: How is this translated? It translates into the fact that we strip the world, collect everything by cutting off wages, etc., cutting insurance, pensions, increasing taxation, collecting the money, sweat and blood, exploiting all the popular layers and creating the fund and financing the professional groups that will bring growth. I'll say more after that. These are the initials. At the same time, we are doing - all governments - inconceivable tax exemptions. In 20% the tax on the wage earner of 12,000 euros and 15,000 euros, from 15% went to 10% SYRIZA the distributed profits, net profit and from 10% to 5% New Democracy. That's a great measure, isn't it? To be developed! Awesome! They're all fat! What can I tell you? They're starving! We are collecting food to feed all the mathematics that spend on one night what costs ten workers' lives. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] The second is that we are also building a legal arsenal of 'legal', anti-linguistic with working relations from the greedy point of view and with hunger wages to increase the exploitation of workers and increase the profitability of capital. Because, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you whistle indifferent, it doesn't come out of intelligence. A win comes out of the robbery exploitation of the goodwill produced by the workers. They produce 100 and they take 10, don't say less. But not all of this is enough, but we grant air, land and sea, that is, the public property of the Greek people, to invest. You guys from SYRIZA didn't do this? What cartel are you talking about? This is where you gave all Greece to the superstition, and now you're talking over? But I'll say what you're saying, because you're also honest now. In particular, Mr Famelos was sincere, as was another colleague who didn't remember his name. So, it says, investment will create jobs and we will all live better. No, no, no, no, Life proves exactly the opposite. It's myth, fraud, brainwashing toward workers. The profitability of the groups is increasingly based on the toughest - because capitalism is also in other circumstances - and increased exploitation of workers, and indeed many of them. Question: Are there strategic differences in this House? Yeah, it's one. The JRC and the others. And we call it raw. All other parties are edited with the strategy based on the fact that society's lever of development is the capitalists and not the workers, the workers. Here we are fed up with listening to the word "entrepreneurship", we are tired of hearing who is more handsome and who serves better measures to develop entrepreneurship. Tell us, does anything work without a worker, no workers? Let the capitalist go and work it out. He can't do anything! So you have that philosophy. That philosophy you have as governments. So is the New Democracy, which is consistent with its principles, something that we recognize. In fact, many times it's even more raw and faster if you want. And right there is the great jealousy of SYRIZA. A lot of jealousy, because he didn't get to do it. He did Trump good here, and now you're dating and you've given him half of Greece. At a time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - to say something else - states questionable waters, at the same time - where is Mr Panayotopoulos? - You're bragging and charming like gypsy skates - and not to say more and I'm mistaken - where the killers come to Alexandroupolis. That's what you're like! You're the ones who opened the road! Really, how did you not go to say that it was yours and that it did not happen in the New Democracy and that you opened its way - what's her name? -'multi-side' foreign policy? So where's the review? The strategy is the same! The strategy is who best serves capitalist development. This is exactly where the fight and the individual critics are. No one's talking in strategics. A characteristic example is research. Extreme tomb silence! Mr. Georgiadis, I'll tell you what you need to do at the end, so I won't tell you right now. What we're saying is excessive? Are we stuck in anything that we don't see how society - heaven is evolving? Really heaven! People die by the thousands of hunger and the coronary have reached over half a million, and we don't know what else is going to happen, and everyone is looking at the profit. Others also live with lower, villas, etc., as much as a country has fifty million. I have evidence, and if you want, I can get them for you. This is your society. So let's start with the plausible. What do you think? You're talking about smuggling. Yes, sir. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a tolerance. First, let's tell you something. Where there is trade - and you know what trade is - there is a hindrance and it is complementary to trade. It's not against trade. To tell you this from the beginning, who is really producing all the things that are being smuggled, as you say? People get something cheap in the meantime, so they can get through, because they can't take either Armani or I know what they say what they can't weigh all their lives. But, tell me, who produces these products on the block, small sellers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u174	The Communist China!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u175	The Chinese!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u176	China is yours and we are giving it to you. China is yours and you have sold it all to Piraeus. So, that's all. What do you say now? You say, "We will create conditions of equal competition..." - as we say - "...between capitalist enterprises". Here is a strategic dispute between SYRIZA. What did a SYRIZA MP say? We, he says, will do an effective function of the market in order to have healthy competition. Change the line of words! Mr. George Tsipras, because you're looking at me, is there healthy competition? You and the Tower Dimas can raise the same weight? Can monopolies with cruisers and small and medium-sized ones ever compete? You're making fun of the world! They're victims, too! So that's the pattern. In practice, however, walnuts pay for it, those who go to take out a piece of money, duty free, but no rich small seller exists of these smugglers! The grown-ups don't hurt them. At best, there's going to be a fine high. And you don't hurt them, because back is monopolies, multinationals and states. It's not a state, it's not just the Chinese, there's a lot more. Where do these come from, from which ports, from which countries? They come from the European Union, get certification and pass them. Are you gonna hurt them? Oh, no! No, you're not gonna hurt them! At the same time, you say that micro-enterprises will be saved. Well, is the rival of small businessmen and shops the hamper? Who are you telling? Where are the little ones crushed? They are destroyed by the domination of the greatest. There is no healthy competition! I mean, mercy! Don't fool us! The same is true of mathematics and monopolies, is it small business, too? The same are the supermarkets that are multinational most, the same is the neighborhood manaves or the grocery store? A young man can never compete, even now that he's become the biological quality and fashion, etc. And make some serious income with the land-closing magmas, entire land? No, it can't be! So you're making fun of the world when you say all this. In fact, this is not an organisational issue. Now they are more focused on the Minister. There are huge problems. Diamanta Manolaku, our rapporteur, said it. Who, then, is serving this notorious proclamation “Will we break the curfew”? It serves the grown-ups. They're the ones you're gonna serve. Secondly, scientific and technological research: provocative tax exemptions for groups in expenditure. He spends 100 and he's taxed 200. To whom worker do you do this to? To whom do you do it that is a star and takes seven hundred and take off all these technology programs? What are you doing to them? I'm telling you, Minister, and you come out and answer me. All those people who make the programs and are real and smart stars, how much money do they get? Do they get 700, 800, 1,000, 1,200 euros? In some multinational, managerial, may take more, because capitalism is not stupid too. From one point to the next, they're afraid not to go to another company. So now, who is exempted from taxation, small researchers or large monopolies? Who can do research, the scientist at his house? And you're telling us arguments here now that the investigation will develop and the people who left will come back! Really? How are they coming? What employment relationships? We exclude those who do not have state programmes from the single wage, that is to say from the budget. And who told you that if they come here they'll get a higher salary? Why, would they have collective agreements? There's a jungle everywhere! There are individual contracts of employment, exploitation of hard and heated. So why do you not fund the universities massively, and so on, not to give them to individuals, but to develop research and technology? You do not, precisely because science and new technology in capitalism are at the service of profit and if technology goes ahead, they can tell us all here "You know, through this competition, science and technology are growing and so we are doing well". Of course, it is developing - and that is what it wants - because it does not develop in areas relating to human life - and it makes progress, and that is objective, but in this progress one eats bread and the other eats salmon and black caviar! In other words, these companies are being collected. Thirdly, integration into the development law for new areas. That's free money. How much? Mr. Georgiadis, how old is he? Up to 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%? I've lost the account. Yes, sir! Who? First of all, we are going to make a announcement to the gas tanks to get them to build fuel warehouses. Who's gonna fix these? Shipowners and moneymen! It's not enough that you have unstoppable sums and unstoppable properties, you give them free of charge! Where? From your wallet? Oh, no! From the Greek people and the European people, if there are programs, parking spaces. And where the abstraction is is that I heard one of the Volos of the New Democracy speaking and I say, "Hey! There is also a limit, a limit of inhumanity. Little, anyway, it's tolerant, but it's not big. You're funding them to build rehabilitation centers for LEADER, that is. Yeah? Why? Are they capitalists and they want to do it? Let's go and do it. Why don't you give this money to be made public and free? What does "private sector" mean? It means he's taking advantage of human problems. That's what he'll do and he proved it to the coroner. Your private sector proved it and the reign of capitalism in the coronary! All clinics, money! All channels, money, to advertise "Learn not to die"! So barbaric is your system, and that's what you're doing here. Who's serving? The investors. Who's going to build such rehab centers? And you're paying them upstairs? Aren't you embarrassed? You're not ashamed! And you talk to these people who have problems? Do you know how they live? Now, the kids are out of school. What are you doing about it? They don't accept them because they're problematic groups. And it is! What has your state done with the barbaric? He's done more! He's committed to father and mother so they can take care of their child. And now you tell him "Because we don't make, go to the private sector." Where will they find them, so they can go and pay? Even if you take the EEA and pay, who's the money? It's the rest of the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I'd like to say one more thing. Why are you increasing the maximum amount of aid from five to ten million? Why? I mean, you're gonna give double the money to make investments. Well, with capitalism, aren't you? To take the risk. Say, "Nothing. If you want, go and invest." We do not agree, because that does not exist. And here we'll answer Mr. Famello for leaving. We, he says, are not with state-owned capitalism, but with free competition. Over and over from the right to a thousand in the New Democracy! With a thousand literally!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u177	On the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Tsipras, aren't you with the state-runner? Why did you reduce taxation to entrepreneurs? Why did you make a development law with 60% subsidy? Isn't that a state-runner? What is it? Is it "space" from space? Didn't you do that? Didn't you give a thousand motives? Didn't you give public property? Isn't that a state house? So what is it? Capitalism without a state of capitalism does not stand and this is historically proven. So, Greek. Mr. Georgiadis, I will propose to you. Don't you call the representatives of SYRIZA and KINAL to hold a marathon closed meeting without cell phones and secretly agree to them, why is the spectacle ridiculous? Together you voted for the Greek and now what is the matter? If Latsi gave the shares, or if Mitsos gave them to Thanasis! That's the big question! And what is the essential criticism? Don't give up on those tricks. Business groups, as in Thessaloniki and elsewhere. With other people you've made a conciliator, with other people the New Democracy does. That's what's going on. Let's not call Bibby too, with the order you've been doing there. So sit down and find the reasons why you strategically agree to everything. The people have another way out and the sooner they realize it, the better for them. The system has rotted. The system dies objectively and dies both people and the issue of overturning and change is on the agenda to have a system that moves through just one law: not the barbaric capitalist profit, but human needs. That's socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u180	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u181	Two things. Firstly, I am tabling the legislative proposals in this House so that you can have the time to see them. It's completely technical. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis presents the above-mentioned legislative improvements:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TAKE PAGE 225-229
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u182	I should also like to say to Mr Palhei that we are fully in agreement. Two streets have life: capitalism and communism. We are with capitalism proudly and clearly. You with communism. No problem. All others are ‘in between’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u183	There's two doors!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Paphie, would you like to place yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u185	Ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u186	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Georgiadis, there's two streets. One is in hell, capitalism. The other one's in heaven!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u188	Mr Janakopoulos, if you will allow me to give the floor for two, three minutes for one position on the amendment to Mr Petsa, and immediately after taking the floor. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u189	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u190	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor, in order to place yourself in general number 418 and with a special 25 amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. This is an amendment relating to the arrangements for providers of digital TV content in the free reception of national and regional broadcasts, that is to say, national and regional television channels. Since the first moment of the coronary pandemic, the government has moved quickly in order to face the health and economic consequences of this unforeseen, exogenous and global crisis. The good results of our country so far in dealing with pandemic in relation to other countries are due to individual responsibility and collective maturity, discipline and self-confidence of the Greeks towards the common enemy, the coronary, and to the prompt and correct decisions of the Government based on the experts' suggestions. The government's plan was developed on three axes: the effective withdrawal of virus dispersion; the active reinforcement of the health system and, thirdly, support for firms and workers affected. In these difficult and demanding circumstances, therefore, we did not leave the media sector out of support. The pandemic particularly affected the pandemics of pandemic and regional channels, as their most important source of revenue, advertising, was very limited, thereby jeopardising the viability of these enterprises. With this amendment, therefore, the Government aims to achieve a partial even balance of the losses caused by the pandemic. We are doing so because our primary aim, as I have already said, is the sustainability of television companies and the maintenance of jobs in them. Article 43 of the legislative act of 1 May 2020 validated by Article 2 of Law 4690/2020 enabled pan-Hellenic and regional channels to pay the network provider, DIGEA, the fee due for the provision of its services reduced by half for the critical months of March, April and May, in order to ensure support for their entrepreneurship and sustainable and smooth operation. By the same provision, it was explicitly laid down that, from 1 May to 31 August 2020, ‘DIGEA’ may not suspend or terminate the provision of services due to debts to television channels that have paid half its monthly remuneration for the above three months. Thus, for the Lockdown period, the Government has enabled those undertakings to reduce some of their operating costs, somewhat offset the loss of advertising revenue. The Government has been called upon to take into account requests from interested parties for an extension of the facility granted and questions and topical questions were put to the House by representatives of several groups of Parliament. For example, mention of SYRIZA, Greek Solution and KINAL. As I have stated in my replies to the above-mentioned parliamentary scrutiny, any request will be assessed after accounting for the use of the above right. We have therefore examined, although to what extent this right has been exploited, and we have seen that for the three months all television channels have been included in the above regulation. Taking into account the financial data and the requests made in this amendment, we proceed with the extension of the right to pay a reduced percentage of the monthly fee to DIGEA and to the months of June and July. It is therefore extended until 30 October 2020 to suspend the right of ‘DIGEA’ to suspend or terminate the provision of services due to debts to television channels which have made use of that right. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the information available, the reduction in advertising expenditure after the outbreak of the pandemic reached 30%, while it is estimated that it will be difficult to recover at pre-currency levels by the end of the year. This is therefore an initiative which is part of the important effort the government has been making since the first time to strengthen the entrepreneurship and the development of the Greek economy. We want the exit from the unprecedented crisis we are facing to be done with the fewest possible losses for workers, the economy and the social system. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA, Dimitrios Janakopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Every placement of a minister in today's debate is also a 'diamond'. I want to start from the inconceivables that I have heard and heard from all of us - and even the Members of the New Democracy from what I have seen, from the expressions of their faces have become one - by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos. And since the Government spokesman is here, he might then take the floor to tell us the government's view collectively in relation to all the chords - in fact, humiliatingly - but at the same time also dangerously, which were distributed yesterday with the most famous Port NAVTEX. Panagiotopoulos came to the House today and with an uncompromising naive state that the country's political and military leadership, in a treaty of escalating tension in the Aegean, did not know that the Greek port issued NAVTEX for a real fire in Kastelorizo. This is a travesty situation. This is a dangerous situation. These are situations which prove - please, Mr President-in-Office - that we do not have a government here which can be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. You're gathered and you're playing the government! Literally. It is not possible at a time when in the Aegean we are facing these challenges and we are in an extremely delicate balance, that the Minister of National Defence should come here and tell us that he did not know that the Greek port issued NAVTEX for an exercise with genuine fire in Kastelorizo, which is where the crisis of all the last few days is detected. This is not a serious government, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the Minister of National Defence did not know what the Port was doing, but the military leadership did not know them. But I imagine that he did not know them why he was engaged in the commitment of the three military helicopters to get Mr Mitsotakis from Paros to Epidaurus and from Epidaurus to Paros and I don't know where else he went. They were dealing with them yesterday and not with the crisis and the way it was dealt with in the Aegean Sea. Be serious before the situation becomes very dangerous. It's a second question. The global economic crisis is getting worse. Today I read in a post of “BLOOMBERG” that the price of gold has broken the historical record that arrived in 2011. It's close to $1.950 the ounce and it's still going on. What does that mean? This means that international markets are already starting and exercising their disciplinary power in the global economy, so that they can reduce government spending because they are supposed to increase government spending could cause stagnation. This is the idea on the basis of which the markets are attempting to guide the various economies. And within this treaty, the Mitsotakis Government is basically accepting the blackmail of the markets. And while celebrating what is allegedly 72 billion aid in the Greek economy, it turns out - and today we also have a post from the 'Privats' which reveals the Bruegel report - that it is not 72 billion, it is not 52, it is not 32, it is not 19, but that it is 16,69 billion. And this without calculating the Commission's proposal, which was EUR 23 billion. And you celebrate the excellent success of the negotiation of Mr Mitsotakis, who negotiated during the four-day summit by meeting with a European leader! And he didn't even have to use his impeccable English. Because with this one leader who met during his proud negotiation he did not need to speak English. It was Mr Anastasiades from Cyprus. Well, this was your negotiation: 16,69 billion without calculating the additional burden on the Greek public debt and its service resulting from the additional lending of the Greek economy to participate in the European project. That was your success. And as if not all of this were enough, the way in which you plan to spend this money is on the basis of a report, the Pissaridis report, which repeats the entire'monster' of the policy of the International Monetary Fund, to talk about an economic strategy, and whether there are conflicting economic and political strategies within capitalism and power correlations. I say, therefore, that it is the strategy of Pissaridis, Mitsotakis, Georgiadis, Petsa and others, which says "I cleanse all the hardships of the labour market". The hardship of the labour market you know what neoliberals call. Worsefulness of the labour market is called labour rights. "I dismantle wages, dismantle Labour Law, dismantle collective bargaining, pass labour rotation policy, and signal the entire private economy to cut wages, stop overtime and therefore create conditions that are favourable to the investment environment." This is the Pissaridis strategy. 'At the same time, I am giving it to private interests.' A capitalist system, a second pillar and a number of other things that we will discuss when, in any case, the government agrees to present this strategy. Nevertheless, the logic is clear, the strategic targeting is clear and it is the crash of work to set up Mr. Mitsotakis' great investment plan that we saw how he worked in the first half of your governance, when you led the Greek economy to a recession of 0.9% before the coronary. And it's right on this background that the government is also looking for favors, gifts and jobs. This bill is just such an opportunity. I have little to say on the substance of the bill, because it is part of the logic with which the government has been legislating since July 2019. What's that logic? "We resolve any administrative structure to present concrete results to replace it with a new administrative structure that we will have under our full control." In other words, public administration control within the framework of an authoritarian, totalitarian, neo-meditatatatural regime. Because the single co-ordination of controls, which was set up in 2014 by a law of the then government, has never worked. We managed to operate it so that we could check the conditions in the Greek economy from 2016 onwards. And indeed, this single coordination with established conditions, with interministerial cooperation, together with the different structures of the public administration, has today to produce results. And what does the Ministry of Economy come to do today? To abolish it to build another structure. If anyone can explain that to me, I'd be grateful. But that is, if you will, a general conclusion from how this government legislates. One of the major issues is the jobs and the carpets that I spoke about earlier. Here we go. Mr. Georgiadis, let me ask you a very simple question about the Greek. Will you tell us which company, which fund - why did you say that Mrs Latsis' company transferred its shares from LAMDA DEVELOPMENT to a company, to a fund - transferred them? Do you know that? Because the publications speak of an investment company in which an executive member is the brother of Mr Zavvos, the Deputy Minister of Finance. If you can't or can't get him a phone, Mr. Zavvos can come here to tell us if his brother is a executive member, he's president of the company where Mrs. Latsi's shares were transferred. That's critical. We're not talking about happily. Here we are talking about fodder business, here we are talking about dangerous situations, about a conflict of carabinat's interests. And answer us, Mr Georgiadis, if it is true that the board of directors of this company is a member of the company, and the brother of the former Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras. Mr. Pecha, do you know that? And of course, Mr. Mitsotakis' secret counselor, Mrs. Xafa. Are the publications that have come to the surface that the transaction relates to this particular company? Do you understand the size? Do you understand the size of the scandal? Let's go down. Article 10, continuity with the Greek. SYRIZA's rapporteur has said it too. This is a provision that you actually do not have the possibility to start work, retreat every time to any new blackmail or find it with any new demand from the investor. What does the investor want now? To designate the engineer himself who will control the project, who will even control the delivery of the project, and the public administration will undeniably accept all the results of the independent engineer who will carry out these checks. This is not, above all, a critical provision. It's a pattern, it's a uterus, a Pattern on whose basis you're trying to find a balance to start a project that you promised you'd start in a week. Fifty-five, yet it hasn't started. You make fun of the world, tearing down five arbitrary and then picking up bulldozers and coming home. And what is this patent, what is that uterus of consensuals? Just because you have made promises about something that does not ultimately thrive, you retreat to every new demand from the investor. Whatever the investor wants at the expense of the public interest, to the detriment of the interests of the Greek people. We'll do it all. That's not how it works. At some point, I must say again, you must be serious, as a government. Also, on Article 11, Mr Pafilis said it before - what are you doing? Incorporate into development law the possibility for shipowners and oil tankers to build oil stores on feral islands. Yes, sir. So one more favor. Will you tell us which companies are involved in this activity, the names of the companies and the names of the owners? Because something tells me that Article 10 and Article 11, Greek and oil tankers, incorporation into the development law, are not only a numerical one. Well, it's business, too. And another job and another favor from Mr. Petsa, after the 20 million, which he did not explain to us exactly what criteria he gave them to the media. Do you have an opportunity, Mr Petsa - we do not often see you in this House - to tell us what criteria you have chosen to share the 20 million in the media? So how did 99% of the funding, which was then returned by some, go into partnerships and 1% of the funding go to critical instruments? So much fear of criticism? This is a sign of political and ideological weakness. In other words, this attempt to create the new motto regime is not only in the public administration, not only at the level of this political motto that you have created all the time, not only at the level of repression of all different views on the road, where anyone who dares to question Mr. Mitsotakis will be brought to prison, in detention, beaten, tortured - Mr Chrysochoidis has done many good things there that honor the Hellenic Republic - but you have also created an incomprehensible state of silence in all the media. You are feeding them and coming here today to tell us that you will feed them a little longer because they have suffered damage from the coronary crisis. So you find the opportunity to give more. You're dipped up to the neck in the business and the chariots. And you know how that turns out? I'll tell you what. Some time ago, there was a conversation here, in which you said again that SYRIZA is scandalizing, it says a number of things that have nothing to do with reality, etc. So, uh, so, uh, do you know what theme is, gentlemen of the government? In relation to the possibility you've given the banks to clean up various aerospace and seashore cases, how? By saying that now malicious infidelity in the case of the banks and the sea-shoulders will only be prosecuted on condition that the bank's administration is indicted. We told you then that this is grossly unconstitutional, that in reality this only does is that it also creates a treaty where "Yiannis is buying, Yannis drinks", that is, the bank will give up itself for having issued sea loans. We told you these things aren't happening, they're unconstitutional. You're going to cover cases. You're going to create conditions, if you want, huge, criminal-covering character with what you're doing. You told us that SYRIZA's scandalology, SYRIZA who sees ghosts and stuff, and that all of this is so that banks can deal with the problem of red loans. Irrelevant things! We have today, a few days ago, two congresses of the Flooding Council, what do they say? That these types of arrangements are blatantly violating the Constitution and must be cancelled. No longer comes SYRIZA, not the Mera25, not the JRC, but the polluter board tells you "stop doing business, get serious". Well, things are in all fields too serious. The only thing that's not serious is that government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u194	I should now like to give the floor to Minister Petsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Two - three points I would like to point out, in response to what Mr Janakopoulos said. First of all, Mr. Janakopoulou, we are not playing the government. We are government, and this is what the Greek people see every day and it is reflected everywhere in all the measurements of public opinion, quantitative and qualitative. Whoever you ask in the street believes in the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis that it has dealt with difficult things and has done so and that is reflected in the national confidence that Greeks feel today. On the contrary, I know some other governments that played, who thought they would tear up the memorials with a law and an article and cost the Greek people more than 100 billion and brought new memoranda and extended the exit of the Greek society from the deadlocks of the memoranda. Also, I know some other governments that were playing with photoshop on fires, on a board, at a press conference, while they had a hundred people burned. They were then playing the government. Now we have a government! With regard to political and ideological weakness, I think you should look in the mirror. As far as the issue of the report today on the allocation of money is concerned, yes, they also make mistakes and the EUR 16.69 billion you mentioned is wrong. It's clear about the distribution. These are 19 billion and 13 billion loans. It is a total of 32 billion in terms of the Recovery Fund. Overall, 72 billion is not questioned, because when some cost more than 100 billion to the Greek people, some brought 72 billion to the Greek people. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You may not like it, but you will hear it. As far as the subject of meetings is concerned, I do not believe that you are reproducing make news. If you see the newspaper itself, the table published on which leaders, with whom other leaders met, says "prior to the meeting", "before the European Council". He met with Mr Anastasiades, of course, here in Athens. During the European Council you can search for the daily information and see all the photos that Kyriakos Mitsotakis is with all the leaders, performing the role that a serious Greek Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who knows how to discuss and claim rights for Greek citizens, but also for European citizens, and bridging and being at all important meetings and bringing results. In addition, with regard to the latest information you mentioned on what we are doing about the media, I am surprised at this amendment because, as I said in my position to support the amendment, and SYRIZA has asked to extend this issue and other political parties have put it here and I have been placed on several occasions in the past. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u196	Mr Minister, before you take the floor - which you have, of course - you will allow me, as a Member of the West Attica, to thank you for number 411 and special 23 amendments, which deal with the question of the payment of workers at Elefsinos shipyards. At the same time, I would also like to thank you for the final settlement of the issue of resolving the ownership of the Elefsina shipyards, so that this important tool for the development of the country will have its regularity. Now you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u197	Mr. President, excuse me. I would like to highlight a technical issue to solve as long as the Minister speaks. You've only given us the single pages of the legislative improvements. Give us the scales, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u198	Mrs Manolakou, there's been a mistake in printing. In a moment, until the Minister's speech is over, you will have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u200	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for your good words on the Elefsina shipyard issue. I shall refer to this in detail during my speech. Before I give answers, I should like to say a matter that matters. It's technical. I am going to accept three parliamentary amendments. The first is Mr Vassilis Economou on the subject: "Expand suspension of firefighting auctions in the Municipality of Rafina and Marathon". It's about the eyeballs and we're giving them another year of extension. The second is Mr. Plearis. We mentioned it in committee. We didn't have time to go to GDR, so we made it a parliamentarian. It is possible to appoint a CEO to the Greek Development Bank and the "Greek Development Investment Bank S.A." and a civil servant, if he fulfils the relevant criteria. With the law in force, he couldn't afford a civil servant to take that post. We believe that public officials should also be allowed, on grounds of equal treatment, if they wish and can nomination and meet the criteria we have, to be able to take this position. The third amendment that we are accepting is Mr Vassiliou - Petros Spanakis, and concerns the extension of certain deadlines and the withdrawal of the withdrawal of professional licences for rural trade on social grounds, in relation to workers on the public markets. These three parliamentary amendments are accepted. Let me tell you the numbers for the Minutes. Mr. Spankis is B426/30. Mr. Plori is 423 and a special number 27. And Mr. Vassiliou is 424 and a special number 28. These three amendments are accepted and entered into the draft law. Please submit them to the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis tables for the minutes the above-mentioned amendments, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now we're going to get some answers. I'm starting with Mr. Janakopoulos. I was listening to you, Mr. Janakopoulos, about the fact that the Mitsotakis Government is retreating the markets. You have made an analysis of how the markets with the rise of gold, artificially for you, are obviously trying to blackmail the governments and one of the governments that exist and said 'accept this blackmail' is the government of Mr Mitsotakis. I want to be honest with you, Mr. Janakopoulos. You're right. You're right! And say why. When Mr. Mitsotakis took over, he looked to see where Mr. Tsipras left the famous "douli" with which he would control the markets. As much as he did, this duo was not found anywhere. So, to come back to the real world, when you are expressing here as a parliamentary representative a party whose president and Prime Minister has said this incredible nonsense, and then he has done the damn thing of the century, now you are causing Mitsotakis if he retreats to the markets. Well, you've learned in a bitter way that, yes, "dogs" for the markets aren't there. Indeed, Mr Janakopoulos, our Government has been responsible for keeping the loan rates of the Greek State at the lowest levels than the establishment of the new Greek state, much lower than you have delivered them to us. This means less debt-saving for the Greek people and less burden-sharing for public debt than for SYRIZA. I'll tell you about the Greek. I have not sat down, to be perfectly honest, about the details Mrs Latsis sold her shares. But I'll let you know. Ask me a written question. I don't get used to calling stock exchanges to learn. If you want, you call. The sale of Ms Latsi's shares, namely its private property, takes place through the stock exchange offices. It's her private property and sells her wherever she wants. That's how the system works in capitalism, which we spoke about earlier with the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u202	I asked another question. You've made a little mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u203	I repeat: where Mrs Latsis will sell her shares is her own account, not a government issue. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u204	It's not perfect!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u205	It's over! Because you only mention the name of Mr. Stelios Zavvos, I imagine, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u206	Samara's.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u207	I'll say about Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u208	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u209	I imagine you are well aware that Mr Stelios Zavvos is a well-known institutional investor and made a series of investments in Greece and on government Alexis Tsipras. I don't understand? Now did Stelios Zavvos hurt you? When he came here and made investments in Tsipras, was Stelios Zavvos good? So let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u210	So you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u211	I don't know you. I said I don't know. You said the name. As far as the name Alexander Samaras is concerned, I was thinking of leaving it, but after Mr. George Tsipras reintroduced it, I would tell you this. We were here in the House last Wednesday when we heard the description of how the Prosecutors Dzouras, Manolis and Toulopakis, in collaboration with Mr. Papaggiopoulou, as we accused you, that is, with the Government of Tsipras, while Mr. Alexandros Samaras was at a rehab centre for his health, went and humiliated him in the box, trespassing every limit of dignity. A thing that Mrs Toulupakis has already been accused of. So when you say the name Samaras, you wash your mouth with alcohol first. You especially, Janakopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u212	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u213	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u214	For the rest, we'll see how involved you were, because we're still at the beginning of history and research. Oh, come on. Then we'll see you. As if we don't know who's organizing the construction and that you were in it. We don't know, now we're waiting to find out! Now that the investigation's started, we'll see it all, and who the cunts are going to be cut off, Mr. Janakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u215	You've lost your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u216	We're closing here and we're going to go to the bill. I have heard from many of his colleagues in SYRIZA that our government has no development plan - I think the friend Mr Katrinis said so too - and that we do not know where we are going, that we are going to the unknown boat of hope and so forth. I have said that politics, especially in these areas, is primarily applied art. It's not a theory. It's a good theory, the "dulls" and the other things we talked about before, but that's just for show. The point in politics is what you catch, what results you bring. So let's go see a year after what we did at the Ministry of Development. We're in time and we can make a mini account: Nine upwards in the international competitiveness table. The best place in Greece for eleven years. Foreign direct investment in the twenty-ninth place since the thirty-fifth, the best place that Greece has been in for fourteen years. In fact, the "ERNST & YOUNG" predicts that in the coming years, especially, dear Nicos, in industry, Greece's growth prospects are extremely important. In PPP projects by Global Reconstruction Fund, which is the world's largest body counting PPP projects for the United Nations Organization, Greece occupied the second place in the world for 2019. So we have plus nine in competitiveness, plus six of the direct foreign investment, second in the world in PPP projects. That's what the Ministry of Development has done this year. And if you want to do so in specific projects, because I have heard a number of them, including Mr Arsenis, and others who said "what did you bring?", let's go see one - one in turn: Cassiopi. The bulldozers started and the project is already starting, that is, it's starting. It's a project that three governments were trying to start. And yours, Mr. Tsipras, has been very busy without making it. We saved 'CRETA FARM', with my personal intervention last summer, when you were all saying that you were badly involved and that the company would be in my hands. CRETA FARM has now been privatised, and to say it properly, owner. Its jobs and products are saved again on the shelves of supermarkets. ‘LANDIS+GYR’, the largest foreign investment 2020 in Greece. Immediately, foreign investment. A huge Swiss group that chose us among many other countries who were nominated to take the factory. We took it to Corinth, dear Mr Dimas, and we make hundreds of new jobs. ‘MIRUM HELLAS’, half a billion. We had the opening with Mr. Papathanase two weeks ago. ‘KILADA HILLS’, another half billion. We saved the Greek Sugar Industry, which we had and the conflict with Mrs. Jackis at the beginning. I have yet to answer whether or not you will vote on the amendment, to withdraw it or not. I didn't hear anything from Mr. Janakopoulos. I expect an explicit statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u217	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u218	Good. If the amendment is not voted on by SYRIZA, it is withdrawn. I'll make it clear. I would remind you that this company was handed over to us by the shipowners outside the Ministry of Development to tell us that we were promised by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Pitsirlas that if we sow the fruits, he will know the state that will take the sugar beet. We were all nine. We finally found an investor. Let's go to the shipyard now. Let me say here about this one, so we can know. We completed the transfer to Neo Syros, which, although it had started on SYRIZA, but, as we know, it was totally stuck. Besides, that's why the owner, Mr. Xinocosta, has given a series of interviews. And we managed to make the opening of the shipyard and the final transfer of the shipyard and the payment of all employees in November. And today I am pleased to tell you that about twenty-five minutes ago, they announced to me that all the old owners that had agreed - i.e. they are represented in 53.46% of NEORION SA's share capital, which is the owner of the Elefsina shipyard - signed in the notary the transfer of their shares to the intermediate company of the interests of the 'ONC', to transfer to the new owner after the completion of the relevant procedure. We're on a very good path. We voted on the three-month extension, precisely because there is a plan. Otherwise, we wouldn't vote. According to this plan, the due diligence process requested by the US intergovernmental investment fund DFC has already begun. This due diligence won't last less than sixty days. Our aim is that it should be over by the end of the year, so we will go to court to make the application under Article 106b and d, to pay the employees their jobs and pass the Elefsina shipyard to the management of the company "ONX" in the standard that took place in the yard of Syros, which is, of course, much smaller than Elefsina. So we found an investor to help the investor concerned manage the shipyard, have the money to make it from the transfer. I would remind you that at political level, and the previous government had decided that the Elefsina shipyards would be transferred to EMU, and indeed to a agreement signed by Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister at the time, but the financing of this project had not been found at that time. We also secured it at the request of the Prime Minister at the White House in President Trump, in our own talks with my counterpart Wilbur Ross, in our own talks with Mr Papathanassis at the DFC and I am pleased to say that we are very close to a dream and a problem of decades to find his solution and, finally, the Greek shipbuilding industry to take back and provide many jobs. And I'm closing with the Greek, so I can get in the bill, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Femellos left, but it's okay. Mrs. Perka is here, who knows better than anyone else. You know, I like politics to have bravery and to recognize what one is doing. And I said from the first moment - because I see you - that Mrs. Perka played a decisive role in getting rid of the Greek. I give her once more public credit for it. Apparently, he didn't succeed in getting it started. It was harder for her. I say it was harder because it was from a party and a government where in Greek it was like Janus, they had two faces: half the people wanted it, the other half didn't want it. I had a better job, because I had a Prime Minister behind it that was pushing and a society and a party that wanted to do so as quickly as possible. But because you keep telling me about my statements and Mitsotakis' statements for a week, let us see the statements: 26-10-2017, Alekos Flamouraris: "The investment in the Greek is not stuck. He can't just run faster." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I was told by Mr. Famelos a hundred and seventy times: "Georgiadis said that the Greek will begin, as soon as they take power, and Mitsotakis said in a week." Spirtzis for Greek: “In 2018 it will be granted to the investor.” You left in July 2019 and had not delivered, of course, absolutely nothing. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did Mitsotakis really say about the Greek? Here is the statement by Mr. Mitsotakis as a candidate for Prime Minister at the time. Mitsotakis said about the Greek: "The first week of New Democracy will unlock the investment." Not even that bulldozers will get in, he didn't even say there's going to be a transfer, like you're lying about. He said the investment would unlock. I'm putting it down for the Minutes and that. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Did he unlock the first week? On the first day he unlocked, when he called us with Mr. Papathanassis at the Maximos Concert Hall, he instructed us to take over this investment and we called in our office the CEO of "LAMDA", Mr. Odyssey Athanasios. It was the first official press release of the Ministry of Development. I would remind you that on Friday before the elections, the company "LAMDA" had made a press release that it would leave the investment in Greek if the joint ministerial decision adopted by the government of SYRIZA, Mrs Perka, were not cancelled, according to which the Ministry of Culture could intervene at every stage of the investment, on every brick that would go into another brick. And then the company "ELLENIKI S.A." had said that it was leaving the investment. Three days later, not a week, the company "LAMDA" with an official statement said she was returning to the investment and progressing normally. So what Mitsotakis said became just reality, even faster than a week. And now, what did I say on 2-9-2019. We became government in July 2019. "From the new year the bulldozers enter the Greek." You take a statement from me, gentlemen, that I had made in the programme statements, which I said the goal is to get the bulldozers in by the end of the year, and that is what you are always running away from me. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, that was the objective in the programme statements. One month later, as soon as we saw the complexity of the project, we said: "The target, early in 2020, will enter the bulldoza." I've said that more than a thousand times since. What is the delay, if we call it late, that we have suffered? When we say early in 2020, we thought you'd give us January and February. Very good. And they entered June. So let me accept that we have fallen out four months, Mr Katrin. I'll be right back after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u219	They're not in yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u220	Four months. Why, Mr. Catarini, four months? Did there, in the intervening period, have been a two-company court dispute, which obviously has nothing to do with it or with any control by the government? Did we in between have a quarantine coronary? Uh, I think you'll trust us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u221	The corporation dispute has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u222	I'm sorry, Mr. Katrin, but you probably don't understand it at all, as far as the company dispute is concerned. Thank God Mrs. Perka is here. Under the Greek law, the transfer of shares can only be made after the competition with the casino has been completed. It can't be before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u223	It wasn't the transfer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u224	Again, the transfer of shares cannot take place before the casino process is completed. So the court dispute over the casino was the core of the play. Without the casino, there's no Greek. When did the "LAMDA" decide to put the bulldozers on the demolition of the arbitrary and pay, which I had previously explained to Mr Arseni? When the Council of State was adopted, the annulment of the application for suspension of the interim measures of the company 'HARD ROCK', i.e. when the lawyers of 'LAMDA' said that we now feel safe having won the first committee, the second committee, the third committee and the Council of State, now we have great confidence, we can go pay and put the bulldozers. So, before the decision of the Council of State came out, the bulldozers couldn't get in. That is why, Mr Katrin, you are in a hurry, the competition for the Greek and the dispute between the two companies with this few months' delay. So, please, if you want to blame me, you can blame me for real facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u225	It's not exactly like that. We'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u226	Let's go now, Mrs. Perka, since you stayed to defend the price of investment for whether the projects had begun or not. Of course the works have begun. Instead of opposing this House, we have only to get those who don't believe our car...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u227	It's not like that. The public...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u228	Don't move your head. You mustn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u229	Okay. I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u230	If you go through the beach Monday by Friday, you see the difference through the naked eye. You can see the difference. Why do you see her? What's the disagreement? That the shares have not been transferred. But we said it: the transfer of shares will take place when the final decision of the Council of State is adopted. When is it planned? Theoretically it could also be in the next plenary session of the Council of State, which is in mid-September. Once the decision of the Council of State is adopted, the transfer will take place. Can I, as Minister of Development, intervene in the Council of State and determine when it will make and what decision? Obviously not. I'm Papagolopoulos? I'm Georgiadis. So I'll wait for the court to decide. That's the right answer. Once it decides, do we have a relative optimism about what will happen? Of course we do. Why do we have one? Because so far this case has been judged in the competition committee, the High Committee on Games, the High Authority of Administrative Appeals and in the context of interim measures in the Council. It would be oxymoral and contradictory if the S.H.E.C.'s plenary would be here. And suddenly say something backwards. But it can't be ruled out. He has a right to do so. So we have to wait. That's the answer. So the Greek also started and is there and moves forward. Why, if it had been done, ladies and gentlemen, would the transfer of the shares not start from the demolitions? The next day, as soon as the Greek public gets the shares, would they go and put a skyscraper in the middle? First they'll tear down what they're gonna tear down, then they'll clean up the space, then they'll start digging. We won time, then, went faster. Now I take two kinds of criticisms here. Why did you go faster, Mr Arsenis says, and did not expect the decisions of the Council of State on the appeals of the others? We're not talking about the casino now. I want here to give another answer I didn't give in the morning. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that governments would expect an investment when all possible appeals against an investment were brought to an end?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u231	That's in the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u232	The contract can wait. It's not mandatory, it has the right to wait for the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u233	No, Minister, you're wrong. I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u234	So the company made it clear that S.H.E.'s only decision. It's about her and she's waiting for the casino. Why the casino? Because it's very economical. What Mr Arsenis implied this morning would be that we would have a government that would say, whenever anyone reacts to an investment and appeals to the Council of State, we will wait for his appeal to be dealt with, as soon as he finishes his appeal, then a third party next, and in the century all investments would have been expected when all the citizens of that country end the appeals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u235	Inadmissible. That's what you signed, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u236	Obviously, Mr Arsenis, this could not be done. Before I go to the bill, I want to say this. It is sad that you have not yet learned how the House works. You did something that hurt your party and you. If you wanted to reply to me this morning, you did not need to be declared as a parliamentary representative, to speak a minute and a half on your staff and to lose your party the right to intervene in Parliament's delegation. You would raise your hand, you would ask for the floor on staff, you would answer me exactly the same way and your party would have twelve minutes to talk about the bill, because it has so much opposition to what we are doing. The way you handled your own time, completely wrong, counterproductive and spurious for your party, shows that unfortunately you still have nothing to understand from how things work on this planet. You're out of place and time. Now let's go say a few words about the bill, to answer what has been heard. As I said before, politics is applied art, it's not a theory, it's what you're doing. We're talking about the smuggling. From July 2018 until June 2019, three thousand nine hundred forty-forty checks were carried out at the Government of SYRIZA. From July 2019 to June 2020, at the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, twenty thousand two hundred and seventy-eight checks were carried out. Of three thousand nine hundred forty twenty - two hundred seventy - eight. I'm not saying the rest of the numbers because they're just as stormy. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. What's that supposed to mean? That the Government has shown us too much care from the beginning and very much interest in pressing the parade trade. Indeed, the results in the real world in our fight against the merchant this year are impressive. I feel very proud of what we have done. I would like from the Step of the House to thank in particular the Minister responsible, Mr Papathanassis, for this great success, the Secretary-General responsible, Mr Stabulidis, for this great success and the operational director, Mr Melissanos, for this great success. The fact that we worked together, with such great dedication, to achieve this important goal, is a great praise for our Government, for Greece at this difficult time. I have, unfortunately, heard Mr Arseni about defending the small sellers doing this - he is one of the greatest wounds, both against public revenue, with the loss of billions of value added tax every year, and in the insurance funds, as the workers in this circuit are uninsured, with billions of contributions lost by the insurance funds, as well as, of course, in the market and competition itself, as companies that pay rent, insurance and taxes must compete with people who have absolutely no way out and live only wrongly, smuggling, smuggling and smuggling. I have to say that we must add to this the great fraud of theft of intellectual property, when the products produced from the illegal trade copy - the commonly manufactured'mony' products, as we are used to call them - by violating any concept of intellectual property of people who have spent time, money and effort to produce such genuine products. So the parade trade is all a huge damage and we're coming here today and what do we say? We arrived from the three thousand nine hundred forty-forty checks, Mr. Villarde, at twenty-seven hundred and seventy-eight, and reached the fines of 600% over and the seizures of 1,000% over. We made the limits that this administrative mechanism could do. But that's not enough. We need to do more. And to do more, we need a combination of services, the possibility of having greater operational readiness and greater speed and more means. That's exactly what this bill does. It increases our operational capacity, so that, next year, I can tell you: July 2020 to June 2021, not twenty-thousand controls, but two hundred thousand controls. That would be a great success. So that's what we want to do. I don't understand how anyone can seriously argue with that. Your voters, too, will win if we hit the parade. Your people will win, too, if we step on the smuggling. The whole of Greece will win if we press the market. We can't argue about that. And I cannot hear any arguments, such as: 'You have been hunting the small sellers'. A number of things have been heard about immigration, and that is where we do not have a plan. Excuse me, dear of the Greek Solution - I do not remember the name of my colleague, who was very decent - but you said that we do not have a plan for immigration. Here, now, we're losing every sense of contact with reality. Do you know how much the reduction of illegal immigration flows has been in the past six months? It's over 92%. The year 2019-2020 is 92% down. I'm sorry, if we had a plan, what would we do? It's not going through a boat. Nobody goes through Evros. We've completely secure the border. And what is the criticism now? Accelerate, says, asylum procedures. But, do you not know that in order to speed up the deportations that have now begun, a few days ago, under International Law, you must have first examined the request for asylum? If you haven't examined the request for asylum, you can't deport. That the speed of examining asylum claims is increasing is the only way to deport all illegal immigrants. Instead of saying a good thing that our government really puts this issue in order and produces real results, you're coming back to grumbling, just to grumble. I heard - I do not remember who said it again, perhaps a Greek colleague again - a criticism of the Ministry of Development, now that we have received, he says, the responsibility of the Athenian News Agency, the ERT and so on, we should look at how different news is presented. I have to make that clear, because there's been a lot on the Internet too. No responsibility has been given to the Ministry of Development over all these agencies. According to a law of SYRIZA on Mr.Giannis Drasakis, in November 2019 the responsibility of the GGEI of these DPOs was passed in control of the Ministry of Development along with the General GEMI. So the only change that has been made is that the Ministry of Development's GEMI now includes the ECIs. We have not taken any responsibility for the ECJs nor do we want to have any. I'll make it clear. So that's over, too. I come a little bit to the criticism that has been heard about development laws and the opening up - if you like - of most sectors of the economy to take money or subsidies - tax relief is the right thing to do from development law. First of all, I should like to say this to Mrs Manolakou and to Mr Paphie who spoke earlier: because you are talking about another system - and there our disagreement is clear - at least to explain how our own system works, so that we do not lose our time with disagreements for no reason. You said - Mr Pafilis in particular - that development laws encourage public entrepreneurship. That's not true. Development laws exist in all countries of Europe and in all countries of capitalism. They strengthen competition between States in attracting investment. If we do not understand it here, when we say that we were up to six foreign direct investment in Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we were up six positions in foreign direct investment, because we became more attractive to investment. Because we're not just competing with ourselves. We are also competing with other countries. So in order to compete with other countries, we should have incentives. Within the European Union these incentives have been balanced through the central list of State aid issued by the European Commission. Because now we can put more branches, as we put here in this law, parking centres or rehabilitation centres etc.Huh? Because because of COVID, for the first time, the European Commission has given us the opportunity to greatly increase the margins of State aid. In particular, in the circle of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship from 500 million we have taken it to 2 billion. So we have much more incentive margin. Since we have much more margin, four times the incentive margin, following the authorisation that we received from the European Commission because of the exceptional circumstances, we have no reason to leave outside sectors of the economy, which - if you will like - to one of the previous regimes where we had less room for manoeuvre and not all of the state aids were available, we were forced to go and cut and sew and sew and get someone else to put on. The European Commission has now given us greater scope for state aid, so we can incorporate more sectors. I am here open if some colleagues have other branches to propose that we have not thought of including them. Because here our aim is to make use of this period to get more people to work. You cannot say at the same time, as Mr Janakopoulos said, that there is an international crisis that is intensified and which will also come here and at the same time say that while there is an international crisis, there is no other sector in development law, while you can. That's absurd. We have to agree on the basics. Do we want more jobs? If we really want it, we want more branches in development, not less, since - I repeat - the limits have been increased. If the limits had been reduced, I'd understand such criticism. I come to the amendments a little bit. What was the criticism made by Mrs Manolakou as well? I mention her separately, because I have a lot of respect for her. I came to the committees. I read the subject of the amendments. That's right. I have not tabled the texts of the amendments. You're absolutely right. I said - and I looked to see if it is written in the Minutes - that I cannot table the texts of the amendments because the General Secretariat of the Government does not want to do so before we take the SGP. And I told you that we would take this until Thursday night, so that we could table the amendments to come to your e-mail. What I told you, that's exactly what happened. I welcome the criticism that since you did not have the texts - a misunderstanding may have been made with us and Mrs Jackson this morning - to accept that it is the responsibility of speed, it may have been wrong, that we are not wrong and that we are destroying people without reason - it may have gone through some amendment, because in the general load it has not been read properly. It wasn't our intention to make fun of anyone. I read them in the committees and at first reading as subjects at second reading. So I'm rereading them now. Where can there be any disagreement from all of these? There could be disagreement on the exception from the single wage bill of LAG members and researchers. Maybe one of you disagrees with that. Why are we doing this? In order to be able to have what we say is our general purpose, namely more research in Greece. And you will allow me here to say a good one to Christos Dimas. This bill - and we must say it and it must be heard - has very important provisions for research and innovation in Greece. Perhaps it has the most important provisions for research and innovation in Greece over the last decades. Instead of always saying that Greece has the last or lasting place and weeping the late, we're going to see now how we fix it. The article on over-depreciation when it comes to spending on research and technology is an article that aims to attract many such investments in Greece. I will give you an example: for the clawback investment we voted on in September, I tell Mrs Jackres, because she might have dealt with it too, you had - I remember - a study on the medicine. We received a study from a committee set up by my predecessor, Mr Drasakis, which proposed that the clawback investment should be one of the tools. We took this study and made it a law of the state. We already have the first results. Fifty-fivem euros investments were made in 2019 due to the investment clawback, which would not be made. We will now make more and more money, more than a hundred million, for 2020, to have more jobs in Greece. But don't we want to have research and technology? Isn't that what we're saying? Well, that's what we do. We bring in things that will favour research and technology. So the exception from the single payroll of ICPs and researchers is to attract people with great skills to participate in these research programmes. Because bad lies, Mr. Villarde. With a single payroll you don't find the best researchers. What can we do now? If you don't want to, don't vote. I'm trying to figure out if there's anything else that you'll have a disagreement with. In the independent engineer for the Greek, who are disagreed, I will be anxious to hear Mrs Perka. Listen, the play started. Because the work began, does it mean that the government’s interest and care stopped? Of course not. This project is the largest national, development project that has been carried out in Greece over the past decades. It is the total investment of over 8 billion. Can you understand the complexity of this project? We'll have unstoppable problems that we'll find along the way. I'm telling you right now. We will always have new amendments and will resolve anything that needs to be solved in legislation. Question: Am I the first to do this, Mrs Perka? The previous government didn't do the same thing? Of course you did. Where there's a problem, if you accept that this is a big national plan, which you want to advertise abroad about how capable a country you are to do things, it's more obvious that I'll take you and take care of it. The independent engineer shouldn't worry about you at all. On the contrary. What's he doing? It ensures during the receipt of the works that these projects have regular integrity, which should be of interest to you to ask us to do so. We should not be saying 'I am voting against'. You should've told me all this time because I haven't. That would be the right criticism. Of course, at the same time, yes, Mr Janakopoulos, it helps speed up bureaucracy. I brought you Mr. Flamouraris here complaining in 2017 that the bureaucracy about the project is too heavy and is delaying. Well, good, then. Since you, too, agree that bureaucracy was heavy and we too agree that bureaucracy is heavy, that we should do nothing to solve it. Once we come to solve it, while you say that red tape is heavy, you say 'no' to the independent engineer. That's not how it works. The legal adaptation of Article 40. The 12, the amendment - I say to avoid misunderstandings - is a legal change in the law of the SYRIZA, where the list of cooperating tax states had not been updated by law. What's the problem? As the old table has been left, before 2012, companies currently participating in public tenders are at risk of being excluded for formal reasons because they have some obsolete or visible shareholders that are now tax-cooperative. What are we doing with this? We take the new painting of '18 and update it to the law. Why wouldn't someone vote for that? It must be malicious not to vote for, to want someone to be cut off from a competition for no reason. What else could you mind from all this? I don't see anything. We're going to extend immunity to members of the board. So we can talk about it again. As far as the pharmaceutical warehouses are concerned, we have explained that. If this article is not voted on, there are too many pharmaceutical warehouses where they are, in areas where the urban regulation has changed. The reclassification of industrial centres again is a very typical issue for investment to move forward. Mr. Tsakiris will tell you. It will refer to a few technical improvements to the ESRB. I should like to say to Mr Tsakiris that this is actually the rapporteur for the article on the Greek Development Bank and Bravo, Mr Tsakiris, who you thought there might be qualified civil servants who can play this role, and I tell you that I am an abrupt supporter of the private sector, but I like equal opportunities and equal rules. Why should one vote against the possibility of a civil servant being able, if qualified, to take such a top position? What are civil servants? Children of lower God? Mr Tsakiris has well done and has recommended the relevant legislation. I think I've said all the basics. I'll go. Thess - Intec. You know that. It's very important. He takes the flesh and bones of the Prime Minister's commitment from the PMI that Mr. Dimas watches from above. We have an increase in the amount of aid per investment project submitted, from five million to ten million. And that goes back to the same logic, since we have more money. Before, when we had to share less money, we forcedly pushed all the limits and pushed the branches, because we had the limit of five hundred million for small and medium-sized enterprises. Since this threshold has now quadrupled for 2020, we must make it possible to achieve investment projects that will be included in this law within the deadlines. Let me tell you that the current cycle expires on 31 July for small and medium-sized business. No extension will be granted, but automatically from 1 August a new same cycle will begin. Why will not an extension be granted? In order to start evaluation of the previous proposals and not to delay those that have already been tabled, to end the moleculosis that we may do, as you know, and six and seven and eight months. So, in order to go faster, we say that, instead of giving an extension, we broke a billion in two hundred and whoever gets ahead and goes and submits his application to the development law will join too quickly, so that he can quickly start his investment, quickly find the world's work, quickly get the economy to go forward in an extremely difficult year. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u237	And that's it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u238	I'm closing, Mr. President. That's the last one. I'm just saying this to solve breakfast. Prolongation of immunity of members of the Board of Directors. ‘EBZ S.A.’. I want to explain it again, because here I have said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u239	Will SYRIZA vote for it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u240	Mrs. Jackie will tell us. I want to make it clear. We're starting to find a solution to the EBZ issue. Indeed, it is the issue of EBZ between Piraeus Bank, i.e. Intrum now, which is the main creditor of EBZ, the Board of Directors of EBZ and the investor, Mr Karathanase. We offered Mr. Karathanasse our good services. The State is not involved in the agreement. The agreement is between the creditor, which is the bank, the board of directors and the investor who rented the facilities in Serres and Platy. Very good. At first the agreement had been placed under the condition that this investment scheme would be approved by the court in the context of the application under Article 106b. Indeed, the court ratified the agreement and approved the resolution plan. According to the SYRIZA law of 2018, criminal immunity was provided for for by the members of the board of directors until the adoption of the judicial decision. These people are here now. I'm doing a parentheses. We have not changed the board of directors. We've left the same thing. We have good cooperation with them. We do not want it to appear that we have some kind of party mood. It's an ongoing plan. They've been running this thing for a few years. We didn't want to go in a hurry and say "we're pulling you out to put others in". We don't have a problem like that. These people told us: 'But now that the plan is going ahead, if immunity is not extended until the application of the judicial decision, we are 'in the air' in the middle. What are we in 'the air'? In actions by EKKA, in actions by creditors, etc. So what did we say? We are prolonging their immunity until the application of the judicial decision, which will then also have a new investor in the whole form and will go downwards. I do not see why SYRIZA will not be in the mood to vote in favour of this provision. I really can't understand it. He says: "Would you like to let people run for EBZ debts that have been chasing EBZ for decades?" He says: "Will the current President of the EBZ or the current Vice-President of the EBZ for the EBZ owed by EBZ for thirty years?". I don't understand why we should leave them uncovered. I think we should give them this tool and this immunity. I would also like the opinion of SYRIZA very much, because I have heard here - and I am surprised - that if it is about investment, I know it too. I would stress that immunity is not about the investor, that is to say Mr Karathanasse. The investor has nothing to do with this article. It concerns the current Board of Directors of the Greek Sugar Industry, as defined by the previous government. Please, I need a clear answer to this from SYRIZA. Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry it's a little over time, but all the answers had to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u241	I will explain it because I have indeed seen protests from all sides. Firstly, the Minister obviously had the tolerance of the Bureau. I have not reacted either to the parliamentary representatives who have taken enough time, because the parliamentary representatives have all expressed their party, and indeed - so says the Rules - represent their President, who is the alpha and the omega for each party. So is the Minister. I'm watching. I am not static, I am dynamic on the Chair and I am watching and I have measured that the most speaking time of the Minister has been consumed in the answers given to the questions that have mainly been asked by fellow Members and parliamentary representatives. Not to say names called 'Mr Minister, then answer me'. The Minister can't answer. So the Bureau respects and shows greater tolerance than should both the ministers and the parliamentary representatives. Right now, before I give the floor to Mr Boukokoro for a small intervention, I will give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Janakopoulos, on personal grounds. He's ahead of the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u243	Mr Arseni, do you want the floor on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u244	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u245	I'll give you after the speech. Mr. Janakopoulos, explain to us what the staff is for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u246	Being a strategic debate with Mr Georgiadis is absolutely impossible and this is a common place for all of Parliament's wings. It does not feel comfortable in the universe of concepts and, precisely because it does not feel comfortable in the universe of concepts, it always attempts to lower the level of discussion in the field of intelligence that its audience understands. In this sense, I think that this is still the case. In relation to the threats, because the Minister who overvaded Lucentis, to us, to SYRIZA, put his signature on a drug price report that extorted Lucentis, and if the offence of infidelity had not been dropped, he would have been convicted of a felony, came here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u247	You haven't changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u248	Don't interrupt. It has to be heard. Every point of view will be without a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u249	He has said so himself, he has confessed. Infidelity has been omitted. So the man who would have been convicted of a felony had not given up the crime he committed and confessed to television, came here to threaten us. Look, when Mr. Georgiadis loses his temper, he is also a common place in all the wings of Parliament that he becomes fun. So I can only face his threats as exactly what he is, as a comedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u250	Here you go, Minister, but do not open up the debate, because there are many people waiting and the Chamber cannot last long.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u251	First of all, as far as Lucentis is concerned, plenary was present when Mr Paulakis admitted that for four and a half years Lucentis was in exactly the same way in respect of my ministerial decision. Price in Lucentis with the new ministerial decision I did not have time to make, as the ministerial decision was adopted in June 2013 and a few days later I left the Ministry. A price with the new ministerial decision came out in November 2014 from the next Minister. However, in the same way Paulakis made out for four and a half years. And Polakis' infidelity has not been filed, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u252	You'd be inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u253	"Inside you'd be" you tell me to hear it. Listen, indeed, to the night you went to the Arena Ice to set up with the other "NOVARTIS" makers, you obviously thought - now that you're laughing - that you're also a judge and you're making a decision and you're condemning me. You've had time to tell the House, not just that I'm guilty of infidelity, but that I'd go to jail. "Janakopoulos Chief Judge"! That's the episode we're listening to today. But I'm leaving it, and I'm actually going. I blame you, Mr Janakopoulou, not least for racism. I don't understand. What do my voters have, and they are inferior to others, and they like smart guys? You said: "It is addressed to your own voters, who like smart people."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u254	Why don't you do me an interrogation? Where are the signatures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u255	Are you a racist, sir? Separate people to who are the most skilled and who are less qualified?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u256	They're top right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u257	Are you a Racist, Janakopoulou? We understood you, Mr. Janakopoulos, who you really are. So I do not stand out for the voters. I respect all voters. And those who vote for me, who thankfully for my political career, are many tens of thousands in every election campaign, seventy thousand in the latter, but also those who vote for you. Apparently they're making a mistake, but in life, the mistake is allowed. The substance, however, remains. The search for the "NOVARTIS" design from Greek justice now begins and a Mr.Janakopoulos had gone the night before the file came to the House to some Mr. Dimitrios. The rest will be shown by the interrogation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u259	Mr Arsenis, explain to a minute what the staff is, or on general political issues you will be speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Staff lies with Mr Georgiadis and with the references to the understanding of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I really want to ask myself. Mr Georgiadis, who is constantly violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure, who in committee can give the floor to Members, who will be speaking here after every speaker, who will take the floor instead of eighteen minutes, who has brought here to every bill, a photographic amendment that is late - and indeed in irrelevant bills - always, firmly, in every bill relating to the Greek law and making illegal law, is asking us to speak to me and to the Mera25 because we are using a little time, because we respect citizens? Mr. Georgiades, our world is dominated by the notion of respect for life and other people. Your world is dominated by the concept of serving the interests of the few at the expense of the many. That's our picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u261	Here, Minister, you have the floor, but do not continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u262	I'll say one last thing. The other things we talked about in the morning. Listen, Mr Arseni. We went to the elections and said we wanted to speed up the Greek. You went down to the election saying you don't want the Greek to happen. Which one of us has received more votes I think we know. If anyone does not respect in the Chamber what the majority wants, namely the many, are obviously you, while you know that the great majority of Greek people now - and SYRIZA did so as a government - the two largest parties in Greece and the PASOK that he had initiated, that is to say, a percentage of the electorate over 80% want to end the investment in the Greek. You personally have gone with appeals to the Council of State, to stop by fingernails and teeth the investment. So who serves the interests of many in the Chamber is well aware of it, because we have been measured in the elections. We're many and you're a few. So don't teach us any lessons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u263	In order for there to be no misunderstanding, I now give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukkoro. He has asked for the floor for his position as a Parliamentary representative as a whole, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u265	You, Mr. Villardo, are you asking for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u266	My colleague's away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u267	Personnel only may be given. My colleague said what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u268	Our parliamentary representative is currently missing. Mr. Georgiadis said something, I just wanted to give a very small answer of one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u269	You can't take the floor. You can't. I'm sorry. You are not a parliamentary representative. You're rapporteur. Then, as rapporteur, you will say for a minute what you want. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I will not take advantage of all the time, although under the Rules of Procedure I am entitled to nine more minutes. However, I would like to point out a few things, because the cynicity with which the make news is adopted and the lies are disguised in the Chamber is surprising. And of course, the fact that they are called by Qualified Opposition is - if you like - a fact that should not give rise to impression. If others with the same cynicity tried to twist the image in this Chamber, perhaps it would be believed. Because it is a recent governmental life of the Anti-Population Officer, it is probably not necessary to answer everything that is being adopted and reproduced in this way. I say this, Mr President, because he tried to show himself that the Prime Minister went to the summit, remained unreserved, took what he was given and returned to Greece. An attempt was made to show that the country's Prime Minister met only with Mr Anastasiades. As if we did not see his meeting on the margin with Mr McCrone, as if we did not see his meeting at the tripartite with the top leaders of the European Union, as if we did not see his meeting and his negotiation with the five leaders of southern Europe, who were in the eight who provoked the subject of the summit and pressed for brave decisions, as if all were done with an automatic pilot of EUR 32 billion, plus the EUR 40 billion of the Community Support Framework, were coming with an automatic pilot. And the new agricultural aid comes with an automatic pilot, as if we were not discussing the three years in SYRIZA that, due to the departure of Great Britain and the request from the Eastern countries for first-speed aid, there is a serious risk that the CAP and the single aid to farmers will be reduced from 2.1 billion euros to 1.7 billion euros. It's like everything was done on an automatic pilot. As only Mr Tsipras can negotiate at the summits and pass his positions. This is an absolute distortion of reality, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm sorry to say it, but while you're pretending to be serious Opposition and you're claiming that you're particularly involved in the difficult situations in creating struggling internal fronts, you want to hide and joy doesn't leave you. On the one hand, what did you do to Evros? You made an incredible take news play that we gave national territory. Because the level of Evros had fallen, you have made an incredible production, with communication channels waiting for you, political officials reproducing and showing to a Turkish militia and saying that we have granted fourteen acres of national territory! As if you took the alley and counted it! What happened next with the coronary? It was not a while ago, and while at the beginning you made the need to be friendly and agreed to the treatment of the pandemic, the attacks on architects in the implementation of the project began, and I say about Mr Chardalia and Mr Tsiodra. It was daily your attacks on the people who carried out a project that was one of the most successful ones in the world. And what do you then do? While you say that you will contribute, you come to incriminate the government for the financial footprint of the pandemic. All you didn't tell us is that we built the virus in Maximus' basement! And while you say that you put your back, joy still doesn't leave you. Wait for a disaster from the pandemic's financial footprint to be credited to the government, but it does not come, because the agreement is being held at the summit, because the government still has munitions, because the government has to announce fifty-nine relief measures. So what are you doing? In the titanic effort we've made to Evros, you expect it to go wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u271	Finish it, Mr. Buquoir. That's not an intervention. Will you be placed on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I would just like to remind you that I am making use of my time as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u273	You said about a little intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u274	So, I keep going. How do you do, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? Wait on the big issues when the government turns out to be on our shift. But we are not the barbers of governance. We're 24/7! Others are shifts and said: “What can you do? A lightning on the shift was." That's not how we deal with it. So wait till he turns to Evros. Wait till he goes to the coronary. Wait to turn on the financial issues of the coronary. Wait until the work in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean and in the news. But joy won't leave you. Check your locations. Look at your statements. Yes, I do. A government working with a system and a plan may face difficulties that were unprecedented for 2020, but it does not talk about strife. She's doing her duty. She is not depriving herself of her responsibilities, saying 'do not happen to me'. No Minister said so, and mostly the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not say that. That is why it would be better if you really want to convince yourself that you are being transformed into a serious opposition, in the big and crucial to contribute with honesty, yes, with criticism and suggestions, not to adopt any irresponsible information, as I heard from some executives last night, ahead of the weekend, to adopt the tweet of the Turkish embassy in Washington that the seismography is coming out. That's what you do all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u275	Who did this? Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u276	Your friends, however, did it, not our friends. I mean, if you really want to convince me that you are acting constructively in the role of Officerial Vice-President, a role that the Greek people have taken to you and is not a little, believe me, you must convince me and not every opportunity to adopt what is causing cracks on the inside, especially under such circumstances, ladies and gentlemen. For the bill, of course, Members have said so, and the Minister said so. Are you seriously claiming that you have made more pro-investment and more development policy in the past four and a half years? Are you seriously claiming this? I will not tell you what the assessments of international organisations and the European Union have been about growth rates before you take over power. That was some appreciation. I will recall what you wrote every year in the annual budget, namely what the rate of growth will be next year. And tell me one year when you verified your own assessments, one of the four and a half years that you ruled. Not even one! Even in 50% of your estimates you did not move! One year from the four years and six months that you ruled! No year at all! And you come today to tell the government here, which has to deal with the uprising of the operating staff, who faced the crisis in Evros, who faced the unprecedented coronary pandemic, whether the recession is 7% and 8%. As if the overall plan, the improvement of the country's image, the increase in the country's position in all the world's reliable measurement indicators for performance, and especially for the prospects of the Greek economy, are not more important. Does not it motivate you that, although there is an unprecedented global crisis due to the coronary, are there any estimates of a deep recession throughout the European Union, interest rates on the country, whenever it comes out on the markets, staying in a historically low state? It's none of your business? Doesn't that bother you? Do you think the markets would become merciful and want to lose money for Greece's benefit? It's none of your business? Isn't that a trust marker? Isn't that a credibility indicator? If you want to listen, not to the parliamentary representative, but to a mere congressman, in fact, because the role of the Officerial Vice-President is serious in a democratic parliament, rather than pretending to be serious, rather than pretending to have understood your mistakes because of which the Greek people have told you in the new position that has taken you, it would be nice to see more seriously your role and indeed to put up with documents and stop being content with the easy impressions. While blaming the Greek Government for media sovereignty and political impressions, you were the first to adopt the most impressive and at the same time false. I mentioned five - six examples of top issues. There are dozens more for the younger ones. I would therefore say, Mr President, that today' s debate in the context of the debate on this draft law of the Ministry of Development has shown one single deficit: the deficit in Officerial Representation has been lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, too. It is simply because some Members who have now entered have misunderstood, to say that Mr Bukouros, while calling for small intervention, has made his position and we thank him, in fact, for giving him time that does not exist. I will tell you why there is no request, and I am making a very warm request, if we can from now on, to help the process so that we can finish earlier, because there are fifteen topical questions and this parliamentary term - all of you are witnesses - who are answering all of them and we will go at midnight. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the bill, I would like to refer a little to the current situation. The days that we are certainly going through are crucial to everyone. In fact, tension in the Aegean is escalating, with our clear message to Turkey, with our responsible attitude and the intervention of the European Union, as well as France's responsible attitude. In fact, I cannot help talking about the clear position of the French, President McCronn, as far as international law is concerned and that the borders of Greece are Europe's borders. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, long-term friendship with the French in the spirit of equality, equality and the fundamental values of democracy, because that is the truth and it should be said. However, ladies and gentlemen, Turkish aggression and provocation remain. And that is why, I would say, these days it is not good to have particular tensions, crowns and political controversies that do not honor anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also stress that we must not be reassured. We hear from Turkey's President Erdogan in every way that he disregards international rules, that he despises the law of the sea, that he despises international law, and I would say, with the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque, he has caused not only Greeks and Hellenism, but also the global cultural community. He did not respect and desecrate a monument of global cultural heritage and of course the symbol of Orthodoxy. It is constantly opening up issues that have been closed for hundreds of years and specifically have been closed with the Treaty of Lausanne. It challenges sovereign rights and works humanitarian issues, undermining not only relations between Greece and Turkey, but also relations between Turkey and the European Union. The policy of rhetoric affects security and stability in the wider Mediterranean region. It proclaims yourself in sultan, insisting on the restoration of Cemalism, as well as of course the secular state, leading Turkey to becoming the Mecca of Islam, with what this naturally means. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for national planning - and here we must insist - with a national strategy which is to be served by everyone. I would stress here that the fourth meetings of the Prime Minister with the political leaders are purely information and not, of course, institutional. Opposition and Co-population must fulfil their full institutional role and, of course, send out a strong signal, a message of national unity through the convening of the Council of Political Heads, namely, finally set a national red line. We do not claim anything, we do not grant anything, we do not, of course, grant our sovereign rights and a message to the other side: that if it spreads a finger, it will lose the hand. Ladies and gentlemen, as Greeks we must unite to stand up. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to another matter of the day, the development of the pandemic in the country. The cases are stable and upwards daily and scientists have started to hit the alarm again. During the lockdown the pandemic updates were daily on the channels and of course the multiple update. In fact, I would like to agree with many of my fellow Members that the information must be made on a daily basis. Besides, providing daily information and a constant reminder of prevention, it is a basic means of dealing with the coronary, so that every citizen can see the visible danger of the pandemic and thus ensure public health, of course protecting the economy and of course, so that the situation is not derailed, not to prevent the design and all these great sacrifices of the Greek people are lost. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this bill. Our rapporteur, Mr Michalis Katrinis, has been thoroughly documented in detail in his bill and articles. Of course, we all agree, without revolts, that illegal trade is a major economic and social problem, of course by downgrading the quality of products, by decommissioning the products themselves and by destroying them, and by destroying them, intellectual rights and at the same time harming consumers and businesses. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, it affects small and medium-sized enterprises which are the backbone of our economy. We must therefore all make it clear that the paramilitary trade is a scourge of our times in the economy and entrepreneurship. It is not just an activity that starts and ends by violating trade tax legislation. It is a modern phenomenon that is directly linked to the problem of the non-economic problem, especially as it begins where the great opportunities of illegal profits are presented. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, in today's era of globalisation and digital capabilities, these opportunities are too many. We know that there are websites of illegal and electronic markets, which are handling counterfeit products, which, in other words, benefit not only from sales but also advertising. So we must respond and be clear that there are ways and means to track them. In fact, it is estimated that only from VAT and other tax foregone, losses amount to about 3.5 to 4 billion a year, while at the same time, at the same time, the country loses around 15-20 billion and about twenty-five thousand jobs. And I say it is appreciated, because no competent authority can capture the level of the trade in Greece today. In this context, the setting-up of an inter-service market control unit could potentially be on a proper footing, since, of course, this step had arisen through systematic cooperation, with the relevant bodies, in order to identify problems and to provide solutions and responses so that they could also be proposed. Minister, the Change Movement believes that it needed more consultation and more dialogue, both with producer organisations and trade unions. This is because, today, legislation exists, controls are carried out, products are seized, fines are imposed. And here, I ask, are these fines paid? We don't have a picture. In fact, the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government should respond to that. At the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, the paramilitary trade is gigantic. That's why he needs some hard self-criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, if today we were to discuss a legislative framework exclusively for the illegal trade, for the strategic treatment of this scourge that is afflicting the organised commercial business, we were to all agree. We are still seeing a bill that comes as a broom and, by the way, recommends a new instrument, with responsibility for dealing with the illegal trade. However, this does not create the preconditions for a comprehensive and brave response to the problem, namely the problem that undermines legal entrepreneurship and the purely functioning of the market. Let us not forget that, at the same time as the paramilitary trade and with a core, there is also development of other forms of infraction, such as drug trafficking, masturbation, burglarisation, robbery and other criminal deeds. However, I repeat that this phenomenon is complex and requires complex solutions and not just a new body that brings together the institutional memory of some directorates or agencies of the Ministry. In other words, here you say, Minister, that you are bringing arrangements to end the paramilitary trade which is the opinion of the many. If you ask the citizens, they will tell you "Find out with the smuggling". When? Yesterday! Not today. You really don't get into the intestines of the problem. With this data, the new OLAF service will not have the expected results. Of course, when it does not have a clear target and delimitation of the negative responsibilities, when the responsibilities of individual services and auditors are not clear, when the procedure for attesting infringements and imposing penalties is not specified. In fact, here, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are neither ten members of the Security Council nor ten directly subordinated bodies from the Minister who refers to the well-known logic of the secondments. The conclusions here are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, dealing with the market requires a properly coordinated strategy involving scientists with knowledge of the specificities of the trade and, of course, of the sub-sectors and of the appropriately trained personnel to contribute to the strategy to combat the trade. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for a campaign for the education of consumers and citizens in order, that is to say, to give citizens tax awareness and consistency and to consolidate, in other words, the collective consciousness of our society. How practical is this violation of marginality both for the market and for the society as a whole? However, with this bill, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the government, I would say, in advance and by the way, wants to support the organised commercial operation and the small medium-sized enterprise that has been through, I would say, a tough 10-year crisis and is experiencing the effects of pandemic today. It is obvious that they needed and needed a more vertical and thorough solution from the government's point of view. I would remind you that the government has excluded the retail trade from the extension of the rent reduction. TEMPUS II has exhausted the funds and all the small and medium-sized enterprises in the retail trade, I would say they are outside. I would remind you that the Guarantee Fund is strict about the conditions governing the granting of new loans which, in the vast majority of them, serve large businesses and, in no case, Mr Minister, small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized ones, who have once again remained in their luck. This is because high safeguards and safeguards are required, so that all small businesses are left out of funding. I come to another serious issue concerning the checks. You have granted seventy-five days of suspension of registration to TIERIA since 1 July 2020. Indeed, it is only about the demands of tourism, that is, the hotels, the tourist agencies and agencies and, of course, the seasonal shops. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the companies in the tertiary sector, which are regarded as seasonal, including commercial, have been excluded - this has to be regulated, Mr Minister, see this - and also the companies of the other sectors which have been deeply affected by this pandemic. All these operations were left to their luck. In other words, there is no provision for their checks from 1 June onwards. Here, Minister, it must be made clear that, since businesses have been shut down or put out of service by order of the State on a three-month compulsory holiday because of the coronary, it is impossible to ask them to meet their obligations as if nothing had happened. Healthy enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, will be registered as 'TEERIA'. It's the state's duty to find a way to support them. Also, Minister, micro-loans up to EUR 25 000 seem to be coming after December. Why? So how will business in this environment stand to operate, to pay rent, to pay suppliers and workers? We have waited, Minister, for this bill to be more targeted to support the organised trading company and more geared towards the decisive treatment of the market. That is why we cannot, of course, consent to the deterioration of the market-driven phenomenon, nor to the depreciation of legitimate small and medium-sized enterprises. For all the above, then, we do not agree with this draft law and cannot naturally vote for it, despite the fact that we agree with several articles and provisions, articles and provisions that we shall be voting on, such as the New Intelligence Register, such as the electronic establishment of the IKE through the 'Stage Service', such as incentives for spending on research and development, such as the provisions for extending the deadlines for the technical reconstruction of the shipyards, and other provisions to which we have referred in detail and in detail in committees. We call on you, Mr President-in-Office, to bear in mind our remarks, points and proposals which have been detailed, thoroughly and documented by our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, and to do so. After all, opposition does not mean a sterile 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. As colleagues and ministers refer to parliamentary scrutiny, I would like to inform you that parliamentary control will be initiated at least after an hour. It cannot be done earlier because there is still the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besiropoulos, who will be placed on tax articles mentioned in the bill, and I am giving the floor immediately. I would ask the remaining colleagues - and particularly the New Democracy - if they can be limited because they are five from New Democracy and only Mrs Perka from SYRIZA. Please limit your locations from now. Minister, you have the floor. I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Development's bill is another link in the chain of government's legislative initiatives aimed at giving impetus to the Greek economy. The tax bill to be voted on Wednesday is also in the same direction. He's got a clear development target. In the past few years, tax policy has had an extreme collectivity. We believe that tax policy must have a development dimension and we do so. Even at the present difficult times, the creation of a financial area is being used to reduce taxes. It is assumed that the effects of the pandemic have affected the economy. They worked implicatedly against the growth potential developed by the Greek economy. This dynamic we want to show again, strengthen it even more through bold legislative interventions that make Greece a friendly country for investment. Undoubtedly, the provision of the bill we are debating today on the creation of a 'Stage Service' for strategic investments that will interfere with the simplification of licensing procedures create an attractive framework for the development of investment initiatives. The same is true of simplifying the establishment of private capital companies which can now be electronically. In the direction of a more rapid and efficient utilization of public property, local authorities, legal persons, public or private law, investment is possible regardless of the property regime. A new regulatory framework is being set up for the tender procedure for public real estate, where strategic investments can be made. The government is determined to respond decisively to the bureaucratic clashes and established attitudes that kept the country in yesterday's. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor in particular to refer to four articles of the bill which fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. I am referring to Articles 46, 48, 49 and 53. Article 46 is very important. It reflects the government's perception and view of the future. The tax incentives for companies to carry out expenditure relating to the research activity shall be strengthened. These costs are now going to reduce the company's gross revenues by 100%, which is currently around 30%. Our aim is to strengthen research activity which is a necessary treaty to enhance competitiveness and growth at the same time. Article 48 relates to the creation of the Interservice Market Control Unit. In accordance with the provisions of the draft law, this new unit will be able to obtain information from the tax authority with safeguards for information and confidentiality. Article 49 contains provisions aimed at strengthening newcomers. Everyone knows that the start of a newly-born business is a difficult stage. The Government seeks to facilitate the creation of these enterprises by providing tax incentives to natural persons putting capital into newly-born enterprises. A taxpayer who contributes capital to a newly incorporated company registered in the National Register of Intelligence of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology of the Ministry of Development and Investment will deduct 50% of this amount from his taxable income. The deduction shall be made in proportion to an income category and for the tax year in which the contribution was made. And, of course, insurance records are available for those who are trying to exploit this provision, as the contribution will be made through deposited into a bank account. Finally, another provision reflecting the Government's intention to strengthen the research activity is Article 53 of the draft law. In particular, there is provision for exemption from any tax, booking or insurance contribution from the scholarships granted by the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation. Basically, we restore the concept of isology, since this exemption also applies to grants granted by the specific research funds of the IHS. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that the legislative interventions and initiatives of the government do not stop here. In addition to the institutional interventions aimed at strengthening the development process, there are interventions aimed at the immediate strengthening and relief of affected sectors and groups. No one remains helpless at this difficult juncture. We are shaping the conditions for the country to return to dynamic growth in 2021. Our expectations are not a wish but are based on realistic facts. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has not accidentally won the acceptance and trust of the majority of the Greek people, he proved in practice that he has a plan and a determination. We have a strong and inmediate relationship with the vast majority of citizens who are the most valuable capital in the national effort to recover the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u281	And we thank the Minister, because he was specific in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u283	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Well, it's just Fake News everything that's been heard about Stelios Zavvos, Alexander Samaras and Mirandas Xafa. What's the reality? There is a Swiss fund called 'BREVAN HOWARD'. Inside this Swiss fund there's a Greek, I don't know if I have to say his name, it's not hidden, Natsi is called the permanent resident of Switzerland. This BREVAN HOWARD fund purchased a piece of Ms Marianna Latsis' shares. It seems that two other foreign fund funds have already been put in place, which have also purchased those shares from Mrs Latsis, I do not know whether they have already been sold or not. Now this Greek, who is co-founder and co-owner of the Swiss fund "BREVAN HOWARD", has put money himself into a Greek fund called "ORILINA". In this fund, the "ORILINA" on the board is Mr. Stelios Zavvos, Mr. Alexander Samaras, Mrs. Miranda Xafas. 'ORILINA' has not purchased Ms. Latsi's shares. One of the investors of the ‘ORILINA’, who has a separate fund in Switzerland, with the fund in Switzerland, has purchased part of Ms. Latsis’s shares. He has placed part of his money in a Greek fund, involving Mr Stelios Zavvos, Mrs Miranda Xafa, Mr Alexandros Samaras as members of the board of directors. I stress that too. I know we're not all financial experts here, but at least Mr. Janakopoulos understands. He is, obviously, in capitalism another thing member of the board of directors and another thing that owns the fund. I'm saying that there's no misunderstanding. So, Fake News, no relationship between Mr. Stelios Zavvos, Mr. Alexander Samaras and Mrs. Miranda Xafa with Mrs. Marianna Latsis's shares in Greek, so that no misunderstandings arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u285	Mr Ploris has the floor and I would ask him to give an example. I'll take six minutes to get an alert, and at least don't exceed seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I am pleased that, after three hours of speaking, a Member is speaking to Parliament again, because so far, they have only been ministers and parliamentary representatives for the three-hour period before. So I think it should also be your rigour - not you, I am referring to the Bureau as the Bureau - in the times of those who speak out of list. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important bill, and especially for those who are in the centre of Athens and who are in the 1st district of Athens, we understand that the trade is one of the main problems that concerns us and concerns entrepreneurs. I was amazed to hear the Left, especially Mera25 and the Communist Party of Greece indirectly but clearly say that by the end of the trade we are trying to help the big companies. But can these colleagues not see how the economy works? Obviously a large business and a brand that costs too much is not at stake by anyone on the road. The one who is on the street basically hurts the person who has a shop, sells at normal low prices and comes to sell even cheaper. Just to say, one who's going to get a 500-euro bag won't go get one or 15 euros he'll see down on the street. But one who's getting a bag of 20 and 25 euros can go and shop from the parade trade. What happens now because we're in the real world? In the real world, then, we have had the example of SYRIZA's governance, and now we have the example of the governance of the New Democracy and they have brought you the elements that are disgusting, because basically either from incompetence or from an ideological approach not to bother them, you have had three thousand checks in one year when the leadership, Adonis Georgiadis, the Minister responsible, Mr Papathanases and the Secretary-General responsible for making a very big fight, and Mr Stabulides are coming and bringing you twenty thousand checks with 589% over control and 789% more in the sums he has charged and collected the state. And because it has been said whether or not and should not be too strict a framework to inform you that, as you see in this bill for the first time, it is possible to confiscate the vehicle that transports counterfeit products, because the purpose is to have a comprehensive intervention that hits the parade. So since the Ministry with its leadership came in and brought about results, because obviously having done ten times more checks than the previous ones did is a result, it saw the problems that have been created and come with a comprehensive bill and with the help of unifications of procedures and agencies to create the particular body that can be much more effective in the immediate fight against the paramilitary. And the difference already, which we are moving in the city of Athens, is also seen in the fight against the paramilitary trade and in the fact that the framework of the asylum has changed and the police have been given the opportunity to find themselves. SYRIZA had made ASE an entire paradox, which operated with the blessing of SYRIZA, because the police could not get in, the man who sold and had his paw in front of the bars of ASE and we were talking about asylum. So, on the one hand, with all this change in the framework, so that there are no illegal enclaves and on the other hand with much more careful controls throughout the whole framework and with the most results, we have managed to create a better framework, and now with this new legislative framework, we hope that we can be one of the countries that has the best possible results in the fight against the coastal trade, which helps the trader, especially the trader in Athens, who is working under very difficult conditions. And to this Athenian citizen and trader, we have changed the framework with the marches so that entrepreneurship and especially the entrepreneurship that has to do with the retail trade can be stimulated. At the same time, in this context, the Minister accepts an amendment which I have proposed and which has to do with the change in the definition of managers in the Greek Development Bank and the Greek Development Bank. Indeed, public officials and civil servants must be able to take up positions on the same terms and qualifications as those banks. It is a level playing field, because when you have good staff, which you can use from the public sector as well and which is qualified, you must give them the opportunities. Mr President, I have been brief in time and with these considerations we are voting for the bill and I thank the Minister who accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u287	I, too, thank Mr Plovés and the fact that he has set an example by accepting the comments to the Bureau at the same time. I give the floor immediately to Mr Chrysomalis, Member of the New Democracy, requesting him to be sooner than Mr Ploir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'political idealism is not a poetic idea, on the contrary, it is a realistic wisdom of everyday life', to invoke nobelist Mahfuz as well. It must be pragmatic and shaped in the light of the needs it is required to meet. This is what the Ministry of Development's political leadership is doing with today's bill, introducing a series of provisions aimed at improving the functioning of the market, improving the country's investment climate, image and attractiveness to investors. You all know that investment is absolutely necessary for the country and must be our first concern, our first priority. I do not understand where SYRIZA disagrees in the debate. He said that we did not have time to vote on them. Of course they had just 5% ready. But why don't they vote for them? Some people say that it is essentially a technical or processive draft law. For me this initiative by the Ministry of Development, which we are discussing today, I think it is at the core of the development policy which the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis advocates within the framework of the liberal economy. It is a draft law far from market intervention and the free economy, offering solutions and tools, aimed at attracting and strengthening investment, improving the business climate and, above all, highlighting the role of the state as a creator of equal opportunities and at the same time controlling economic efforts. All these goals of the Ministry and the previous bills are not accidental that within one year they have brought tangible results. An increase of nine posts for our country in the international competitiveness table, the best position in the last decade. And just the day before that, six seats in the world direct foreign investment index, in the 20th place for 2019, which is the best place for our country for eleven years. It is not by chance that this progress is not a short-term one in this difficult international environment. It's a result of hard work and commitment to a goal. We are working hard for the good of our country to get investment and investors. This logic also applies to the establishment of the Interservice Market Control Unit. It comes to create an organization - an umbrella - which will take over to combat the scourge of the merchant trade. It gives new instruments and tools to the audit mechanism, supports more fully the project and offers the possibility of more, more accurate and more successful audits. The truth is, I see that SYRIZA doesn't want to fight the parade. SYRIZA likes the parade trade. Why? I think for the same reasons he likes it, he likes it, he likes it. We've all understood that. But know that for everything, we'll upset you in legality! And so for the parade trade. The Minister told you, too, 600% more controls over the last year, 1200% increased fines and we continue to do so later. Other provisions of today's draft also include practical arrangements that will improve the daily life of free professionals and micro-enterprises are incentives for strategic investment, extension by the end of 2021 of the investment projects that were subject to development laws, and the integration of voluntary establishments into the development law aid schemes. All of these offer substantial potential for growth, with a positive mark for the economy and work. Equally important is the strategy of smart specialisation for our industry in the context of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2021-2027, which will lead to the strengthening of innovation and specialisation, which is so necessary for industrial production in the new digital environment. We must make a special reference to the extension of a time limit for the completion of the technical reconstruction work, as well as to the related amendment of the continuation of payments to Elefsina shipyards for the delivery of firefighting. It is crucial for our national interests to regenerate our shipyards and we all understand it, especially these days. Finally, the regulations on research and innovation come to really give incentives for the reversal of Brain Drain in our country. The 100% deduction of the costs of scientific and technological research from 30% currently in force, the creation of the National Register of New Intelligences, the start-ups as we like to say and they are said, the provision of tax and investment incentives to them, even the exemption from booking insurance contributions from the scholarships of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, are a very powerful starting point to see positive developments in innovation from Greek minds. Here we need to take advantage of the efforts of the State Secretary and encourage him to continue to encourage this sector, hoping that very soon, Mr Secretary, we will hear about the results of the innovative research carried out by Greek scientists not from a distant country, but from here, from our place. After four and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, our country has finally had a political leadership with a plan, force and determination to claim what the country and the Greek people deserve. With determination that does not bend in front of threats and co-commercialness, with concrete and coordinated steps face every threat and shapes the future of the place in the best possible way. In these difficult times it is for the benefit of the country above all - and think about this - to put aside the gap in your opposition content and objectively support the good efforts of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, such as today's suggestion of the Ministry of Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Golden. I call on Mr Christoforos Boutsikaki from the New Democracy to step in. It would be a omission to me, Minister, if, in an effort on what you said about Elefsinas shipyards, I do not thank and praise your day-to-day partner in this case, the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis. Here you go, Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting an end to the illegal trade. Today we are recommending the Market Control Unit, the EMEA. This new structure is stopping confusion in the interpretation and application of the law. We are speeding up and improving controls, creating a strong and effective control mechanism for intensifying and coordinating market controls, combating illicit trade in goods, products and services, ensuring consumer rights, protecting trademarks and intellectual property, supporting entrepreneurship and increasing public revenue, as well as strengthening national security by combating illegal circuits. This initiative by the Ministry of Development and Investment is extremely important. Coping with illegal trade directly affects all social and economic groups. It is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the market, since the new plant will investigate and monitor all stages of the movement, marketing and marketing of products and services, from production to the end, from compliance with legislation in the course of commercial activity until the effects of consumer mislead are combated. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest report of the European Union Intellectual Property Office, the loss of income for Member States from taxation and tax evasion amounts to EUR 15 billion annually. In Greece alone, the value of the loss of sales amounts to EUR 320 million, 85 million more than the previous estimate. At the same time, it is estimated that more than twenty-five thousand jobs are being lost in our country. In the last year, the Government of New Democracy quadrupled the checks, spread the products confiscated and detected. But much more needs to be done. We need this new structure, which immediately starts its operation, a structure that will have the appropriate regulatory framework and all the necessary equipment to produce results. It will work closely with the AIA, with the National Transparency Authority, even with the National Information Service, as well as with all relevant services of the European Union. In addition, it will be able to cooperate with all international organisations as well as with all public and private bodies. We have heard from the committee again this well-known 'we had it ready and did not have time to do so'. Four and a half years, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, nothing has happened beforehand. Perhaps, I say, perhaps, if you weren't dealing with what they see the light of publicity lately, you could have been able to do something about this country. The bill we are debating today is a powerful development tool. It is not just the fight against the market, which we have all spoken about, it strengthens work, research and innovation as a whole. I'm going to stand in particular at the National Intelligence Register. This will include start-ups after evaluation and will have a reduction in taxes depending on the contribution to the respective undertaking. So we are actually motivating the development of the entrepreneurship of the future. So young people will be able to stay and create here, so they will be able to return and those who were forced to leave in the years of the crisis. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, Brain Drain was one of the most important and most serious consequences of the economic crisis. Over the past decade nearly half a million Greeks left our country, mostly young scientists and professionals with increased qualifications. To these people, I'd like to graduate. Now that we finally have a credible government, now that we all together, society and state, are building a new normality, now that the economy is developing, despite the pandemic, with the money we have drawn and secured from the Recovery Fund, we are ready to transform the country. Now those who have had to leave our country, from your homeland, have the choice to turn around and create a new Greece together. Together we will build the Greece of tomorrow, yours tomorrow and your children's tomorrow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Butsikaki. I now give Mrs Perka the floor from SYRIZA, which is the only one of the last six speakers who have been mentioned several times in her name, positive in my view, by the Minister. So you have the floor. Make sure to be as short as possible. Because it's a good thing the Minister talked about. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. In advance, I ask for a small tolerance, precisely because there have been many references. I begin by saying that I did not expect to hear any of the things that were heard in the Chamber about a governance party from a party that pulled the country out of the memoranda, in which you put it, that corruption was a method of governance, which we are talking about low interest rates, while the debt had not even been settled. A little more serious and more respectful! Also, it is a disgrace to say that we are seeking the country's destruction to be confirmed. You're wrong. We are from our youth years on the road, defending social struggles for this country, without any governance in mind. So I'm going to the Greek because it's very characteristic and I'm just going to talk about it. I guess I don't have time to say more about the bill, but it doesn't matter, because it's very typical. How can investment be done, how do you understand the investment in this country? I say: in a blurred landscape, without tools, with a dependence of investors on each government, to make the transaction in question. And why am I saying that? Firstly, Mr Mitsotakis said that in a week - rightly - he will unlock the Greek. In addition to the question 'where was it blocked?', which I will then answer, is it possible that the future Prime Minister of the country does not know the requirements of legislation and administration? It was a merciless thing to do. I will begin by very briefly explaining history from the beginning. In 2001, he cleared the plot, left the airport. Do you know when the competition happened? In 2011. Until then, the space was deceived. And you know when the contract was signed? In 2014, on the eve of the elections won by SYRIZA, at the foot, why this concession contract, Minister, had to improve it very much, and it was in the interests of the Greek State that we increased the metropolitan park for public spaces, that we made sure that we granted priority to the creation of the park - first the park will become the park and then all - an open park to the neighbouring municipalities and to the sea and not as planned in the approved master plan of 2014 as an internal courtyard of a enclosed concrete space, without access. By means of an amending contract, therefore, a large green space is formed, which will be shared and open, the park is easily accessible, unobstructed, the use of the seaside and the seaside, because the free front of the coastal zone is given, one third is inconsistent, without commercial and recreational uses, we therefore have an increase of green, open green space to the sea, a connection to fixed tracks, bicycle roads and pedestrian roads, a reduction in construction. Also 1.5 million more investments in infrastructure projects, which were not planned, and ahead. In the first five years, 67% of this amount must have been implemented. Negotiations were made so that a number of critical bodies could stay and be settled within the plot, such as the LEADs, the FIR, the EMI, the St. Kosmas Sports Center. And all this in the public interest and interest of the local residents. But the Minister said, and of course I fully agree: inadmissible heresy is judicial maturation. Unacceptable. Yes, Minister, but your government signed it. Because the original contract was this probative cult, along with the rest of the ten. The non-modification of postures was a prerequisite for the Greek Government's action in the framework of the agreement with the institutions. We could not change the reversing heresy, many of which were unacceptable, such as this. But let's see, we made them from the eleven stirring sects: Settlement of the contract by the Greek Parliament in September 2016. I'll put it down at the end. Adoption of the comprehensive development plan by a Presidential Decree, which had previously been drawn up and approved by the Council of State. Entry into force of a legislative act setting up the management body of the metropolitan pole. Here we have the establishment, recommendation, the rules of procedure. Adopted by the Court of Justice, previous decisions. Delivering the property free from possession of third parties at 95%. There were sixty-nine bodies that had to be gone since 2012. We got them at 95%. The introduction by the Greek general public of a legislative framework for the granting of casino operating licences. Now listen. We're saying there's a casino contest left. It is not a simple thing to make a competition that is a global originality because of the original contract and should be included in the tender that makes the investor's public and commercial policy that, if not accepted, the contest can be blown up in the air. We did the contest and we did it well. Here's the teaser, as it seems here's the competition notice. The park's KHS was issued, which we said was the first thing to do - this is the Park's GHS - and of course the remaining GHS had already been processed and had come to the Central Management Board with a draft, there was a proposal. So what was he staying for? He was waiting for the competition that we had made and for both of these NSAs to come out and get through to distribution, where preparatory actions had also been taken there. But I'm going to stay on the unacceptable abstract sects. And the international casino competition is unacceptable abstract cult, because it also involves a precarious one. As I said, if it is not accepted or if the market is not interested, the stock would never change, because it was a reversal heresy. But the most obvious is the heresy regarding judicial maturation. No pending application for annulment of any administrative act of the listed. One, two, three, four. Here because, Minister, you say - and I heard you say this in the morning - that the Greek, which we question, the Greek State has an obligation to do the abstractions. The investor will do the investment. So it hasn't begun. It's the fake bulldozers. We've analysed this. I'm not saying it's public money. It seems to be a donation - I don't know by what process - to show our communication that something is going on. I, however, ask: have you secured a written resignation of the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ requirement that this deferral be filled? Looks like he's retreating, because otherwise, how is he going to start? If the investor insists on filling this cult, he may never start the project whenever he likes it. Because he's gonna tell the courts that you know how late they are. But if - as you say - it starts, and so it has retreated, you must have written, because you know that the governments are changing, it may be us. We may have tortured the project. I, too, was tortured, Minister, not unfairly. This is the case with legal certainty for an investment, so it is in the public interest. When you're going to do a project of spatial planning and an amendment to the management of commons, then it's not in the public interest that they're not and they're falling into the S.E. I will say something about the amendments now. First of all, you have made a couple of ten amendments. It's what I'm saying that you want to solve everything quickly and they get worse. In the last amendment on the distribution of property, the explanatory statement remained that the cavalry and the beach are included in the right to unilaterally set up regulations or restrictions. Impossible! Of course the provision does not mention it. But we know well that when there is a question of interpretation of the law, someone will refer to the explanatory statement. It is three MDGs or the arrangement or for the public, for the utilities, for unlimited time and unknown time at the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, and then brought one to correct it and then came a third to correct the other two. As far as the independent engineer is concerned. It is a practice your government has done before for concession contracts. It might help, but that's not the point. But not ask for substantiated approval from the services. That is unacceptable! The projects that are going to be done are very serious. Public security may also be at stake. We're talking about big projects. Yes, but it cannot be accepted by the competent authorities and you can tell them that if you have not examined and approved in fifteen days. What's "received"? Okay, well, we said the public's out of everything, but that's a very serious matter. At least you could have predicted opposition to self-determination if material omissions have been identified within 15 days. And I'll say one last thing, 'cause he's been busy with us, and then. This independent engineer from whom is he paid? The investor. This is the case in concession contracts. In other words, there is an issue of control and control here. Whose grace will he do? Anyway, I don't have much time yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u293	You have no time at all. Make sure you get it together and get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u294	Apart from donation - and all of the world is aware of what is happening - but here the legalisation of the arbitrary is done on the basis of the contour of buildings, i.e. covering rather than building. If we think that investment has a depth of 20 years and the Hellenic Office is outside these approvals, who will control these square construction measures that we have won and are now in the final contract? Anyway, in any case, we tried to improve that investment. We have respected the natural and cultural heritage and always with a clear relationship with the investor, where each side recognises its commitments and obligations. Because this is how the investments that serve society and the real economy go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. The Minister has the floor. But not to create...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u296	Anyway, Mrs. Perka is very sympathetic to me and we don't have any personal issues here. Just to explain a few things about both the Minutes and the Greek people, but also a good parliamentary dialogue. First of all, you are absolutely right that for over a decade the region has been deported and completely untapped. Obviously they have responsibility, no objections, those of my own party and the PASOK which they ruled, as well as the various movements that were on the streets and wanted only to become a park and nothing else. Because I was in this House - you were not a Member - when, for the first time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the government of Kostas Karamanlis, Mr Souflias, had come here and talked about the need to take advantage of the Greek area. And he even suggested that some luxurious homes should then be made from the revenues of which the maintenance of the park could be financed. When George Souflias said this here, what happened in Parliament on the left you can't imagine! So you have a share of responsibility in deportation too, because you were all negative. What was your original plan? To be a big park. And whenever they asked, "Who will pay the park?" Criston Arsenis, that is, nothing! That's great! Let's go now. Since we finally decided to use it, in fact, the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras - and we must credit him this - was the man who envisioned this project and shortly before he fell from the Prime Minister, signed the contract with LAMDA DEVELOPMENT for the concession of the space to the Greek. What was the political situation in Greece then? Mr. Tsipras had then gone to the Greek with the then mayor Mr. Cortzidis. They had Mr. Kordidis on a railing and he had a hunger strike so that the Greek would never be given. And Mr. Tsipras with "AGEY" held a conference saying: "The Greek is our soul, it will only be a park". In this political environment, therefore, despite these adversities, the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras succeeded and proceeded with the investment. The Greek people voted for Mr. Tsipras to test him and made him a Prime Minister. And what happened, Mrs. Perka? You told us just now. You've changed some terms of the contract. I'm not going to talk. We talked her up - you know - in the House. You weren't a congressman again. The rapporteur was the Minister for Culture of SYRIZA Mr Baltas. And when I told him that this contract was an ideological victory of the New Democracy, he replied to me - and it is in the Minutes of the House - that for SYRIZA, according to Mr Baltas, the Greek is your treaty of Brest - Litovsk and that you made a retreat, because it could not be done otherwise to keep power, but when you really had authority, you would take everything behind the investor. That's what Baltas said here. So it was absolutely obvious, Mrs Perka, that that is why I honor you and I have said it four hundred times - that you have done a very difficult job, harder my own. What was the hard work? You should go ahead with at least half your party against you. You know, I have directors of the Ministry of the Environment who told us that Mrs Perka was coming, she said, "Do that," she was leaving and the Minister went down and said, "Don't give her any meaning"! That's what we've been told by officials at our Greek conferences! So I'm telling you that you did it with great difficulty and the ministers of the Tsipra government sabotaged you. That's the reality. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Now we're going to something heavy you said. You said the Mitsotakis statement is naive. Totally false what you're saying is wrong. Why? What did Mitsotakis say about unlocking the project in a week? At that time, the joint ministerial decision that provided that the Central Archaeological Council would have such a key role in implementing the investment that the company automatically said is leaving on this condition. This decision, the FYROM that blocked the investment, was annulled by a decision of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the third day that he was Prime Minister. So the reason he blocked the investment on Friday, unlocked the investment on Wednesday. In fact, as he has said, it has been done. As far as the casino contest is concerned, I'm sorry, you didn't make any competitions for the casino. You took off the bidding items, but no competition took place. The date of the competition was postponed twice when we came to the government. We did the contest. And note that we did the competition on October 4th 2019 - it was the day of the competition, unless you were a government on October 4th 2019 - holding the same committee of games appointed by SYRIZA. And I say it because, when the "HARD ROCK" court dispute began, "MOHEGAN", the head of the SYRIZA Mr. Pappas, unfortunately, had initially adopted all the categories of "HARD ROCK" about implying that the competition was set. When the court rulings on the other hand justified the handling of the Games Committee and Mr Kararigoriou, the President, whom - I repeat - you appointed, thankfully stopped, and SYRIZA stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u297	In 2014 he was appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u298	I say SYRIZA had appointed him. I don't get social certificates. However, SYRIZA was Mr. Karagorios. His term of office was renewed by Mr. Chakaloto. I've seen her. So I'm resuming the contest, so we did. We're going to the burial sects now. You said to me, if you do not have a document from 'LAMDA', there is nothing that you say. You're wrong. Now listen, because you're wrong. Much above the documents, Mrs. Perka, it's in the interest. So let's go see what's in the interest of 'LAMDA'. LAMDA has made an increase in the share capital of 650 million for the project in Greek, has issued a bond of 330 million for the project in Greek and has received 1.5 billion loans from the bank for the project in Greek. LAMDA now loses money every day. The expulsion is now the 'LAMDA'. This explains why LAMDA pays the demolition works. I am pleased that this is the first time I have heard from a SYRIZA MEP that the demolition works are not burdened with by the Greek taxpayer, because in the first days that the demolitions began I was fed up with listening to the lies of your MPs on the channels, that the Greek State is paying for the works and that you also lure Mr Arsenis, who is more immature - let us say so - to parliamentarians and is being lured. Therefore, in this sense, it is the first public assumption that the money is being put in 'LAMDA'. Now, no matter how much you want to deceive...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u299	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u300	What? Under contract. We voted here, Mrs Perka, and we gave the right to sign a contract with the "LAMDA" and on the basis of this law the contract with the "LAMDA". The President of the "ELOLENIC S.A.", who has signed the contract, is your president again. We have left her, the one Mr. Flambury had appointed. So you are now telling me that the President of the Hellenic Republic, appointed by Mr Flamouraris, has unlawfully done so?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u301	Did I say illegal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u302	At some point, hold on to the real world. They've all become legal with your own people. That's the reality. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Why did we leave your own people? I say that and I close. For one basic reason, Mrs. Perka. You didn't do it, but what do you do, what you do. There are two ways to see Greek. One is, as SYRIZA unfortunately sees it from the day of the elections, that is to say, as another area of political conflict between New Democracy and SYRIZA. This serves us politically, because in the end the "go" for the Greek will take the entire New Democracy, and it does not belong to the entire project. You're giving us all the work you've done while you've done a lot of work. In my opinion, you're making a big mistake. The Greek had to present it as a project, which eventually despite our disagreements, our differences, our struggles, all within politics and accepted, is a project that unites three different successive governments, the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, New Democracy - PASOK, the Government of SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. If we had seen this, Mr President, we would all be happy, we would all vote on the amendments, we would all be pleased to see the work progressed, we would all be pleased that the world would find a job, and we would all get a share of success. What you do, Mrs. Perkas, reduces your own and personal contribution to making the work in Greek and is a very big mistake. Honestly, that's what I think. You don't deserve the trouble you've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u303	We're moving on. Next is Mr Spankis from New Democracy, and then Mr Himaras from New Democracy. Just, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you this. After the bill was completed, there are fifteen questions. I will not behave like the last minute Mr. Bouras. I mean, seven minutes, it's gonna be seven minutes. After the draft was completed, however, there are fifteen questions. You've already seen the Minister of Health. There are fifteen questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u304	Yes, but the rapporteurs must speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u305	It's our seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u306	Alas, I'm not talking about it. But fifteen questions are four hours. Take note of you. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin by thanking the staff of the Ministry of Development, Mr Georgiadis, the Deputy Minister, Mr Panathanassis, the Secretary-General, Mr Stuboulidis, because today an amendment was accepted which solves problems of the daily lives of professionals, holders of professional permits for outdoor trade. By accepting this amendment, we give the possibility of renewing their authorisation to those who fulfil the criteria set out in Article 19 of the relevant law and can reapply for renewal of their permits. In other words, the New Democracy Government gives a second chance to people with low incomes, bio-populators who needed this regulation. Also, for those professionals who were licensed and who had withdrawn licences, because they had exceeded the limits of Article 21 of the relevant law, we have until 31/12-20 the withdrawal of their licence. So their license will be valid until 31-12-20. These are not for professionals, nor big businessmen, they are for bio-populists, because this government is aimed at all the social strata. Ladies and gentlemen, today comes a bill, which, through 65 articles, gives solutions to everyday life and to the fight against counterfeiting. Many are the reasons for the paramilitary trade, such as the high indirect taxation brought by the SYRIZA government. This should also be reduced in this direction the Government of New Democracy is also moving. But what is the main cause of the ineffective operation of the control mechanisms? Does anyone have to ask? The existence of multiple services and instruments with overlapping responsibilities and coverage areas, which eventually leads to no one ever being responsible for anything. In order to control and protect the movement of illegal and dangerous products it is currently responsible for two institutions, the importance of which is not called into question. However, their parallel activity has often caused confusion of competence. The setting-up of the inter-service market control unit, the so-called IMEA, maintains all the positive features of the current two institutions, but at the same time establishes a single control mechanism with full and clear competences and an expanded scope according to the new market data. I quote, for example, because time is limited, some provisions that demonstrate that the IMIM will succeed, because its purpose is to draw up together with the Directorate-General of the IMO of the national strategic plan to deal with illegal trade, to respect the digital data management system as a central point of complaints and information, and in particular to provide them with the relevant services. This provision stops the timeless justification of the non-competents, 'what I do not know, has not been informed', etc. We end the pathogens of the past. The EPC and its organs shall be given the opportunity to request at any time, where necessary, the intervention of the prosecutor, but also to cooperate with bodies and agencies abroad in combating illegal trade and illegal electronic commerce at international level. It is this government that is in fact moving electronic invoicing through the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are now called upon to vote on today by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis goes further towards the completion of e-government, towards modernising the operation of our country. In practice, however, not with theories and excuses, so that nothing moves forward. Article 51 of this Legislation provides that IKIs are to be set up by means of a ‘Electronic Service of a Stage’. We are now establishing an integrated information system and for the organisation and operation of rural trade. There are important provisions for chambers. Chambers are a very important institution, which unfortunately in Greece over the years has ceased to perform up-to-date work, often not only have they been a means of fulfilling the demands of trade unions or political purposes. With today's bill, there is a new beginning for the modernisation of chambers, and I hope that we will continue to have this, that we will have a comprehensive framework, modernised, in line with European standards, so that our curators can again become a credible institution, which will provide important work for professionals. And since I spoke to professionals, Minister, the draft law includes provisions for licensed plumbers as well. We have to talk at some point about the professionals in the technical sectors who unfortunately are slowly going to be away. While we have - and we have - excellent technicians and craftsmen, we have the technological educational establishments, the professional and technical high school, recognized and valid technical schools, somewhere slowly - all this has been devalued. We should start a substantial dialogue from the beginning for our professionals, see what happened, what motives we can give for existing and new professionals, see the needs of the market today. The current draft law has a lot more positive. Mr President, to conclude, I will try to make it clear, such as the provision for the Single Elevators Register, the provisions on research and innovation, the establishment of the National Register of Ingenuity Enterprises. Everyone loves to refer to start-ups, to various Greek business success stories, but in reality we do not even have a formal record of newcomers operating in our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, on the issues of the Chamber of Economic Affairs, I referred earlier to the Chambers. That is precisely what we have in Article 57 regulations. The aims of the Greek Chamber of Economics are expanded in a direction of modernisation. Let's move on to more brave reforms in our caretakers. We have provisions in this bill for both the Technical Chamber of Greece and the Chamber of Finance. We shouldn't stay here. The institution of the chambers is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Spankee, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u309	We've, unfortunately, lost four and a half years. We have been in front of unforeseen and unprecedented global situations. We will, however, continue to legislate with a view to development, progress towards the creation of Greece that we want. For Greece that we want is shaped as it deserves the Greeks with the Government of New Democracy. And those who question this government's efforts for the Greek...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Spankee, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u311	Because it is also my constituency, Mr President, allow me. I invite them to visit the facilities of the Greek island day, to see the demolitions. For those who comment that nothing is done, probably spend the night and do not see the work going on. And it will be a great success, because our region has high unemployment rates and employment needs to be strengthened in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Spankee, my area has higher unemployment rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u313	That is why I call on all of Parliament's wings to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much. We remember our constituency at the beginning, not at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u315	In the end they shave the groom!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u316	Uh, I don't know who the groom is right now. Mr. Heimaras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I shall speak from my position much less. They have heard today - I think - and all the issues raised have been answered. Of course, time is valuable to everyone. I would testify in detail my experience in the trade, as a trader himself over the last fifteen years in Lamia. I fully understand the efforts of the Ministry. I congratulate you on that, Mr President-in-Office. He is our opponent in the fight for all these ten years of the crisis so that we can maintain jobs in our businesses so that we very small entrepreneurs can live together with our family partners. Of course, I could not go along with the efforts being made in relation to newly developed enterprises for at least a little while. This new framework was necessary for our country. It is my belief that newly-born businesses can be that incentive to turn our children back, the children working abroad and to strengthen our government's effort, the country's effort to get out of this deadlock. There are too many arrangements in the bill. I will make use - if you like - of the opportunity of your presence here, to set you a local target in Fthiotida, where you could - if you would like - for this site to house a group of newcomers. I am referring to the Panhellenic Lamia report. It is a place at the entrance of the city that is unfortunately abandoned, which can be that lever of development of our region and of Lamia and of the Region of Central Greece. Those infrastructures can create an economy where there is no and, unfortunately in recent years, the SYRIZA government has legislated a distorted piece of legislation, which absolutely needs to be corrected. I would also be very pleased if I could be present today by Mr Spanakis, my colleague, to thank you for an amendment that would solve the issue of the Pan-Hellenic Lamia report. I am sure, however, that the next period will be, in order to make use of the resources of the NRP, the Recovery Fund, so that we can finally create jobs in the Greek region, because that will support our country's tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much for the time. We're coming to the syllabuses of the rapporteurs. You all want to talk? You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u319	Why, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u320	Excuse me, but the President-in-Office, when you were speaking this morning, kept your time accurately. To tell you the truth, with the exception of Mr Kelles, who spoke 15 minutes and thirty-seven seconds and Mr Arsenis who spoke ten minutes and twelve seconds all the others have consumed your denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u321	It is a huge bill and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u322	It's huge and it's also huge. But what do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u323	Is that what the Minister is about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u324	Of course, it also concerns the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u325	He spoke eighty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u326	I'm sure the Minister won't talk. Whatever he had to say he said. Let's start with the dentures. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to begin with what has been said on the SYRIZA side. I accept that SYRIZA's opposition and that he has to make opposition. That is why I understand a great deal of the arguments that are at the heart of seriousness. But to say that the New Democracy does not defend the public interest, I think it is beyond any limit. You are the party that first called members of your government and recently spoke in the Maximos Mansion, which they called "magic for jobs with a lot of money". Are you telling us, in New Democracy, about relationships with businessmen and canalarchs? I'm asking you. The Himalayan cat reminds you of something? The goat's pastures are referencing you somewhere? Let's not go down on television licenses for the Institute of Florence, who don't even know about it in Florence! Please, colleagues. In all things, there's a limit! I'm coming to the bill. You spoke of clandestineness and unconnected provisions. Are you saying this, which has not been a bill for four and a half years, which has not been omitted in joint ministerial decisions and in ministerial decisions? In addition, Mrs Jackres focused on her criticism of the bill that the IMF does not provide for cooperation. Are you serious? To discuss the substance of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that this is a well-structured and coherent draft law. The first set of provisions in the articles from 1 to 22 concerning the DEMEA shall be defined in detail in relation to the organisation, operation of the unit, the purpose of the unit, the object of the service, the operational objectives, the staffing, the organisation of the control scales, the cooperation with the DSO, the Municipal Police, the Labour Inspectorate, the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Health, the EEA, the National Transparency Authority and all other services, including other Member States, wherever and for what they need. In the second set of provisions, rules relating to support for professional sectors, flexibility of economic activity and entrepreneurship are grouped in Articles 23 to 45. These provisions are linked to the amendments with the general number 411 and the number 23 as well as to the general number 419 and the number 26. In particular, the first amendment to re-expand the construction of rapid patrols from Elefsina Shipyards, on the one hand, gives the opportunity to complete a project launched in 2016 and should have been completed in 2018 and will be delivered by 30 September 2020, on the other hand, to regenerate the country's shipyards after finding a solution that will make our shipyards viable. As far as the second amendment is concerned, it also goes hand in hand with provisions of the bill, but I would first like to make three specific points, such as the warehouses referred to in Article 3, which is a solution to many of these companies. It takes them out of the deadlock all over Greece, as the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, said. In Article 41, with Article 5 of the amendment, rehabilitation and recovery centres are part of the development law. It is a very important amendment, which strengthens the business of human health and social care. I will go to the arrangements of Articles 6, 7 and 13 which are a number of aspects of the provisions of Articles 46 to 56 for research and innovation. Both the incentives for workers in research university institutes and the establishment of the Thessaloniki-INTEC for the operation and management of the fourth generation technology park in Thessaloniki are concrete elements of the development, research and innovation in the country. Article 13 of the amendment is very important because it allows research centres to have access to the national register of coronary patients in order to further strengthen our integrated and successful strategy. I come to the amendment with a general number of 418 and a special 25 on the suspension of the right of 'DIGEA', said by Minister Petsas, which suspends the possibility of interrupting the provision of services because of the pandemic, etc. Therefore, all the amendments are crucial synergies between the articles of the draft law and enrich it in the light of the operational cross-border development policies. That is why the majority supports the amendments and the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mrs Jackri has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because you have consumed much of your initial position by referring to the comparative data of the checks carried out by the Coordinating Centre, I would like to remind you that the Coordinating Centre was founded in 2013 on the days of the New Democracy. I think you're getting the wrong landmark, wrong Milestone. I will submit to the Minutes - for there to be - the 2018 report, not because I question the number of checks that you have said, but to show you what the coordinating centre has done from 2013 to 2016. He made a zero, made zero market checks on the market that we all know how important they are. The coordinating centre was a body - I said it many times - and was resurrected from 2016 to 2019. It is true, Minister, that when a body which does not exist before resurrects and enters a process to carry out checks, it will increase its quantitative and qualitative elements. That's all about the SYKEAAP. I now come to this most important amendment on the Greek Sugar Industry, to which you referred earlier. You expressly mention something and I read it directly from the explanatory statement in Article 4 of the Single Amendment, the body of the amendment: 'These are debts incurred to the staff, which continue to be engaged until the process of its transfer is completed'. I would like to ask you, Minister: In addition to the hundreds of three workers, who are already in a process of transport to other public services, there are other workers or among them who will be faced with the range of dismissal and, indeed, the vote on the amendment today, which relieves the members of the previous Board of Directors. the obligation to pay compensation to the dismissals? That's what I want to know. It is crucial that we vote 'no', and indeed that now, Minister, we are at a critical stage, where there is not just the reorganization agreement but it has also been ratified by the court and everything that is born in this period of time, what is being done in the life of the company, whether it is covered by the resolution agreement and is legitimate and beneficial for it or not. I now come to Article 6 concerning the Greek. He raised much of the debate today in the Greek. I would like to ask you, frankly, to answer: This 6a you are doing for the independent engineer who will oversee, approve, control the studies, deliver the work, and, in fact, according to verse (d) will the public service be obliged within 15 days to accept the private engineer's report, otherwise you believe that this matter will be referred to arbitration, do you, a market man - for many things we can blame you, but can we not tell you that you are not a marketman - that this will not go down to the Council of State? Did the Ministry of Development really tell you that this particular article can stand? This is a public service assignment of the narrow core of the State to a private investor. That doesn't stand anywhere. Because I am sure, Minister, that I have been here before that you know that, let me say that this article, 6a, will be your alibi and your pretext to justify, as you so far justify, why the investment of the Greek will not proceed. I now come to the other dreadful amendment on 'DIGEA' and the charismatic arrangements you bring for private national channels and I insist on that. Mr Minister, instead of bringing us private channels as you do with the benefits you are giving them, you people from the private economy, the market and private initiatives have made them bad for the state-owned ERT. I therefore suggest that, instead of bringing in three hour private channels subsidies, you build a company there at Maximos, say "Maximos Holdix S.A." and "Hang" under various subsidiaries. One subsidiary, let's go buy the channels. Honestly, Minister, it will cost the Greek taxpayer less. The other private company, the subsidiary, call it "Business Services" and anyone who wants to make a business service, come there. I don't know who you're going to put in charge. The director of your office? Will Mr. Demetriades himself come in in person, pay a paradox and move their business forward, come here? Is that possible, Minister? You have essentially done democracy - what can I say to you? - an institutional parody. Everything that is more roussfetological, more customer-friendly, more illegal, you come here in Parliament and actually upgrade it. That's exactly what you're doing. So, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. Nisafi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Just to make something clear, I imagine, Mrs. Jackie, the questions you asked are of a rhetorical character, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u331	Whatatever it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u333	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u334	Thank you. None of the workers of the Greek Sugar Industry will be fired, but as you know, it is, as you know, in the process of transition, and this process, as you know, unfortunately is not progressing automatically. It passes through various government departments, councils, joint ministerial decisions, etc. So these people want to have our cover for this interim period until this process is completed. I ask SYRIZA again why I'm going to leave now so I know if I'm gonna leave her or if I'm gonna get her out. Are you voting against the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u335	I'll tell you if I'm given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u336	It is important to understand it because we have had a dialogue since the morning. I am pleased that we have agreed that it is not Mr Karathanassis and the investor. It concerns the current board of directors of the Greek Sugar Industry. So I want a clear answer very calmly and civilly: do you vote against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u337	Mrs. Jackrey, answer me with a yes or no, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u338	Even what you're asking, Minister, you know it's hypocritical. I know that this amendment is an individual regulation of a body of fifteen amendments. You know, Minister, because you are an old parliamentarian, that if we have a difference of opinion and even disagree on one point, we have to say no to the whole of the amendment. So don't put that on me. If you are committing yourself here today that no one will be made redundant by this regulation, we are adopting it. And another thing that I forgot about 6a: you have made it clear to us beforehand that the participation of Mrs Latsis and Mrs LAMDA DEVELOPMENT has received the Swiss fund in any case, which you have told us has nothing to do with 'ORLINA PROPERTIES'. They all ended up being a party with Mr. Samaras, the former Prime Minister's brother and Mr. Zavvos. So, look at this. It is to investigate all these issues - and I told you in my prototype - but not so much regardless of each other. The "Orlina Properties" in real estate is not so unrelated to the fund that it substituted Ms. Latsis in her shares in Greek. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u339	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u340	Wait a minute. I want Mr. Katrinis to talk to everyone and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u341	For seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u342	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u343	Mrs Jackson, because I have said in my speech that if I do not have the consent of SYRIZA, I will withdraw it, for the Minutes, that if you have declared that no one will be fired on this part, regardless of whether you vote against the amendment as a whole for other reasons, the amendment remains and will be accepted normally and will be voted on normally with the rest of the amendment from us. As to the second thing you said, listen, Mrs. Jackrey. You have made the Minister for Industry, in other words you have contact with what we are discussing: Shares are purchased by specific companies with specific procedures. The company on the board of directors of which Mr Zavvos, Mr Alexandros Samaras and Mrs Miranda Xafa are involved - I mention the names as mentioned by your parliamentary representative - has nothing to do with Mrs Latsi's shares. Who are they joining or not joining, forgive me, is not a matter of Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u344	I didn't mean friendly. I mean company.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u345	I'm sorry, but this has been discussed before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u346	Again, it has nothing to do with the company ‘ORILINA’ in which the board of directors participated with the shares of Ms Marianna Latsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u347	Mr Katrins has the floor on behalf of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, as many years as I have been in this Chamber, I do not really remember having happened before what happened today. Minister took the floor, or thirteen or fourteen times, to speak for more than an hour and a half, in response personally to every colleague who dared to say something about the bill or the person of the minister. Of course, Mr Georgiadis - who has left now - may think that he is above the tolerance of the Bureau or even limiting the Rules of Procedure, but, Mr President, I would like to assure you that Mr Georgiadis' rhetoric is certainly not above the tolerance of colleagues. Unless we want in the next revision of the Rules of Procedure, we can only put a provision for Mr Georgian to say that he has the right to intervene in any reference made to a bill which has the responsibility or a personal reference to him by way of exception to every colleague. So that's what I want to think it won't happen again. I retain what he said, his commitment to two hundred thousand checks with the new body set up in the bill. It reminds me of the statement just a year ago and four days ago, July 23, 2019, on the bulldozers that would enter the Greek until the end of 2019, and we will see in a year now whether or not it will be implemented. Of course I cannot comment on what former Deputy Trade Minister Vlachos said, that in 2009, as a member of Mr Karamanlis' government, we handed over a mechanism ready to carry out thorough checks, and came the PASOK and abolished them. I do not want to turn the time back, to remember this five-year rule of Karamanlis how severely controlled it introduced and how shielded an economy left the PASOK government and what consequences it had for the country's economy and its citizens. As far as the amendments are concerned, we tabled an amendment - we have done so before - to extend the fee to DIGEA for the regional stations up to September. Of course, we are voting in favour of this amendment, but we think it is incomplete and wrong for the government to incorporate it. It will soon come back to our opinion and will be forced to extend again, because the problems at the regional stations are too great and unfortunately they have been wronged by the sharing of advertising pie. For the shipyards, it has voted in favour of the amendment as well as the permits for outdoor trade by Mr Spanakis, if I am not mistaken. As far as the amendment to the auctions in Rafina by Mr Economou in the fire-fighting areas is concerned, we want to clarify and ask whether it concerns Kinetta, which is a fire-fighting area of the same period. Mr President, I would like to ask myself why an amendment concerning an extension of auctions does not come on Wednesday in the Treasury bill, which officially now for the first ten years in the country, in the House, we will not have first home protection, we will not have an extension of auctions for the other regions, whether they are firefighters, such as Elias, or weak borrowers. It is right that this provision is coming for the fire-fighting areas of 2018, but I do not understand why it comes to the Ministry of Development's bill and not the day after that, where the 'assistant' framework of donation of borrowers from the government of Mr.Mitsotakis will be made, which will open the coast of Halos for the auctions, abolishing first home protection, and unfortunately a precursor is the exception that we are rightly introducing into Parliament today, and we as a Movement of Change we are voting in favour of it. We will, however, insist on Wednesday to extend the suspension of auctions, not only for areas affected in 2018 in the killing fires but for all truly weak borrowers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, too. Mrs Manolakos has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u350	I shall start with the JRC's amendment. Of course, we did not expect the Minister to accept it, but we wanted - and we sincerely call it - to learn a very big problem. Yes, we ask for the removal of polluting industrial units from an area of six hundred acres in the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas. And that's why? Because these industries are polluting with evidence. The dysosmia in the area is intense. It's been years. People are afraid to go out, to breathe literally. In the schools of Drapetson, children don't even take them out in the yard or gymnastics. The neighborhoods remind of a gas chamber. They make the situation unbearable to the literality. There are massive symptoms of dyspnoea, twitching in the eyes and others. They confirm these officially delivered memos from the "Democritus" and the Observatory. benzene outside limits causes cancer, sulphurous volatile substances that are increased and inhaled daily by residents. And of course, through these 'Prime Crisis' and Observatory checks, these polluting industries are being photographed and we ask for their immediate relocation. It's necessary. We will insist. Of course, we are ideologically opposed. However, the barbarity of this system you are serving does not stop, when you give abundance of money and privileges to big businessmen, from selling services even in the health sector, especially for centres for the restoration of HEIs. In other words, economically impossible people can't take care of their health. Well, there is no greater inhumanity, and this money should be used for such infrastructures and their services should be completely free of charge. So it is also inhuman and fierce the capitalist system, because it is not interested in people's needs but only in the profits of business groups. For the Greek very bad fight, little fight. It is to hide that for this fillet you have all voted together and not to stay for the needs of the municipalities, the athletes in Agios Kosmas. You gave it to a group for purchase. You're struggling who's gonna first serve the big investor. What's still hiding? That the independent engineer, who is a private company, is called upon to control his employer, that is to say another private company, as the ‘LAMDA’ is the one that proposed him. It is clear that in any case ensuring maximum profit for the investor requires the minimum cost for infrastructure and public utility projects, with what this entails for the quality and safety of the projects. Moreover, there is a lot of experience - road PPP - costing lives at accidents at work, malicious work, etc. I conclude with the amendments. We agree with the amendment granting extensions for the suspension of enforcement measures to those affected by the murderous fire in Matti. But more measures are needed. We've already tabled a question and put it in detail. We are voting for the extension of licences for popular markets. For the Elefsina shipyard amendment, the Americans are given. There's just a strawman coming in. That's what you and the previous ones did. However, we will only say 'the present' for one reason: to pay the workers, who are made every time a ball. We are voting against the mini-legislative draft with the fifteen amendments, as is this amendment that strengthens private channels and DIGEA. We are also voting against Mr Ploiros' photographic amendment. Only the name of the CEO of the Greek Development Bank is missing. The others are photographic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Villardos from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much. I shall begin with the reply of the Minister to my colleague on illegal immigration. The Minister replied that throughout the year 2019-2020 where it has all the data to date, migratory flows have been reduced. We have tabled a table, which says that in the second half of 2019 there was an increase of 300% compared to the first half of 2019. The 2020 reduction - as is due to the following two reasons: firstly, the application of Article 78 of the European Union which we proposed, and which was implemented by the New Democracy Government for only a month, and secondly, because of COVID -19 which closed the borders, but from there and then started again. They're already raised again. With regard to the reply he gave to me on the checks carried out in the black economy, we said that we have laws as long as they are implemented. The statistics it has submitted according to which there is a great success in this area demonstrate precisely that we have laws and they simply need to be implemented. However, since Sykeap is so successful, as the Minister said, why not enrich him with new staff? We had no reason to set up a new company. Now about LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, I only mentioned the sale of 8.9 million shares in the morning, the evening sold again, so now it is 14.89 million shares and nothing else. I only filled in that no one sells shares when they have prospects of profitability. So when one sells, the market assumes that profitability prospects are lower. As far as the financing of the investment in the Greek that claimed to be guaranteed is concerned, we really wonder where it came from, since the capital increase was 650 million, the bond issue brought between EUR 320 and 330 million, of which the money to buy the land must be deducted to keep the rest. Given the amount of investment at EUR 7 billion, we wonder about its conclusion, unless it is certain that the bank's lending from the banks, which have ceased to lend all the other small and medium-sized enterprises of real economy, is sure. Now, in our view, they will be built in Greek real estate and will also be sold plots, as will the usual counterparts of the casino 'TERNA', the national manufacturer, and MOHEGAN', which will give 30m euros for the license. If you want, I'll submit it to the Minutes. By the way, Mohegan is now downgraded in the United States by MODYS, with an increased risk of bankruptcy and the need to close casinos because of COVID -19. We have not taken this into account at all. Well, he said quite rightly that it is a matter of the Latsis family, but Greece does not have the best experiences of these families, so it makes sense to our mistrust. For example, the "STAR" of the Vardinoyannis family - a large family - continues to show Turkish series, the last channel luckily, noting that from 2000 until today, fifty-five Turkish series have been displayed in Greece. We are, however, against the investment of the Greek island, among other things, because there is no need for other tourist investments in Greece and we always say that the only culture of tourism is to reach the casinos. Now, in this amendment concerning 'DIGEA', we will vote in favour, but we have a great deal of difference with regard to the ELTAs that belong to the superstition. The superstition has revenue and from this revenue it would be well to pay for the damage the ELTAs have. We won't always pay all the Greeks. In Amendment 411 on the Navy plan, we will also be voting in favour. We hope, however, that this will be the last time the Minister has assured us. In the four amendments, together with that of the JRC, we will also vote in favour. We think they're all right. Finally, this major amendment, which is essentially forty-six pages of draft law in a total of seventy-four and fifteen articles full of unclear and broad wordings, will not be voted on. For example, in Article 1, and I shall end, there are vague and invisible objects. Article 2 declassifies a number of unknown buildings and classifies them in the provisions on the establishment of horizontal property and many others which we regard as negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, too. Mr Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr President. We had an unprecedented violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister spoke, in fact, after every opposition Member. There was no opposition Member whose speech was not followed by a reply from Mr Georgiadis. It's never happened before! The other day he gave me the floor to the committee bypassing the President and the President accepted it. It's never happened before! Now, for Mr. Georgiadis and the government unexploited are parks and free spaces, forests, archaeological sites. It was unprecedented that now the "Georgiadis doctrine" had blocked the New Democracy and the Prime Minister. For how else would I judge the statements made by Mr Mitsotakis, a man who, when he was a Member of Parliament, was regarded as the 'green' Member of the New Democracy, and he arrived as Prime Minister to say that: 'In Kassiopi the forest burns, the cement remains, so to proceed with the investment'. Unheard of things, indeed, for a man considered by his party - it is a story that we have stopped thankfully listening to - as the 'green' Prime Minister. I would like to ask Mr Georgiadis - he is missing from the Chamber at the moment - whether he has heard of climate change if he has heard of the need for Greece to have metropolitan parks. Because, indeed, the way it refers to the Greek, shows that a metropolitan park is really useless in its own logic. It shows that it is really useless to give this land to the municipalities and the public. In one thing I will agree with him, that the Greek has unfortunately become a joint project of the three major parties. The difference is that the New Democracy is much more unequivocal in how it promotes it, but there is an obvious competition. And I will not forget Alexis Tsipras' abstraction in his last election speech in Athens, that this greatest Mediterranean fillet could not be untapped. It was a shocking thing. Now with the new amendment to this bill comes the private engineer who approves everything, and the small part that remains in the public sector to judge, will automatically be adopted if there is a minimum period of time. I shall conclude, Mr President. We are now wondering, what will be the next delaying amendment of the last minute in an irrelevant bill to come for the Greek. Apart from a bill passed by the Committee on Production and Trade, all the others had late, last minute photographic amendments always in unrelated bills for the Greek. It's incomprehensible how you make the illegal legality for the Greek. They have said that the numbers do not come out. But do you know which basic numbers don't come out? The figures for tackling climate change do not come out. They do not come out the figures of the quality of the environment for an investor who does not have the money, only if we give him and give him ours to make the casino in the center of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u355	Mr Arseni, thank you. The debate is adjourned at the outset, under Articles, and amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Services, Market Control Unit, regulation of economic activity, countering illegal trade, fines for the movement and marketing of counterfeit/false products, regulation of issues for industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research, innovation and the Economic Chamber of Greece and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-four articles, six amendments, the office article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u356	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u357	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u358	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Services Unit for Market Control, regulation of economic activity, dealing with illicit trade, fines for the marketing and marketing of counterfeit/false products, regulation of issues for industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research, innovation and the Chamber of Economics of Greece and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u359	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u360	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 27 July 2020 that the topical and urgent questions to be debated are as follows: The question under number 938/17-7-2020 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct support for working tourist bus drivers". The second question by number 940/20-7-2020 of the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct application of the decisions of the Council of State on pensioners' retrospectives". The question under number 941/20-7-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extension of the collective agreement of the tourist bus drivers of Crete with the tourist agents and the owners of tourist buses". The question under number 942/20-7-2020 of a second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Publication of a ministerial decision in accordance with the order of reasonable doubt (Law 4554/18) and the engineers, old insured, who have full insurance to another body, other than the CSME”. The question asked by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Equivalence of age limits for men and women for retirement with a minor child (20 years/2010). These topical questions and questions under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The question under number 934/15-7-2020 of the first cycle of the MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Excluded Elias from the plans of the Ministry of Health.” The question under number 936/17-7-2020 of the first cycle of the MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Delay in the energy upgrade programme of hospitals'. The second question by number 937/17-7-2020 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on "Except for one of the two radiation therapies of the University General Hospital of Larissa (PGN)". The question under number 939/17-7-2020 of the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Provisions and forecasts on the occasion of an increase in COVID-19 cases". The second question by number 945/20-7-2020 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘The health care establishments of Elias excluded from the announcement of posts for qualified doctors in the ESS sector’. The question under number 948/20-7-2020 of a second question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Support for mentally ills and those who need psychological support". The question under number 949/20-7-2020 of a second question by MP B2' West Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on "Would you be nursing a ranch in Attica" in the middle of a pandemic, Minister? The question by MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The operation of an intensive care unit at the General Hospital of Kilkis". The Question No 6623/19-5-2020 by MP of the Greek Communist Party Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Determined-time workers at Drama Hospital". The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, entitled "The need for a modern and serious policy for the development of public health". These topical questions and questions under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered first by the Minister of Health, Mr Vassiliou Kikilia. We begin with the first under number 936/17-7-2020 in the first cycle of the Members of Parliament of Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delay in the energy upgrade programme of hospitals". Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you all to keep the time, because it is a total of fifteen, so we will definitely go by 12 o'clock at night. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all today is the first time that we have had a topical question. All the other questions I've asked, Mr. Kontozamanis has answered them and it's like he didn't answer. The question is about the delay in the energy upgrade programme of the country's hospitals. Last June 5th 2019, and after a serious process had taken place with the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Economy, the managing authorities, etc. etc., we have managed and guaranteed the funding of EUR 45.6 million of the energy upgrade of fourteen hospitals in the country. The fourteen hospitals were: The General Hospital of Kavala, the General Hospital of Thessaloniki, the General Hospital of Thessaloniki Papageorgiou, the General Hospital of Volos, the University Hospital of Ioannina, the Psychiatric Hospital of Dromokadeio in Attica, PSYHAT in Attica, the General Regional Hippocrates of Thessaloniki, the “Achilopoulos” Hospital of Volos, the University of Ioannina, the Psychiatric Hospital of “ELENA VENIZELO - ALEANDRA”, and the National Hospital. The sums ranging from 2.5 million to more than 4.5 million euros, a total of 45 million euros, which were, in fact, and are, a large program with shells replacement, replace led lamp tubes, with other air-conditioning systems, with replacement of doors with energy, with a number of insulations in building infrastructure, roofs and walls that would actually lead to a reduction in energy consumption of around 30% in these hospitals. This meant a hospital, for example at the University Hospital of Ioannina, a reduction in annual operating costs and a saving of money from the EUR 900,000 a year. Corresponding amounts are in all major hospitals and it does not fall into no less than 500,000 to 600,000 euros. Therefore, all hospitals would have saved, which could have turned to other costs. You, as far as I know, have included nine other hospitals across the country with decisions to join this programme, because it is the Energy Upgrade Programme of Public Power Buildings by STHY or using RES in hospitals of the Operational Transport Infrastructure, Environment Sustainable Development 2014-2020. We started the proceedings last year. It is work that has been done with governors who have remained from our time, etc. The question is this: A year after the competitions, it seems to be emptied. Even hospitals in which the contest is completed and which are the control of these competitions under the operational structure of the NRP to approve them, as the University Hospital of Ioannina sends the Ministry of Health - and I will speak in my protology, but according to the answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Polakis, I drank, but one more phrase because it's been four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u364	Wait a minute, Mr President, because it is a task that changes hospitals as much as it is to be done. They are therefore constantly sending contradictory cartoons to hospitals, even to hospitals that have finished the competition, and they are told: "Change the type of project from "Procurement and Installation" to "Worker". What does that mean? While, beware, the technical service itself has given approvals of feasibility, to publish these projects as ‘Procurement and Installation’. The cost is 50% less. That's the difference. If you get frames and installments say to you: "No, it's not "Procurement and Installation", it's "Work". If you do it as "Procurement and Installation" it does 500,000 euros and if you do it as a "Work" it will reach a million. And I call it fat. The same technical service, which has nowadays approved - and I signed - purposes to be procured, and the installation is sending you circulars and says: 'No, do the work'. Because I've been through the script in several hospitals in the past, I need an answer if the whole program will proceed if you're watching it? There's a lot of things you have in your head, I know, I've experienced. The issue is this because these are projects that live and change the lives of both workers and patients, it is a great opportunity for this programme, we have spit out blood to do this then and to get the money from the Ministry of Development. We've joined the first hospitals, you've got all right, I've learned nine more, but the point is to move on. And they are not going to go ahead, I now tell you in the first place, by such a procedure that no one is going to happen. There's no one going to be. Answer me and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u365	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u366	Now, Mr President, I am starting with it mildly and depending on the answer I am going to continue anyway, because you know very well with a personal view of my face, that there is no or otherwise in these answers, there is the reality that we are experiencing and always adequate explanations. And you do well to check, within the framework of parliamentarianism, the headship of the Ministry of Health for everything. In order to avoid time, is the energy upgrade programme important? Of course, Mr Colleague, it is very important. Welcome to the process and put these hospitals in, and have you included the funds in the budget? Sure. Is it the aim of the Ministry of Health's political leadership to implement the programme more quickly and not to delay it? Sure. We all understand that, and I want us to agree at least on the basics. There's common sense. Of course, I would like these energy upgrade projects to go ahead, including other hospitals, of course, and if that is possible as many hospitals as possible. Is there some kind of improper attitude? On the contrary. I found these blocked. I was trying to figure out why the managers weren't moving on. I was trying to figure out the services as well. And it is not true, Minister, that we have changed or changed the Ministry, that it has transformed technical documents for the implementation of the tender from supplies to work, as you say, but mixed. What does it mean to be mixed and why do we think that the project will go ahead? A place is work and a place is a supply, as is this project in reality. A piece of the whole process is work and another piece is commission. The solution of the mixed contracts in accordance with the consultation of the Ministry of Health and the relevant ministries at the level of secretaries - and that is why I repeat welcome the effort you have made, the way in which you wished to proceed with the work could never be completed and progressed, had blocked the management, as you know the managers are not at the Ministry of Health - is the only way to get away from the stumbling blocks and to proceed with these projects as well as, of course, above all, because it was at risk, to lose funding, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Paulakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u368	Minister, I will feed you with an answer, because I want these projects to be done, because I have lost too much food to start this programme. I'll feed you on that answer. It is the answer of Vassilis Tsikaris, the commander of the University Hospital of Ioannina until a month ago, who answers one point. You can take this as a form, because this is where the Association of Greek Companies - Studies Offices to EADESIS applied. The same argument is everywhere, they themselves have caught the technical service, they have caught the management authorities themselves. So what do they say? The Single Independent Public Procurement Authority sent questions to the University of Ioannina while making the contest. And he says, "Why don't you tell us why you're doing this like this, why don't you do that?" It's what the Association of Greek Companies sent. What do I mean by that? The University of Ioannina has twenty - seven engineers in the technical service. He wrote an excellent answer, which, on the basis of this, took the approval of EASA and went on this contest. It's a lie they're telling you. Listen to me. This society and this area of the Ministry of Health has been built thirty years, in how we eat more and say it by names. You know that even - and we did not have time to change them - the Souffle Act applies to studies, where the same work, a health centre, if it is studying the structure of the Ministry of Health, whether the technical service, the Ministry of the Environment or the hospital costs are a million euros, for example. If the same project is studied by a municipality, costs EUR 100,000. I experienced this as Mayor of Sfakion. I studied the Polyvalent Regional Doctorate of 35,000 euros. If the DHS did it, it would've done 350,000 euros. That's what they tell you. It's all the lies you're told by managers and everyone. This answer here solves all the questions your technicians may have. The reason we're doing is first to eat money in studies outside. Secondly, to baptize work on the placement of the frames or the placement of the doors while you have purchased doors and frames or have taken the air conditioner. You don't have, he says, an air condition study. About the connections to the air conditioners? That's what we're doing. That's it. Take the answer. Read it, show it to the services and unblock the works. Let me tell you one last thing. I'd love you to see - you can't answer me today, but I'm telling you now - if you've given after July 2019 EUR 1 for projects from the Ministry's reserve, if you've been integrated since July 2019 EUR 1... It's been a year since I asked you the question, we've had other davants. But now I will come back very strongly with this, because from the Ministry's reserve a hidden sum of eleven and fourteen million euros each year from which we were paying judicial decisions, I, from the reserve, financed thirty million euros of equipment and small projects in the three years that took place in all hospitals in the country, from the Public Investment Programme for National Resources. Has anyone informed you that we have national resources? Well, we're fine, and we've paid about 50 million euros, and twenty-five are paid. Are you okay with any of this work? And also the third question that will come soon is from the Dures contest that has been blocked, the first twenty-three million have been auctioned, much has been placed, some are being delayed. The second is blocked, and Mr. Patoulis has not played five in the small equipment and in units, etc. Too much you say it's in donations, there's in the Dures contest, they could have moved on. The companies, etc., objected. I'll come back with a specific question for the cyber knife machine in the state of Nice. There 27 August he filed the appeal, 1 September Patolis took over, the month passed, did not do the answer, and it is the competition in the air again. It's the first cyber knife radiation surgery machine to get into a public hospital. Let me know about them, because I'll come back after the vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u369	Thank you. That is the subject of a new timely question. Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u370	As you can see, Mr President, the Minister is torrential, he starts with the question and ends with other issues. But I can't answer him now. It is important that the issues he raised are important. The cyber knife is important. Let me remind you, Minister, that you were four and a half years there, so I didn't, I didn't, etc. - not you personally, we are talking about the whole political leadership - that is something that is relevant. Like myself, I was the one who attended an event at the "Evangelism" with the former district manager, thanking her for all the effort that took place on high-tech machines that are entering our hospitals. But I can't ignore that the technical studies to get into hospitals are no special spaces to get in, there's no money to get in, and a machine that goes to the paediatric hospital is for adults. So there is one measure in all, and there is common sense there. We can understand where common sense exists. You're telling me something about the commander of the Ioannina Hospital. Let me take it, let me see it, but I told you about specific things. You ask me a question about an energy upgrade. I'll take these. I'll take them to the service. I told you I found a blocked situation. I want it to remain blocked and not to upgrade the hospitals, which is a project that you started? No, of course not. I want them not to be blocked and move on. We had a meeting with the co-legislative ministries...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u371	And not to eat the farms!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u372	Wait a minute. It is also a matter of the Ministry of Development, Economic and Environment, at the level of Secretary-General with the relevant Secretary-General. And we have reached this level, to tell you that this is how all the services are recommending that the project can go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u373	The second question under number 934/15-7-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Members of the Elias Movement, Michalis Katrin, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Excluded Elias from the plans of the Ministry of Health.” Please, Mr Katrin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, one and a half months ago in this Chamber we asked the Secretary of State, Mr. Kotzamiani, about the gaps in the hospitals of Elias to medical staff, which forced administrations to move doctors from the Amalada Hospital to the Tower Hospital to cover gaps which could not be covered by permanent recruitments. So this whole situation has created a gap in the health services provided. We asked the Minister what he intends to do with this situation, although he really means the Prime Minister's commitment to recognise the contribution of the public health system, so he will strengthen hospitals. The answer was that thirteen posts of caretakers are under way, in a crisis process, but without responding, Mr. Minister, Mr. Kontozamanis, when this procedure will be completed and when these doctors will come to the hospitals. At the same time, we have reinstated the request from the administrations from all three institutions of the prefecture for the proclamation of all empty organic medical staff, a request signed by the commander of the 6th Ministry of Health. And we say that because 31-12-2020 is going to be vacant for the position of the head of surgical clinic, orthopaedic clinic, ophthalmological clinic and radiology. Before, therefore, "you speak, three..." and since the State Secretary has not committed himself to the proclamation of empty organic positions - it was only accidental - the proclamation came from the Ministry, which provides for twenty-five positions for the hospitals in the 6th Health Region, none of which is allocated to the hospitals in the Prefecture of Elias. It is, of course, surprising that hospitals of smaller capacity, please bring it from that of the Tower, such as the General Hospital of Molai, take six permanent medical staff seats. At the same time you are well aware of the difficulty in the period of COVID -19, where there was no intake of subsidiary medical staff, because there was no interest in medical staff for the hospitals of Elias. So, you understand this makes it even more imperative that the hospitals in the county should be strengthened with permanent staff. Finally, I would like to ask you two questions, since I tell you that the absence of Elijah has caused the strong reaction of both the local government and the medical club and all the actors in the region. The first is whether to direct the empty organic positions of permanent medical staff for the hospitals of Elias, as requested by all three hospitals and by the 6th RS and the second, if you will convert the positions of subsidiary physicians to the positions of curators II, as Mr. Kontozamanis said forty days ago in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u375	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Kathryn, looking at the list here, I see that the same question is Mr. Kalamatiano. Do you accept that they should be discussed together?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u376	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u377	Good. So the eighth under number 945/20-7-2020 is to be discussed and a topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The health care units of Elias excluded from the call for posts for qualified physicians of the ESS industry". Mr. Callammaine, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the health crisis is present and a second wave of expansion of the coronary is expected to occur in the coming months. Elijah's nursing units were tested a lot by the coronary. We even had the first dead man in the country from the coronary to Elias. The need to fill positions, in particular, medical staff in the nursing units of Elias, have been described in repeated questions to you. I am referring, for example, to the Pathological Clinical Tower, where the organic positions are currently nine qualified pathologists and nine qualified. There are currently two pathologists serving in the Pathological Clinic of the Tower Hospital and two others who have been transferred from Amaliada. I mean, the problem you understand is huge. Both pathological clinics cannot function simultaneously with huge deficiencies. You have recently approved the notice of eighty-two qualified ESS doctors throughout Greece, twenty-five of which belong to the 6th RES from the nursing units of Elias. Unfortunately, none of them are predicted for the medics of Elijah who have huge deficiencies. It was mentioned earlier that six permanent doctors are specifically provided for in the Molla Health Centre. There is nothing for Elijah about these huge deficiencies. At the same time, you have not announced your plan to renew contracts of contractors serving in nursing establishments. These are skilled staff who offered important services during the pandemic, and their stay at work is essential. Questions are therefore specific: Why have the medical units of Elias left out of the proclamation of permanent doctors? What you intend to do, concerning the immediate support of permanent doctors of our nursing establishments and, above all, what you will do to renew contracts of contractors serving in nursing establishments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u379	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members who are sure that their interest in their constituency and in the region's sanitary units is sincere. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the upgrading of the ESS does not think it is the result of the coronary juncture but of the design and decision-making of the government. And, obviously, we will continue to support both hospitals and health centres with new staff, depending on the needs of each health region, stressing at this time, for good reasons, as you can see, in island Greece. Indeed, Mr Katrin, we have called an eighty-five position of permanent doctors now, with the aim of strengthening the health structures that are facing very serious and long-term staffing problems. However, as I have explained to you, the forty-nine positions of these concern and will go to our islands. Others will probably be proclaimed. You understand that in eighty one places it was not possible to include all hospitals in the country, and in some cases the needs were more urgent in order to ensure the proper functioning of the ERC. And since you have asked me, I directly reply that yes, we will, of course, look at the reinforcement not only of the Tower Hospital but also of any other nursing establishments not included in this eighty-one post notice. However, I would like to remind you, to see what comes from the past, and what has happened in the recent past, that we have the notices - be careful, we have often discussed with the previous leadership about this, and how long the process can be - of 2018 twenty-two permanent doctors involved in the Tower Hospital. For nine of them, the appointment procedure has already been completed, one of them being at the signature stage, three being in the control of practices in order to proceed with appointments, eight being in the expectation of notification of practices and one being barren. Moreover, in April, we called thirteen permanent doctors for the same hospitals. The automated list of candidates has already been posted and the process of checking documents by the boards will immediately be initiated. Last March we approved by ministerial decision the recruitment of sixteen subsidiary doctors for the Tower Hospital. Two others are already in office, and two others are waiting for their assignment. That's it for the Tower Hospital. We have repeatedly spoken as a political leadership of the Ministry of Health, and I have told you that if either you or any of the other actors in the county, from a position of responsibility or from no, he can find for the extraordinary situation even a doctor with a 'block', EUR 2 000 duty free and inappropriate, to place in specific places in the hospital, we will accept it at the same time. Now, for the Amalada Hospital, ladies and gentlemen, from previous notices, the appointment of two permanent doctors has been completed. One is being signed and five are expected to notify the minutes. Total: eight places. Also, at the Hospital in Krestena, the notification of practices for four permanent posts of doctors is expected. And in this time of pandemic and the announcements you heard, we did bring to the National Health System more than five thousand health doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel. I have already explained that, on the basis of the Prime Minister's mandate, these nurses who were recruited as subsidiarys within COVID and the previous ones - they are some two and a half thousand nurses - will be given the same moleculosis so that they remain permanently in the National Health System. We are doing what we need to do for OSCE workers in various positions of responsibility within the National Health System, in order to keep them and, indeed, we are looking, ladies and gentlemen, at the conversion of the positions of subsidiary doctors into curators II - it is not exactly a conversion, it is a statement of positions - so that they can remain in the National Health System and our colleagues. And they are also the permanent doctors who come to the IAS process that I explained. So this whole process, I think, will strengthen the National Health System. I would like to say that there is no second or third velocity, no more. There is our respect, attention and care for all the health institutions in the country. You are doing well and you are asking your questions, and I would say in the context of strengthening hospitals in the county to work together, so that we can also have locally and for the immediate reason that I told you - the anthropogeography you best know - the best possible result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u382	Minister, you have told us too many numbers, and if a citizen of Elijah had the opportunity to follow this debate, he would think that there is a mistake. If I have correctly noted what you have mentioned to us, more than twenty-five doctors will be appointed on the basis of the notices. Of course there's a detail. You did not tell us exactly when this process would be completed. Because you know much better than I do that the time elapsed from the call to the end of the crisis in the new way that is being done is too long, and it has been shown that the system is time-consuming, and perhaps it should be revised, and the way in which this process is being done, because it spends too much time on average two to two and a half years. So I retain what you say about the positions of both the hospital of the Tower and Amaliada and the Kresteans. So far, we haven't seen it and we're waiting to see when it's going to happen. But I'll tell you something, Minister. Since we accept that there is a problem with attracting medical staff, the Ministry of Health's political leadership should seriously consider changing the category of zone belonging to the hospitals of Elias to give incentives to attract permanent medical staff. Since we see that there is no interest in other areas in changing the area of Elias Hospitals in notices. Secondly, you will also allow me to say that by reading the pre-publishment of the distribution of posts in the 6K notice concerning staff in hospitals throughout the country, the hospitals of Elias are still missing again in hospitals with regard to nursing staff. There is only one dietary and one mechanic's location, while in the hospitals of Achaia we have seven MOs and two IPs, Elias stays apart from the medical staff with eighty-one seats, and from the nurses' staff, from the 6K notice, as one area doubles its population in the summer, but has no medical and nursing staff. We have not yet seen the permanentization of the nursing staff, which, if I am not mistaken, is a commitment by the Prime Minister himself to the staff hired during the Coronovirus period. You said something about auxiliary medical staff. Mr. Kontozamanis had said about converting to permanent curators II, you say about a proclamation that will give them moulation. But we have to look at it - because, you know, when it's been two months and we don't see it, we're suspicious and that makes sense - and we don't have to live up to the situation of moving personnel from a hospital to a hospital in the county. For example, from the Centre for Health of Andritsina, the only pathologist serving in a historical mountainous area, moved to the Hospital of Pyrgos and left the area without a doctor. And other such laughing things happen in the Prefecture of Elijah. And I am sorry, Minister, but despite the fact that I do not want to question your intentions, because I have known you since we were serving the School of Public Health in the same enthusiasm, I have to say that you do not convince me of your answers, because you do not tell me when the procedures of doctors will be completed and you do not clearly tell me - I imagine the colleague - when you will be calling permanent medical staff, as you did with the other hospitals of the 6th Ministry. I would like you to tell us some specific timetables, that "I will be in September in hospitals of Elias and in October I will conclude all of what I told you about the twenty-fifth positions of medical staff". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you told us that, in 2018, there were indeed calls for permanent doctors to be recruited to health care units, and you mentioned some procedures under way to fill these posts. So you have to tell us a specific timetable, when you finally expect these procedures to be completed and where these doctors should be placed at Elijah's nursing units, where the shortcomings are so great and so necessary this staff are. You should also tell us what you intend to do about the notices from now on, because these were launched by the previous government, by the SYRIZA government since 2018, there are some recruitments - especially what will happen if these posts are not paid. For example, if there are few places in the pathological clinic of the tower nursing unit, there will be no interest in being appointed doctors there. More positions will create other data and it will be more attractive to fill the positions and accept these positions from doctors. Also, as my colleague said, there is also a need for a change in the zone category and for incentives specifically for Elias to be placed and accepted by doctors. It should also be clear that especially for Elias should be included in the future planning to fill positions of both medical and nursing staff. The shortcomings are too great - I mentioned before - at the hospital hospital unit of the Tower, especially in pathological, as well as in Amaliada and Krestena. Also, Andritsina, Gaston and others health centers have too many staff shortages. We would also like you to tell us what is going on with the 2K notice on nursing staff. There were some places where they were declared. We don't know what's happened to nursing staff yet. Also, one final question about the Kristen Nursing Unit. It's on the way to the psychosocial rehabilitation facility. The tender documents were received and the project is in the final phase of financing. If you have any information, tell us what you intend to do about it, because it is really very important that the procedure for the Crestena Nursing Unit and its operation as a psychosocial rehabilitation unit go ahead. All bodies, nursing units, hospital administrations, medical clubs, local government, all citizens of Elias are waiting today to hear some specific commitments you have made, both for the schedule for the implementation of the outgoing recruitments with previous invitations to medical, mainly, staff, and what is the planning for the integration of nursing units in future notices to fill posts of both medical and nursing staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u385	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. Ladies and gentlemen, listen. I accept that we can hold a debate across borders - although I consider the AACC to be a great conquest - on how we can speed up procedures. Because - as you can see - positions are declared barren, there is a procedure by the judges, by the AACC. There is, of course, our own effort through an electronic platform to reduce time. Times are going to fall too much that way. I announced it at the beginning of the year. But there's also a pandemic and everything moves dynamically. The procedures I have mentioned are procedures that have gone ahead and will be completed. From there, however, you should know that everything is prioritised, is categorised by the everyday life that we live on. The aim is obviously a National Health System to protect and support people, patients, to save human lives. I understand the need for the county. With a very good attitude toward you, my fellow Members may be able to find solutions together. As I travelled to almost all the major hospitals and to small regional hospitals in the spring, and now in the summer months I try to travel to all hospitals, health centres, regional hospitals on the islands, so that I can see what the issues are about to hear, and so on, I would tell you that the way in which the islands are handled first and foremost, Mr Colleague, should go back to the microscope, and possibly take into account and find ways of doing such a way that we cannot support regional hospitals - which, in my view, are doing a very important job - with posts of fellow doctors and other specialists, such as nurses and paramedical staff and so forth, so that they are not declared atrocious and can finally do so. Why be careful, it's not just the quantity. Many things have each of them political leaders tried in the past. For example, "Give a higher grade from curator II to curator I" or stay four years there and then you can go to another place of personalization in another hospital. It is also the economic issue many times too. I would say - I agree to do so together, there is nothing selfish about the Ministry of Health - to find ways to ensure that the Greek region and the islands that are, in my view, a strong advantage, rather than a disadvantage for the country, are strengthened and supported in such a way that they do not inadvertently or on the basis of the needs that any problem can be tackled on a timely basis, but that it should be legislated so as to be able to be a solution on a lasting basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the debate of the third under No 939/17-7-2020 on the first question of Members of Parliament B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Health, on 'Provisions and provisions for increasing cases of COVID -19'. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, lately both news and the information provided by the state, we are aware of a rapid outbreak of coronary cases in our country, Greece. It seems that this outbreak, Minister, is directly related to the opening up of the borders for our tourism, which was to a certain extent necessary, we are not saying no. It also seems that because it relates to the opening of borders, the vast majority of the new cases the country acquires are imported, i.e. coming from abroad rather than from Greece. We, as Mera25, Minister, have even warned you in time since March of the risk of a second wave of the coronary, and have asked you early to take measures to shield our national health system, namely, to recruit thousands of doctors on permanent contracts of indefinite duration, i.e. on permanent recruitment. We have also asked you to recruit many more health workers and, of course, we have asked you from March systematically and coordinate to carry out the most massive tests. I would even say, as a parliamentary representative, that millions of tests will have been carried out, not thousands. At the same time, specific questions arise concerning the new epidemiological observation regime. Minister, they reach our ears, in particular, all the rumours, that tourists come by their own hand to do the COVID -19 test if they prove positive are not added to the cases announced by the Greek state. We want an answer on this. There is also insufficient information, as to how many new cases are related to previous and how many are ‘orphan’. Information that - as you know better than me - is extremely critical for the traceability of COVID -19. Now, the questions are specific, Minister, and in order not to eat any more time, I address them by reading them: At the level of alternative scenarios, what are the concrete measures and what are the specific provisions designed for the possibility of a second wave of pandemic, especially if this non-genesis appears in the middle of summer and tourist season? Secondly, in what way - as I have said before - are cases counted and divided into imported or not? Is there a differentiation depending on whether a tourist comes automatically for a test or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u389	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, always noble and gentlemen in your positions, thank you very much for the question. It's key and very important. I think we have seen samples of writing since the end of January about how much we believe in prevention and action early in the year, so that we can support the National Health System and the Greek society. I would like to remind you that several steps forward and with strong reflexes and in relation to all the other European countries, we have created a mechanism of this kind involving the EKRD, the EKRD, the reference hospitals, our scientists, the Committee of the twenty-eight scientists who are leading. I answer that way to a part of your question. There's no doubt about it. These are the people who are responsible for science, consult almost daily. The common component of many aspects and a wide-ranging discussion of their sciences and their recommendations is the one that comes as yeasts to the Ministry of Health and the Government and the decisions are taken. So before we even had a case in Greece, we created such a mechanism, which has yielded to a very high degree. You have recognized it, too, and thank you very much for that. I would like to remind you that several stages were followed. It has followed a stage of opening for our society. We opened the schools, the sanitary shops, the businesses, the Greek public, the movements from county to district and from region to region. After 1 June and 15 June we opened flights from abroad, which we testified. On June 1st, fewer. On 15 June and at the airport in Macedonia. Soon after 1 July flights from abroad took place on multiple destinations. And all this has become merciful, carefully and by a method. That is why - as you can see - in relation to other neighbouring countries - we cannot say that they are on the other side of the world and have another climate - or the other European countries obviously are in a much better situation. You do well and you worry and we worry and we are vigilant. So let me tell you that this is a dynamic situation. New data emerges every day and we evaluate them. We are adapting our policy accordingly. I want to tell you that obviously, there is - we're abstaining - plan B. This concerns local lockdown, individual corrections, PCR possibly in more tourists or compulsory. The Committee of Experts shall examine them on a daily basis. Although for the test, I would like to inform you that the policy proposed by our scientists has been vindicated. Other countries have been raped to make rapid test of doubtful quality of many millions and have been ravaged by it, with thousands of lives being lost unfortunately. So she wants a lot of attention to what you're doing for a test and what you're doing. I think it is up to us to see if we have a simple increase and avoid a second wave right now. I would tell you how, in everything that's about the samples and whether it's from abroad or from the inside, the mechanism is specific. No one's interfering. What comes here and is controlled, as soon as it's positive, is registered. Traces immediately, from their relatives, after a first cycle, in a second cycle, we see the level of transmission to symptomatic or asymptomatic and are recorded. Everything is done transparently, and everything is announced, to that extent, that there is no overcommunication. Especially for our local communities and islands, we don't want to do any damage to our tourism, obviously. We are therefore trying to have a reasoned measure, a balance between what we are announcing, not to put too much pressure, which in any case exists in closed societies and, at the same time, scientifically and documentedly, to be able to control the disease.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you too, Minister, for always being here, to respond to a pandemic and a great deal of work. I'd like to tell you something. I understand your answer well, I guess. You mean that tourists who come on their own way to perform tests if they come out positive, count and be announced. The second and final part of your answer is a little foggy for me. In other words, I do not know exactly what you mean by saying that 'to avoid harming our islands, perhaps.' That's a little vague. You mean there might be someone who has a coronary and never find out? I imagine everything can be legitimate, but I would like you to make it clear exactly what you mean. I would like to tell you what the central, the dominant issue is about the possibility of a coronary retreat either now or in the autumn and even on a worse scale than we were, and precisely because of this - I do not deny it, I do not do any micropolitical - of the timely measures taken by the government and for which we have congratulated you as Merra25. Yes, we did. We had a lot of drinks. But we're afraid it might not be like this the second time, and we think it's Mera25 that the key point, Mr. Minister - you're a doctor and you know it - is the doctors. So it seems here from the information I have, both from the doctors' trade union and from SCAI, that they are elements officially announced by SCAI, which are certainly not a left-wing or pro-left channel - that four hundred thirty are all the auxiliary doctors who have been hired. They seem to have not been hired under an indefinite contract. These are data from the doctors' trade union organization and SCAI, published by SCAI. Also, about three and a half thousand are adjunctive other health workers. They say, then, that the doctors - SKAY does not say so, but that the doctors - that this is dropping in the ocean, since before the pandemic our national health system was missing five thousand permanently qualified doctors and twenty - five thousand other sanitaries, according to official - beware of - organograms in 2012, the state organograms. According to doctors, eight and a half thousand were missing and thirty - five respectively. But I'm telling you, the 2012 state organograms that say those numbers I told you about. Also, it appears that the operating MF beds, in fact, are not more than seven hundred ten. It also seems that these beds are already suffocating in the ICUs with incidents of other morbidity, i.e. from the previous ones. We are not saying that there can be miracles in one day, that there can be five thousand or ten thousand, but what, my Minister, if the virus is incubating now or in October? We should, as Mera25, have already tripled the ICMs, taken them to three thousand or four thousand. I know there are no miracles, but we are very concerned about this. That's what I wanted to say and I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u393	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President, as I thank you, Mr President. I read exactly the piece about domestic and offshore cases, so I don't get misunderstood. The cases of COVID -19 are distinguished in imported and domestic, depending on whether patients were exposed to the virus in a foreign country or in Greece. Given that the incubation time of the coronary ranges from one to fourteen days, the introduction is considered to be the case that the virus was fourteen days before the outbreak of symptoms of the disease outside Greece, regardless of whether the check was carried out at a gateway of the country or a patient selection laboratory. Finally, as far as cases are concerned, the transmission source of which is not known from the outset, so for this period EGE and Civil Protection have been conducting in-depth traces with a view to avoiding the spread of the disease and defending public health. I also want to tell you about the recruitments and the ICMs. What you're putting in is crucial. We managed, within three months and in the middle of a coronary, to make more than five thousand recruitments. Five thousand recruitments very important for the National Health System. It is useless to go back to the restrictive budgetary policies and say how many difficulties it has had and how much need for support it has. In such a short period of time, so many recruitments have never been made. I also replied before to our colleagues, I will say again to you, that these people who fought, the nurses, the subsidiary and those who were hired before will be permanently resident in the National Health System and that the conversion of subsidiary doctors into curators will be calculated, so that they will also stay. Although we all know that they have specific time through signature, I am talking about our fellow Members and colleagues, or other specialists or other staff who have been hired through OAS, there is an attempt to find a way through the Ministry of Labour or through the NSRF to stay for some time as well. I also want to tell you that there has been a small miracle here. To reach five hundred and sixty-five positions in intensive treatment units or MCAs in a thousand-seven-to-seven-to-seven-to-seven-to-six months - may not have to cover 20% of them from COVID - this is very important. What else did we do in the middle of a crisis? Because the crisis, the coroner's not over. We told you that by the end of the year there would be a thousand and two hundred ICUs. Permanently, a dowry to the National Health System, with the code 45 million euros for the payment of doctors, nurses and other staff, with this staff permanently staying in hospitals and paid by the donation of Stavros Niarchos Foundation and five years of training for all this staff and after supplies of the Greek public and private individuals with new monitors, with new respirators, with new beds and all the technological equipment needed to carry out the work that we want. So, we're gonna have technology for the new ICUs, and we're gonna change the old ICUs on the basis of what we have. So, at the end of this period, we will have a thousand two hundred permanent ICUs, we will have the others, Mr Colleague, the ones we have turned into - heart surgery, etc. - in MA and ICUs this time period, if and if necessary. I repeat that we have separated the incidents into COVID and non COVID. We sent contracts for non-COVID cases to private hospitals so that there would be no impurity with people with low immune systems, because you understand that the consequences would be disastrous. Of course, our ITHs are not just for the coronary. I explained before, unfortunately, that we have other sad foundations, such as in the trajectory, for example, that you see every summer on our islands, hearts, brains and other needs. I said that unfortunately - the Prime Minister said - it is regrettable that one of the greatest ruffles - the needs of post-multipleism was 'find me a bed in the intensive care unit for my relative, who is in danger of losing his life'. I believe that this will be a very big case for the National Health System. You do well to ask. There is no cause for concern. In fact, you found the Timing, the momentum. Even today, we signed the agreements for the fifteen hospitals and thirty-seven and fourty-four beds of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. So permanently added things. The President of Parliament has informed me that within the next few days the agreement will also be signed with the Greek Parliament - Mr Vice President, thank you very much once again for this - for the fifty beds of METH at the "Salvation". It is huge to offer the Greek Parliament to the National Health System. They will be implemented within seventy calendar days. They proceed with private donations and the 11 beds in the State General of Nice. You see that although we have many other things, which are pressing and which we need to find solutions, we are moving on with what we are committed to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u395	The first question under number 937/17-7-2020 will now be discussed in the second cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on "Except for one of the two radiation therapies of the University General Hospital of Larissa (PGN)". Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to raise a quite serious issue today, which will also take a threatening dimension, particularly in the midst of new increased health needs, caused by the pandemic, and I would really like to call for your commitment to a concrete and strict organizational resolution plan. The University General Hospital of Larissa had until recently two radiation treatment machines, serving the cancer patients of all the Thessaloniki Prefectures, as well as also of the neighbouring ones. However, Minister, for three weeks the second radiotherapy at the University Hospital has been out of service. The information we had from the hospital administration was that this machine was being repaired, waiting for suitable spare parts. However, it has now been announced that due to the past history of the machine, its spare parts cannot be found on the market and so the machine will not be repaired. All this time, therefore, when the radiation therapeutic machine is out of service, dozens of Magnesia cancer patients suffer an incredible suffering, as they were informed about the cancellation of their scheduled dates for radiotherapy because of this problem. This anguish, Minister, as you can see, is increasing, because the second machine, what I said to you before it has been permanently broken, without any provision being made for the supply of a new machine. I think you, too, do not forget that in the middle of a pandemic, in the middle of a coronary, the fact that those people who already have a burdened organism and a vulnerable immune system should cancel and delay their radiotherapy. This has raised their anxiety too much, but also their desperation - I would say - Minister. The only solution that exists so far for the cancer patients of Magnesia is either to go for radiation treatments to other hospitals in Thessaloniki and Athens with a high natural financial burden, but also to further physical and mental suffering. Therefore, on the basis of the picture I have given you, Minister, I think the questions raised are two serious and very simple: The first is whether you intend to provide the University Hospital of Larissa with a new and modern radiation therapeutic machine. The second and most serious thing in my opinion, because it will also solve the issue of the movement of people from Magnesia, is whether you will also supply the Achillopoulia Hospital with a corresponding radiation therapeutic machine so that the cancer patients of Magnesia are not forced to go to Larissa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u397	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, the oncology patients have proved to be our top priority since the beginning of our term of office. Their immediate and unobtrusive access to treatments, but also medical treatment, was my concern from the outset. That was why we then - if you remember - interventions to facilitate the distribution of tumor drugs, changes in the full-day operation of hospitals with the aim of reducing the waiting list for radiation treatments and speeding up procedures for the supply of hospitals with the latest technology. Indeed, as you rightly said, at the Larissa University Hospital on 7 July, one of the two linear accelerators of the hospital was dismantled and an attempt is being made to find spare parts which cannot be secured by the construction company. It's a very old machine. However, despite the fact that - I would like to correct you, if I may - a linear accelerator is out of service, indeed even though he left a doctor thanks to the friendly - I stress - efforts by the staff of the department have not been reduced to a minimum by the number of patients serving daily in the other modern linear accelerator of his hospital that was installed in 2017. This is evidenced by the hospital's evidence that six days before the failure of the old machine was served daily on average seventy-eight incidents, while six days after the machine was damaged eighty-five to eighty-six incidents, i.e. more incidents. Therefore, the problem had no impact on patients. They didn't risk staying without treatment. However, there is and you are right to put it. We, in cooperation with the healthcare district and the hospital, have taken all the necessary steps to address this problem, so that at the Larissa University Hospital, our fellow citizens, patients can continue to receive quality health services. The hospital has already asked for a new linear accelerator, as the one who broke, as I explained to you, is in end of life condition, i.e. it has substantially completed the time that it can work. Installed in the hospital in 1996. So, for Larissa's hospital, we'll see what we'll do about a new linear accelerator. If you want us to work together on this, we'll do it very happyly. As far as Volos Hospital is concerned, I would like to tell you that it never operated a radiation therapy machine at Volos Hospital and was not even in the institution of the hospital. It is considered that, as part of an amendment to the institutions of all hospitals in the country, which promotes the Ministry of Health to include Achilopoulos and has a radiotherapeutic oncology section.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am not used to it, but I would like to give you some figures and, if I may, make a correction. The Oncology Department of Achilopoulos Hospital of Volos holds four hundred and fifty chemos every month in approximately three hundred patients. At the external hospitals of Achilopoulos Hospital Volos are considered about three and a half thousand oncology patients per year. So from the picture I quote, it has been created in recent years - I think - a mature demand and an urgent need, to create a Volos Hospital of Volos on the subject, but also to obtain a modern radiotherapy apparatus. Here, Minister, the correction is coming because I do not know if your service actors have informed you correctly. Already since 2017, we had launched together with the previous management of the hospital, as well as the Ministry of Health, the creation of an oncological clinic for Achilopoulos, as well as the strengthening of the volume section with further staff. On SYRIZA, Minister, the oncology department in Achilopoulos Hospital was manned with another permanent doctor oncologist, which was, as I told you, a chronic request from the people of Magnesia. So, right now, in the oncology department of Achilopoulos Hospital there are two permanent doctors and an adjunct. Fellowship - here is the correction, Minister - of this coordinated and coordinated effort, was, from the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health in March 2019, to approve the inclusion of an oncological clinic in the new organogram of Achilopoulos Hospital of Volos. What's going on today? One year later, today's leadership, not on your own responsibility, has not issued the necessary joint ministerial decision of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance to launch the creation of an oncological clinic. Minister, here today, because of what has happened at the University of Larissa, there is this big problem, leaving dozens of people in Magnesia uncovered. With my recent question three weeks ago, I informed you about this particular issue in Larissa. So what's the reality? Magnesia cancer patients are required to go to Thessaloniki or to Athens or to other cities or, Minister, in 2020, to an area with a secondary hospital with tertiary facilities to go to private hospitals and spend around 1,000 euros at a time. So what's the message, Minister, that the organized state emits to these people? It's that if you have money and you can pay for your moves, it's all right. But if you don't have one, what's going on? Should you go to Athens and Thessaloniki? At the time I informed you - a moment ago - that Achilopoulos has also the infrastructure to support the oncological clinic, it has been included in its organogram in SYRIZA, this organogram has been approved and for one year this necessary Ministerial Decision has not been adopted. I'm sorry, Mr. Kicilia. I know and recognize your pure intentions. I think, however, that this delay is unjustified. So you have the opportunity to give us a clear organizational chart. You said about the University of Larissa. Tell the times before you when it comes to creating an oncological clinic in Achilopoulos Hospital Volos, so that these people have not been subjected to suffering for many weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u401	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is no doubt that the National Health System is swept away where poverty begins and people cannot or do not have it. My service and my destination as Minister for Health is to serve first of all all these people who have no choice, respecting all our other fellow people who have a choice. It is therefore a national health system, hospitals, health centres and health services for all. So, I repeat that, when it comes to the problem of the hospital, I go to Volos first and say that there is a feeling that four and a half years about a certain political leadership was not able to get to March. Last minute, he was gonna sign it and he didn't sign it. It's okay. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I tell you that, as political leadership, we understand the need to have new organograms. A lot of it's been going back a long time. Others were the needs of our hospitals. Reassessment shall be carried out. In fact, when these are staggered organograms in hospital administrations, we give doctors, hospital organs, trade unionists in nursing services to start from the top - the creation and construction of a new organogram must be done. What you're saying wasn't there. There was no clinical department like that in Achilopoulos. Let's go create her. With regard to the permanent problem that arises, you understand that it is very important after the years of the crisis that we need a new modern technology of high health care machinery. It's something that's our first concern. I would say to you that this is a great opportunity on the part of the national health system of the great effort made by the country and has been successful in taking European funds and being able to take advantage of the digital health issue, on the subject of machinery, on the subject of the vision of a new 21st-century national health system. Apparently, the hospitals and the county can't miss it. On the contrary, it must be a key part of our strategy and its regular implementation, on the basis of this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question under number 935/16-7-2020 of a second question from the Athens Western Section of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The radzas were reappeared at the "Attica" Hospital, despite the danger it poses, because of the coronary, will not be discussed. The third question, with number 949/20-7-2010, will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on "You would be nursing a ranch in Attica" in the midst of a pandemic, Minister? Mr Arseni, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u404	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the essence of the topical question really is in the title. We have "Attiki", a hospital very important to all of Athens and not just West Athens. There is a ranch phenomenon that has been a matter of the past that has reappeared. We have the pictures of the Workers' Association, which show us the situation on July 14, 2020, with a terrible crowd, possibly patients with COVID and their escorts, along with doctors and nurses and other patients in ranch. In fact, there is a total lack of protection first of all from all the patients lying down and they can do nothing against exposure to their health at risk. The situation, as we have repeatedly described it, is as follows: Hospitals, even as important as Attica, without the necessary staffing, in a way that often exceeds 50%, that is to say only one doctor in three places. At the same time, we have asked you on several occasions and other things, in addition to the recruitment and strengthening of other regional hospitals, such as the "Saint Barbara" Hospital, which has come back from obscurity and depreciation due to the coronary, but continues to face terrible problems, with most doctors who are organically over there in the state of Nice, so this also fails to offer his services. For this reason, Minister, I invite you to commit to the two hospitals in the region, which are "Attica" and "Agia Varvara", to solve the problems, which in the first case are the recruitment of permanent doctors, not other contract staff, but permanent doctors for permanent emergencies and nursing staff. In the second case, for the "Agia Barbara" following the previous debate and the previous topical question, the solution of the town plan and the solution of its independence from the State General of Nice, so that he can make use of his own doctors in principle - most of which are bound by the State of Nice - and, secondly, he can extend and supplement his organizational programme by doctors and other permanent nursing staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u405	The Minister for Health will reply to this timely question, Mr Vassilias Kikilis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much. Colleague, obviously, the problem is not present, but time is short, it is due to two factors: firstly, that many patients prefer the choice of a university hospital, which offers very high-level health services. It is the only tertiary hospital for all of Attica's Lekadium when its newspaper is updated and partially covered by the hospital "Evangelism". As a result, about a thousand people come to each on-call. Therefore, you understand that such a large volume of incidents, which the Attica accepts, also entails the existence of ancillary beds during on-call hours, is logical. Dysfunctions exist in other Lecade hospitals. Here is a central design. The idea is to deal with them firearms or in a permanent, definitive and effective way. Of course, on-calls couldn't change in the middle of a coronary. You understand that. One cannot start with a new way of on-call, while the risk of a pandemic is at stake and we have to deal with a very critical public health issue. But, in our view, four axes should be calculated in changing newspapers. First, spatial planning changes, where necessary. Secondly, the correct distribution of beds that are inviting all hospitals. Thirdly, the best distribution of medical, nursing and other staff in the days and hours of on-call. Fourthly, and very importantly, the linking of the TENs, namely the emergency with the EAW. So I think this should be the cornerstone in trying to change newspapers centrally, and especially in Attica, when we do not have a huge public health risk to stand on us, such as the coronary. As far as direct action is concerned, I would like to say that we believe that the protection of workers and patients is first of all, so for the COVID you said, a special protocol, the minimisation of the visitor, compulsory use of a mask, intensification of controls, compliance with individual hygiene and protection measures are already being implemented. Because you put it and it is important and played a role - and played a role - the "Saint Barbara" in dealing with the COVID as a hospital, which supports our efforts, the design for the reopening of the "Saint Barbara" Hospital has started since the beginning of 2020. We made use of it in the pandemic as a COVID case care centre and extended the implementation time, based on the plan, which provides that it should support Attica as a hospital right now for possible cases. However, there is the plan, the full development, the modernisation of the artificial kidney unit, the establishment of a respiratory care unit, the strengthening of the functioning of certain external medical facilities, as I said, urology, dermatological, ophthalmological and microbiological. So you do well and raise the question because our will is that the "Agia Varvara" Hospital is an autonomous and specialized structure for dealing with patients of specific categories, while offering the residents of the area modern and quality health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u408	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I agree with your announcements on the 'Saint Barbara'. The problem is that there had been a timely question and that was where the announcements had been announced. More than a month ago, there was a timely question again and the same announcements were again announced. Now, after two weeks, they are again the same announcements and nothing has been accomplished. The concern is that, by decision of Mr Georgiadis, the hospital had actually been shut down and now the coronary has been reopened, but if your announcements are not implemented as long as this epidemic lasts - we hope it will end very immediately - I fear that we will again proceed with the closure scenarios of St. Varvara. I would therefore like to see progress, now that there is a need for the coronary, to see the chronic problems of the "Saint Barbara" really solved. The management can really be solved very easily in the middle of a coronary by being connected to the General State of Nice, but being able to have its own organogram, which means that the workers, who at least have organic positions in the "Saint Barbara", are owned and managed by the "Saint Barbara" and from there on, can see that the vacant posts are filled. Also, for the 'Attica' whatever we say, whatever the excuse is, it will not cease, Mr Minister, to be shocking and completely unacceptable - whatever side you may see - in a coronary reference hospital to have a ranch. I mean, next to the man who is hospitalized for whatever reason, for a car accident, for anything, to pass potential coronary cases. There is nothing that can justify this. It is not possible in the hallway of a reference hospital for a coronary to exist ranch. You need to solve this right away. It's not something that can wait and it's very important. Furthermore, since we are discussing health issues and the coronary, I would like - because we had had a debate before the coronary - to tell me whether you continue to believe, whether there are still privatisation plans, such as the one that existed for the Yannina and so on. for the Attica Hospital in particular. That is, if the thoughts of privatisation of infrastructure continue to exist and if you continue to embrace your statement then it is not important if the infrastructure is public, but access if it is public. I would really like to hear - from your experience - whether something has changed now, with the coronary, or continue to believe that hospitals can well be privatised as infrastructure, provided that citizens can have access to these new private infrastructures, more expensive for insurance funds and for them after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleague, I recognize that your interest in Attica Hospital is sincere. We got eighty-five people, in the middle of a coronary within three months. I explained why people prefer such a university hospital in order to visit it in the newspaper. A few days ago a major reform of primary health care was announced. I think that changing newspapers as I have explained, supporting and strengthening primary health care networks and in the area, the possibility of strengthening the hospital - it has already been done and will continue to be - and changing the on-call way will bring about what is desirable for me and you. I have already visited the Attica on several occasions. I know very well what's going on and what's not going on. Administrative and commander staff and doctors and nurses and other staff are making a very great effort. We'll look to deal with this. I told you, problems are hierarchy. The first problem right now, facing the country and the whole planet, is the coronary, so you know it leads to developments. Nevertheless, our immediate priorities are the way in which we will be able to help, so that it is not so great that the on-calls of people who come to Attica are not so great. One way and one thought is also in organised incidents through the EMCDDA. You understand that, on your own initiative, the entry of a citizen into a hospital cannot be banned, but perhaps another hospital, which will be able to visit with the "Attica" will be able to leave a burden above the "Attica" and go to the other hospital on the basis of the incidents that are intersected with the EAW. For the "Saint Varvara", which you said, I consider it to be a hospital with perspective, as well as the "Pamakaristos". They are hospitals, which can be used and helped. This has proved to be in the crisis. Now, you're coming back to something that things are clear about. Last time, you wanted a little blurred. I have nothing more or less to say about the actions of the Ministry of Health and Government in the middle of a coronary for the National Health System. As I have explained to you last time, I am the guardian of his free and public character and have explained to my previous colleague that horizontally and at the same time the National Health System begins where poverty starts, where people cannot or have not and owes the National Health System to be able to offer all these people. So I think you're breaking open doors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you both very much. We continue with the sixth under the number 948/20-7-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Support for mentally ills and those who need psychological support". Mr Balafa, good evening, good week. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u412	Minister, this topical question is part of an attempt to raise the major problems of mental health and, as far as possible, to address these issues with, of course, the major differences that we have in terms of strategy in particular, but also in terms of tactical ones. This topical question concerns the mentally ill people on a more timely basis, but it also concerns them and them - there are many - who have particular problems, in other words mental illnesses, because of the pandemic. These issues or illnesses or disorders have to do with incarceration, with fear, but also with occupational insecurity. It is also about unemployment, and in any case these people need special social, psychological support and support. Also relevant to the previous one is that this aid should be directed at the public basic structures of mental health, locally and centrally, issues of organisation, issues of mental potential, and reference is made to psychiatric sections of general hospitals, special mental hospitals, but also to community mental health units, primary mental health care. We are asking our questions, of course, aware of the difficulties on the one hand, but on the other hand, having an experience of the possibilities available, Minister. Because, for our part, you know that although our own four years were particularly difficult and we have managed to relaunch the boomed, because of the austerity of psychiatric reform policies, and at the moment there is a design with a depth and horizon of four years. So the questions are as follows, and the question becomes absolutely well-meaning, to find a way out: is there any plan in the logic of psychiatric reform? Is there a central and local strategic planning and I repeat, in the psychiatric section of the general hospitals and in the special psychiatric hospitals and in the community primary mental health care units? Relevant to the previous question is the question of the subdivided system of psychiatric on-calls, especially in Lefkanopod where there are the biggest problems, as well as the implementation of Law 4461 of 2017, which provided for and promoted administrative restructuring and the division of mental health services. Finally, not lastly, of course, it is, of course, who is, in general terms, to plan, plan your recruitment of qualified, mostly qualified medical staff and nursing staff. Our guide, Minister, is our view, our position, that investing in mental health is an investment in human dignity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u413	Thank you too, Mr Balafa. The Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kikilias, will answer. Mr. Kikilia, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u414	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. I would like to say that our views differ in what has happened over the last four years. I recognize the good intentions, though. I would like to say that I have not seen any progress in the sensitive area in fact in mental health over the last four years, because they have been accumulated and many problems. Indeed, Law 4461 of 2017 aims to rebuild the organisation of health services. But he had serious weaknesses. It has not been accompanied by a concrete implementation plan nor has it been politically supported, so that it will unfortunately remain inactive. The considerable funds provided for by the ESRB have now been allocated, Mr Colleague, inactive for four whole years. As regards the connections between mental health and primary care, i.e. with the TOMY, I think this was a brutal attempt, despite the fact that there were commitments and announcements from previous government and possibly good purposes, I say, for reorganising and serving psychiatric clinics in the hospitals in the country. But the situation has, in our view, remained stagnant, with serious problems, with the phenomenon of small asylum in hospitals more importantly. Finally, at the level of social care and social reintegration, the situation remained rather as much as it was, while there was a distribution of significant funds to operators, without planning and without control of the quality and efficiency of interventions. It is, in our view, an important reform and we are examining all the data. We want to see what went wrong. We do not want to repeat the same mistakes. In a short time, I will be here - I am committed to this - to present a comprehensive plan to address the problems and diseases that we have received from the previous political leadership. For example, our aim is to decouple the remaining years of mentally disabled patients. We want to start developing new structures in order to promote the waiting list in the OSH. It has been submitted by the Board of the Dementia Observatory and is considered by the Ministry for an additional list for the creation of the final stage of dementia and day centres. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Balafa, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u416	Because I like to be specific and not to say generic and to come out and something, I will insist on explaining ourselves: I do not question the intention. I doubt, however, that there is a concern or the necessary concern for what we call mental health. I do not know if it was impossible to have a plan so far on your part, but the fact is that it does not exist. We therefore insist on this, and we believe that there needs to be a plan, because until now there is no, and that is a very great shortage, particularly with the outbreak of mental illness and mental disorders at this time, because of pandemic. I don't want to compare what we did to some things or didn't do. I think we did a lot of things, but I don't want to quote them now. I would like to insist, however, once again on the question of hiring qualified personnel. It is not just the issue of recruitment. It is the issue of organisation, philosophy, strategy, but it is also the question of staff. It can't be the largest specialist psychiatric hospital in Dafni, I mean, the Athens Psychiatric Hospital, has such a shortage of qualified medical and nursing personnel. In particular, about thirty to forty doctors are missing and some ninety nurses from the Daphne. I have not mentioned the vulnerable groups at all, because it is a category of special role, special need and care, but I think that, more generally speaking, there needs to be a care and, above all, - I repeat and I am ending with it - to have a programming. In this direction of planning, we are ready to contribute to any consultation effort, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u417	Thank you very much, Mr Balafa. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for your position. We have strengthened - now I speak with evidence - the psychiatric clinics and psychiatric hospitals in the country already. The care for these people is obviously about promoting positions of psychiatrists and child psychiatrists. With the announcements we made to date, fifteen posts of psychiatric and psychiatric doctors and teenagers were included on the recruitment board. At the same time, this year, seven psychiatrists were placed in hospitals with old notices. Moreover, from January 1st to today, six psychiatric psychiatric doctors and twenty - six subsidiary doctors have been placed in hospitals in the country. I told you before, I repeat it now: As you see the Ministry of Health and his political leadership first does and then announces. I don't like communal wardrobes. I respect what you say. It's a great pleasure to work together, if you like. Psychiatric reform, in my view, cannot be in the leg. I told you that the previous political leadership - it is not a matter of controversy, unfortunately you know that we are all judged by our work - four years full, carried a very large part - if not all - of the NRP to psychiatric reform, but none of this was absorbed. I think this has given us too much concern. The way in which these structures were interconnected at primary level did not go ahead and the new structures did not go ahead. We need to see why this is happening. I think - in good faith - that there was a mood for work and an effort in this direction, but it did not succeed. We need to see what happened wrong, try not to make the same mistakes and create another strategy, which can bring about a measurable result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Minister. We move to the first question under number 5687/10-4-2020 of the reporting cycle of the MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition - Helena Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The operation of the Intensive Therapy Unit (IMU) at the General Hospital of Kilkis". Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question we are debating today has been tabled in writing by April and concerns the creation of a clinic at the Kilkis Hospital. She was never answered in writing, so today we bring her orally. Unfortunately, this is not a unique question about Kilkis Hospital, which has not been answered by the Ministry of Health. I've asked twice a question concerning the operating data, but also financial data from the Kilkis Hospital, as well as requests for documents. I know the hospital had answered, and the HR has answered, but these answers have never reached us from your ministry. Today, then, we are debating the question about the creation of an MDG. The request for documents to be filed on the hospital, if not answered, will be lodged and re-issued, because, Minister, we want evidence. We like to oppose evidence. Today's question is about the creation of an IF. It is good that this debate has been reopened. Of course, he opened up in difficult circumstances for the creation of ITH in hospitals throughout the country. He opened up in the middle of a pandemic. But it was understood that only the public health system can provide reliable health services. It is necessary to support and set up clinical ICUs in both the urban centres and the region. With regard specifically to Kilkis Hospital, it's a conversation that didn't start now. In fact, since 2017, in the proposal of an organisation that was then submitted to the Ministry of Health there is the establishment of a clinical ID with six beds. The questions we want you to answer here today, firstly, are whether the scientific committee, set up at the Ministry for the design of clinical ICUs throughout the country, continues to operate after the Nightmare Programme. So is it in your plans and the establishment of new clinics and not just in the urban centers? The Nearchus programme concerned mainly 15 hospitals in large urban centres. Is this about the province? What programming is there? What timetable is there for the implementation of the committee's proposals? Here too, Mr Minister, we must make a proposal to inform the House or the Committee on Social Affairs of the progress of the work of the committee headed by Mrs Cotanidou. It would be very useful to us. Secondly, the main question is whether the creation of an ITH at the General Hospital of Kilkis, the approval of the body submitted on SYRIZA, is in the plans of the new government? We want an answer from you because, as long as there is no official response from the Ministry, many people are plundering on this issue and the issue is raping. This is at the expense of the hospital, but also of the local population of Kilkis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos. I have a statement to this House before I give the Minister the floor. The Standing Committee on Education and Religious Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kikilis. Mr. Kikilia, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question. I answer directly. From 2017 until today, of course, it has been a long time. Therefore, the simple deposit of an organisation and the intention is good as intent is enough to do so. Still, it's okay, we'll do it. The medical equipment, beds, respirators, monitors and everything else is shown for the creation of the ICM, has already been approved by the Ministry of Health for the supply of equipment worth 650 thousand euros. Secondly, the tendering procedure for the supply of equipment is at the stage of the consultation of the technical specifications so that the competitive process can be completed. Our aim is - you can tell everyone, I personally authorize you - to work directly at the Kilkis Hospital and to find a solution to this time-consuming problem, which results in patients having to stay in hospitals of other counties. In addition, the supply process and hotel equipment for the ICU is under way, i.e. wardrobes, seats and everything else that health professionals need. These commissions are part of the Public Investment Programme. Speaking of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the committee, will the committee come here to the Committee on Social Affairs? Of course, the proposal is very nice and correct in order to analyse where we are and what remains to be done. Oh, no. The work of the Committee and the Ministry of Health is not completed with the noble sponsorship of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, for which we thank them very, very much. Already in the middle of a coronary, I remind you, more than a hundred permanent beds that the Ministry has carried out, it has the ability to reconvert those which it used in the middle of a coronary, but it will not do so, because I have explained to you that all the IMIs which have been programmed up to the number of thousands of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, which is the average of the European Union. These include the fifty, who were kind enough to give us a donation and thank you very much. The contract will be signed, because the competition has been completed. I was informed by the President of Parliament on Thursday, if I am not mistaken, that he would proceed within seventy working days. There will be other donations, but this is a system that goes and travels at the same time. So, wherever there is a commitment from the Ministry of Health that it will implement a PTH or MATH programme, this will be done with own resources. That's what you can say. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, on Thursday the Conference of Presidents was announced. Mrs Agathopoulos, you have three minutes at your disposal for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u424	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is true that there is a public investment programme of 5 million for medical and hotel equipment, which is gradually being implemented at Kilkis Hospital. In fact, I also have to submit to you amending decisions of the SYRIZA governance period, it is in 2016, 2017 and 2018, where the needs were updated and indeed, within these decisions, there are both METH beds and ICTH respirators, precisely because in the proposal of an organisation submitted by the administration, six ICTH beds were included for KILKIS hospital. But that is a question. You know very well, too, that beds alone or breathing alone can't work. You also said this in a previous question, if the hospital body does not change and a clinical IF is added to the new body, there is no possibility that it will work. So the questions we ask you are very clear and concern: will the hospital body change the next period to include, in particular, the clinical ICU, I say? Is there any provision in recruitment? I do not know if you have scheduled the recruitments, which we had budgeted for 2020 and when, but in there we would like there to be posts for the staff of the CVC. By the way, I'm telling you, Kilkis Hospital is currently suffering from reduced staff. If there are no permanent staff posts and for the pathological clinic, it will be forced to close the next period. So questions are specific. Will you declare new posts of permanent staff, those already budgeted by the previous government? Will the organization change? In view of the new critical period, coming from September, will we have the timetable or the implementation of what you say? Because, Minister, criticism in the previous administration is good, of course, you forget what you left us. At that time, Mr. Georgiadis said that "I may close hospitals" and we were the ones who kept them open. So four and a half years aren't enough, as you say. So you forget what you left us. Today you are the head of the Ministry of Health, you have all responsibility for the timetable, but also for implementing it. We really don't care if it's your term of office or ours. We, what we are interested in, are indeed to implement this commitment to the establishment of a clinic ITH at Kilkis Hospital and to operate our hospital for the benefit of local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u425	Thank you very much, Mrs Agathopoulos. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u426	'To the benefit of local society'. I'm sure that's what you're serving. There's no doubt at all, I'm sure. However, I have to note - and this is why other projects are very different - that in 2017 it was forwarded to the 4th Ministerial Council of the hospital, which approved the reform of the Agency. "...Includes, among other medical and other staff for the ICM." That's not what I saw either. There was no development then, in 2017, 2018, 2019. Well, yeah, we're going to change the organism and it's not going to open up IFO or MAN if we don't have all of it, and with his medical and nursing staff this department, so it can work. I don't know what happened in the past. From now on, the way in which we move towards expansion of health facilities will be that. Machinery, doctors, paramedical staff, building, education, digitization, and moving forward. What happened, which you mentioned a lot about the past, that there are buildings somewhere else there are machinery, somewhere else we are spared by doctors and nurses, or somewhere there is a donation for an educational programme and we are going to look for the others in the future, is not an appropriate way of developing a national health system. However, the good intentions, my colleague, I recognize them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u427	Thank you both very much. The third question with number 6623/19-5-2020 will be discussed in the circle of questions - petitions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Koumunist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Determined-time workers at Drama Hospital". Mr. Delia, you've got two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u428	Thank you. Minister, we transfer the agony because of the industrial uncertainty that a number of workers experience in feeding, cleaning and storage at the hospital in Drama. Will you tell me now: are they the only ones in these services in the hospitals in the country who live this uncertainty? Oh, no. On the occasion of a recent visit to Drama and to the hospital, however, and with the information from the club there, we move here to answer the question tabled, of course as a written question, but it was not answered - we do not know why - and it was re-issued as a timely one. Thirty-three employees in cleaning, then, Minister, nine bankers and seven guards, forty-nine, that is, workers, forty-nine families are hiding behind them, workers who were hired via ASP in 2018 with a two-year contract. The contract of these people expires in December 2020 for clean-up workers and the following month in January 2021 for workers in feeding and storage. They expect, Minister, of you, that these nine workers and their families listen to what is going to happen. Will they be on the path of unemployment? Will they wait for any extension of their contract, or will they wait for which contractor to get the cleanliness of Drama Hospital, so that they can go there to apply, so that they can continue to work? We are, of course, talking about people who have been working for twenty years, several of them at Drama Hospital. From the information we have from the club, the hospital administration considers their presence absolutely essential for the operation of the hospital. So we are asking you this is the question of the timely question, what your Government will do, so that these workers can continue to work, not with this precarious employment, stress and anxiety, as we have said, but with a permanent and stable employment relationship and with full employment, wage and insurance rights. In short, Minister, we ask you directly: will you permanentize all these workers in all hospitals in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u429	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. The Minister for Health will answer Mr Vassilias Kikilias, who has three minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u430	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. In fact, in the General Hospital of Drama in December next year, the two-year individual contracts of a fixed term private law expire, FORTH, following a communication by the AACC of thirty-two employees on cleanliness. Also, in January 2021, seven guards, ten bankers and three cooks expire. All these conventions, you and our fellow citizens know that they were of a certain amount of time. Workers from the outset knew that there is a specific expiry date for their contracts. So, it's certain that we and we don't hold them in a hostage. However, on the basis of what you say - and I hear that, ensuring permanent and stable work for the workers - you know that on the basis of e.g. 164/2004 it is illegal and that the IPO contracts are not converted into an indefinite period of time. Why isn't that what we're talking about? Convert their contracts in indefinite time. There is the 164/2004 banner. The hospital cannot, of course, meet its needs with permanent staff provided for by the Agency, because these posts are covered, but they are not enough. Therefore, what we are going to do to ensure the proper functioning of the General Hospital of Drama, like other nursing establishments that face the same problem, is to consider in time new contracts with ISPI staff recruitment via ASPI or to go to subsidized staff recruitment from the tables, which you well know exist in the 4th Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u432	Minister, instead of being publicly wondering what you're going to do, tell us what you're going to do, what you intend to do. Or one or the other. Not to hear it, but to hear from these workers, who, I assure you, are following the question at the moment. You said in your reply, Minister, that it is not your fault and that the workers knew that they signed such a contract, that is, they knew that they were going to work for two years. Let me ask you a question. Did they have any other choice? You left them another choice? Not you personally, but your parties, your governments, your politicians. Did they have another choice? Of course not. It was the only choice they had left. We won't blame them on top of what they're responsible for because they chose to work for two years. They did very well. And for a year. What should people do? You said that it is illegal to convert these fixed-term contracts into fixed-term contracts and to ban them from the presidential decree, which is, of course, based on the constitutional requirement of Article 103. Some time ago, however, the constitutional review took place, and it was when the JRC tabled a provision to the vote, which would amend and abolish this constitutional ban on the conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite ones, because that is what this is all about. What attitude did New Democracy take? He said 'no'. What attitude did SYRIZA take? He said 'no'. What attitude did the Change Movement hold? He said 'no'. It is the same attitude that kept these parties nineteen years ago when this provision was then voted on in 2001. All right, then the Change Movement was called PASOK, and SYRIZA was called a Coalition. It was the same attitude. Therefore, do not now invoke a provision that you have put forward, because it has not fallen from heaven to prevent them from being permanent. These workers, Minister, I think they are disappointed with your reply. I hope you'll make it clear in your dentistry. These workers have provided and provided their services. People are torn apart in critical areas of a hospital's work. We are talking about cleanliness, about feeding, about keeping, and what this means in times of pandemic that we are currently living in and having, in the meantime, acquired most of them and a very long period of work experience. In any case, in order to close it, Mr Minister, you, but also your Government, did you not call them all the heroes of the pandemic? "Heroes" you uploaded them and "heroes" you download them. So how do you treat them now? In the words, of course, heroes, because in practice, you tell them that they are fired and that you cannot do anything about them. What we want to say is that this kind of work - I will close, Mr President - just like the cleanliness of a hospital, why are we talking about the cleanliness of a hospital - we understand that? - for feeding, keeping, it's not seasonal work. It's not like picking up the olive and the peach. These workers need more hospitals and they need more, as they need in all hospitals, not only at Drama Hospital. As far as we understand from your answer and from the overall policy of your Government - like the previous one, which of course has enormous responsibilities for this situation which has maintained and perpetuated it by playing various games - the only way for these workers is to organise and fight to impose their right to permanent and stable work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is no doubt that your concern for our people is honest. I also think that because projects are speaking properly, more than words and declarations, the Ministry of Health is considering the possibilities it has for these people. I just mentioned what the President-in-Office is saying on the basis of what you are telling me about their permanentity. And in other hospitals and in other healthcare regions, they have done the right thing in the middle of a coronary, for example, for our four thousand fellow-mans of the OAED of various specialties, who have all anticipated that they will be leaving the National Health System for a year already and we are looking at how we will extend this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u435	And they end up in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u436	That is what I am trying to explain, that within the framework of the law and the constitution, the leadership of the Ministry of Health will do everything possible. In addition, I would like to tell you that with these more than five thousand fellow health professionals - doctors, nurses and other staff - the ways in which they have been hired are dealt with in various specialities - first of all in nurses - so that they can stay in the National Health System. I explained in detail to colleagues in the previous questions which have become the way in which the Ministry of Health and the political leadership are working on this. However, because you're asking me something specific, I'm telling you that's the law, that's the presidential decree. Our will is this and we have proved it so far and in the midst of a crisis. I think that the way in which they have been included in all decisions, for their benefit always, all health workers and not even cleaners and bankers, and so on, shows the will of the Ministry of Health of not separating all those people who have fought in the middle of a coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Minister. The last question, Minister, before we release you. We are going to the second with number 6854-27-5-2020 in the current question of the cycle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for a modern and serious policy for the development of public health". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after nine questions, to complete very briefly, on my protagonists, accept what I propose to get you some rest. Ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned the important role played by the National Health System and this role has been played during the pandemic. It's a conquest of postpopulation. However, it is not as we would like it to be in hospitals and in all health structures. It really needs a plan for upgrading, regeneration of the ESS, which concerns both the structures and the units, of course, its staff with the necessary staff and the supply of modern technology. My question, however, concerns a specific issue regarding public health, and I think that if I could say it in two series, it is the functioning and medical staffing of the country's public health services at regional and central level. As you know, the old powers of the legal service today have the region and, of course, the centre operates, in addition to EGE and the Ministry's services, as well as the Pasteur Institute and other central structures. They are primarily responsible for dealing with small and large outbreaks of prevention. Of course, the government must, on the basis of the experience of pandemic, take measures and upgrade all these structures or restructure them, where necessary. So what we are pointing out is that there has been a vote on nr.4675, but it is seen from the very experience we now have that there is a need to revise and upgrade in many respects. I think that there needs to be a substantial dialogue with scientific bodies and members of public health services in order to move forward with a substantial improvement. The second thing I would like to point out is that a ministerial decision, signed in June last year, has already provided for the positions of the specialty of public health and social medicine, which will first be able to pave the way for education and the process, so that we have a strong system. You know that the training programme has been set, the eight centres have been designated and the Ministry will have to set up the sixteen skilled posts in the eight training centres already designated. The question is, then, whether specialization opens and moves forward and moves forward in the first sixteen places.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u439	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The Minister of Health, Mr. Vasilias, will answer you. Mr. Kikilia, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you are one of Parliament's most experienced. Thank you very much, I finally have a question for public health. I say this because we believe strongly and I will agree with you that public health takes precedence over care. The way in which we need to structure and in terms of resources has only 2%, Mr Kegeroglu, 98% of care in Greece. Such a screening system, pre-conventional control, pre-natal control, horizontal mastography for all these heavy diseases, which cause even death, based on the behavioural and social factors, i.e. sedentary life, smoking, obesity, non-sportance, leading to cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus, chronic respiratory pulmonary disease and cancer. These are the four main diseases, of which many human lives are lost, unfortunately, and it is a matter of public health and you are right to say that it should come in and provide solutions to these problems. A part of this reform was the bill, which we tabled. I accept that it needs to be updated, although I think it has many key points, which we should implement as policies. We have already implemented the reform of the anti-smoking law, which is very important, after many years in Greece and with great success. I am going directly to the part you have asked, to tell you that these fourteen and not only the Ministry of Health had forwarded more than a hundred applications from doctors of other specialties to the Central Board of Health, in order to consult and carry out the necessary examinations to give these doctors the skills of public health and social medicine, etc. I do not want to go back into the process to discuss the issue of the President of the ERCF, this will be launched in order for these procedures to proceed without delay and without delay. In particular, it concerns public health doctors, it is a procedure that will be immediately completed by setting up the committee responsible to read the relevant opinions to the Ministry and to proceed with the necessary steps to award a title. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u441	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u442	Acknowledging the essential role of public health, I think that no one will be able to object in the sense and prevention and all the actions they need when there is an epidemic or even a pandemic, this crucial role cannot be taken if there is certainly not the necessary organisational structure, but above all the necessary and appropriate personnel. In the piece medical, apart from the others, because others need health inspectors too until I don't know which specialties, public health medical expertise, as it was said to be, is very critical. And I think that since you have this positive view after dealing with the malfunctioning, I had not included it in the ERAS in the middle for good reasons, although this incident occurred in plenary after I tabled the question, the question had been tabled for some time now, I think it is a matter of the Ministry. You have been sent a letter by the Hellenic Society of Social Medicine that I would like you to have a meeting with them, you will be very useful to make right decisions. I am in a position and I know that in her administration except for academic doctors of public health from four different universities and five different central and regional services are people who are from all over the political spectrum. I will submit to you in the Minutes and for your use the letter addressed to the parties' leaders, I do not now know at the Ministry whether it has come in a different spirit in order to get a knowledge and have a consultation with them. The second point you said about the process that you will be diligent after the restoration of the smooth functioning of the Central Council is as a commitment that the first doctors to be placed in order to operate the educational centres will be your priority, but also the overall specificity of social public health will proceed on the basis of the procedures provided for in the Ministerial Decision. I have nothing to say, but we will be here to see if things go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u443	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u444	You do well and check the head of the Department of Health. I'm telling you right away that first, after your request, we'll see the people. Secondly, I will instruct the Secretary-General of Public Health, Panagiotis Preserakos, who has a deep knowledge of the issue and has helped centrally in drafting and dialogue with the Public Health Legislation to move on to it. I think that everyone can understand that a modern health system needs above and above all to be able to find ways so that much earlier in the course and in the course of the middle Greek can be diagnosed, whether genely or on the side of Physical test, i.e. stress test, either on the basis of lifestyle, either by laboratory tests, or on the basis of pre-contractual testing, tendencies for systemic diseases that can be treated much better, with much better anticipation, with much better quality of life for the middle Greek. This has to enter our culture now. The new generations have to be an estate. I am pleased, once again, that an experienced colleague brings this issue. In my opinion, one should first think about how to prevent all these people, on the basis of the guidelines that the organised state and the experts will give to a hospital and then how to treat them when they arrive at the hospital. It is the last thing, but I will say it, the question of funds and health expenditure. It's unbelievable to save. The main and most important of all, however, is the quality of life of the middle Greek family, the middle Greek, not to get sick, not to get severe, to know early in his life what risks are and what is the way to avoid them. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u445	Thank you very much, Minister. It's the Minister of Labour now. We have two questions which will be discussed together since they have the same subject. These are the questions from Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Igoumenides. The seventh question under number 941/20-7-2020 will be discussed in the context of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extension of the collective agreement of the tourist bus drivers of Crete with the tourist agents and the owners of tourist buses". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have discussed the subject of collective agreements before. Now it's not a general question. We are referring only to the issue of the collective contract of working of the tourist bus drivers of Crete. In particular, there was a contract that expired normally on 31 March 2020. Its re-energy is three months, as is well known, as is all the conventions. You have granted an extension for all contracts up to 30 June 2020. If you did, then, extend the contracts until 30 June 2020, I think that this contract expired on 30 June 2020, but it also has the quarter of the rehearsal. In this case, I think that it could have been possible, since the extension was in effect, to have a quiet debate between the two parties in order to conclude a new collective agreement or to determine the further course, whether by renewal or by a new contract, as they decide. It is well known that one cannot intervene in the negotiation stage and the way in which both sides agree within the framework of the law of course. The question, therefore, is whether that interpretation falls within the scope of this Convention and with that interpretation whether it applies until 30 September 2020 with re-energy. If that is the case, it will be a good thing because social peace will be restored and both sides will have all the time in front of them to negotiate and agree. The second thing I would like to put to you by closing two minutes, Mr Minister, is that in any case, and particularly if what I told you according to the Ministry is not the case, the Ministry should immediately respond to the call on the side of the bus drivers for a trialogue meeting at the Ministry. In short, I can tell you again that, if this interpretation is the case, social peace can be restored and both sides can proceed to the negotiation. If it is not the case, I think that you must respond immediately to the request made by tourist bus drivers to make a three-way meeting at the Ministry and discuss, to know each side firsthand what the institutional framework is in which they can move and whether or not the meteorology is applicable after 30 June 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The other question to be discussed together with Mr Kegeroglou's question is the fourth question under number 938/17-7-2020. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I must admit that for me it is unpleasant that we are coming to this debate today and for the reason that a number of colleagues have raised the issue that we are discussing, but above all because for a month now the guides of the tourist buses of Crete, the 'Ermes' union, have been on strike. Despite continuing strikes, it is impossible so far to agree to a new contract. Workers, in fact, are under suffocating pressure at a time when they should normally work and their work should be fully protected. After all, I believe that the protection and safeguarding of decent working conditions would also be a better ad for our tourism. The question, therefore, is what the Ministry of Labour does and how it treats this group of workers who have been in strike for a month. I believe that the logic of equal distances in this particular case works in favour of the partner-in-commander. I believe that the government should finally take place and stop washing hands, as another Pontius Pilate. The role of the Ministry of Labour, in my opinion, is not to hide behind the laws, but to intervene and to find solutions even to this extension of the contract. Of course, and that is the question that is being asked, the government, of course, must respect the social partners and, on the other hand, cannot remain unsuccessful. The question is: What actions are you going to take to find a solution and to defend the demands of tourist bus drivers for the signing of a new collective agreement? And, of course, I will testify for the minutes and the letter from the club, and my colleague, before me, who are calling for a trialogue meeting at the Ministry. What is your position for this, when it will be set. Because he cannot be referred to the bells. The meeting must take place tomorrow - I'd say louder, if possible. What's the position of the Ministry at this meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much, Mr. Igoumenides. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, good evening. You have six minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u450	Good evening, Mr. President. Good evening to the chosen colleagues. Mr. Igoumenides, I'm starting with you. I give an answer to what you criticised. The Ministry of Labour is neither hidden, but I add nor dissatisfied. The Ministry of Labour is there, close to society, monitoring matters, beside the workers constantly and within the institutional framework that exists, with the legal arsenal of the labour law of our country, trying to deal with matters when and whenever they arise. Simple as that. I come more specifically now. For us, Mr Igoumenides, trade union freedom is a fundamental right of workers who are explicitly protected by our Constitution, but also by international conventions and conditions which bind our country. Trade union freedom is a dynamic synthesis of the right to free establishment and participation in trade unions, the right to free collective bargaining of working conditions and collective bargaining - from now on I shall call them TSE for reasons of briefness - and the right to collective action and mobilisation to protect labour interests and to promote labour claims in terms of collectiveness and solidarity. The collective agreements define the terms of employment and the terms of employment of the parties to each other. The terms and procedures for the conclusion of a TSE are governed by the law, the known law of 1876, since 1990, a fundamental inviolable law. The TAAs shall complement the general working conditions regulated by the relevant laws and guaranteed by the Constitution, define the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties, define issues relating to collective bargaining procedures and conditions, mediation and arbitration. The TSEs normally adopt more favourable working conditions than those laid down in the existing legislation. The validity of collective agreements is extended by law for a period of three months after their termination or termination in order to facilitate collective bargaining, to protect workers until the conclusion of a new collective agreement. In other words, what is provided for in a collective labour agreement is still in force for a period of three months after its expiry. Where it is not possible to achieve a collective agreement, after three months, workers shall be covered in the context of rehearsal, as the conditions relating, firstly, to basic wages or basic wages and, secondly, to the four basic benefits of maturation, children, studies and dangerous work, provided that such allowances are provided for in the collective labour agreement which expired or terminated. At this point, I would remind you that in the context of emergency measures to deal with the health crisis, the Ministry of Labour specifically took care of collective agreements so that no worker would remain outside the protective framework. The health crisis, with multiple consequences for the country's national economy and labour market, left no room for collective bargaining in order to conclude new collective labour agreements in the event of their termination. That is why by legislative provision of 1 May 2020, an act of legislative content, we extended until 30 June the duration of all those collective agreements whose three-month extension ended within a period of time from 29 February 2020 to 30 April 2020. Therefore, the collective labour contract of the tourist buses of Crete with the tourist operators and the owners of tourist buses, the three-month extension of which ended on 31 March 2020, was extended until 30 June 2020, i.e. for as long as the restrictive measures imposed to deal with the pandemic lasted. I stop here, I'll be placed in my dentistry. In order to prevent any criticism, however, I would like to say that I welcome the proposal that the tripartite meeting should be held at the Ministry of Labour. But I'll see you in secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u451	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the contents of the collective agreements and the procedure as amended, because the law has been in force since 1990, but has been changed, far too much we know. And, of course, it is not the Ministry's role to take one side or the other, but it is to ensure that free negotiations can take place, and that safeguards the workers' side, which is legally supported and I think the guarantees are there. However, from the employers' point of view, there are corresponding guarantees. It is therefore a clear process, but it must be carried out in order to achieve results. If the negotiation does not take place, how will it work? As you rightly said, it was not possible in the pandemic to negotiate. I have a different interpretation of the dates and I would like to say that the collective working contract of tourist bus drivers with the employer's side that ended on 31 March 2020 had been concluded, signed in May 2019 and that it was extended, in accordance with the act of legislation ratified by law, until 30 June. There's no extension of the meteorology, there's nothing different. On 31 March the contract expired. It was extended until 30 June by the Act of Legislative Action, and then the re-energy, as in all conventions. The period of re-energy has not been erased since an extension has been legally granted to the time of the contract. I consider this to be an interpretation which resolves this issue in this particular case, because with the power of rehearsal until 30 September 2020 there is all the time through social peace to consult. Because, as my colleague said, many people have been mobilising so long on the part of employees to survive, of course, the aid that has been decided by the state has not yet reached them. In fact, to date, the platform was open to submit applications for June. So people's situation, individual and family, is very difficult. I think, therefore, that if this interpretation is the case - and I say that if there is another interpretation I will listen with caution - it may well be possible to find a solution through the tripartite, which, apart from being accepted by you, Minister, would be useful in the next few days - because this controversy and the mobilisation of the workers has taken too long to be defined in order to have a clear-up in the context that will be agreed between both sides. We want to have a composition, we want there to be results, efforts have been made at local level and on the regional authority's initiative and with other bodies' initiatives. It hasn't been possible. I believe that you can understand that it is the case that you have a final solution and that it is their responsibility from there and on both sides to reach an agreement, which will, of course, be in the interests of both sides, and that of tourism as a whole. It is not a good thing tourists who come down, apart from the problems we have with the coronary, to face the movement of workers. It is not a good thing that there is no smooth service to them, it is not a good thing that these people’s families suffer because they do not have the necessary to survive. I call on you to give a solution in this way too. It's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u453	Thank you very much, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Igoumenides, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u454	Minister, while, as I told you, coming to this debate was an unpleasant surprise to me, your answer does not surprise me at all. In my opinion, you are entirely consistent with the policy you are serving, the policy of the vouchers, the policy of deregulation of labour relations, the policy that leaves the workers at risk under working jungle conditions. If you want to talk about collective agreements, yes, to say: no worker in Greece without the'umbrella' protection provided by the collective agreement. Work outside the collective agreement is black slavery, it's black work, it's unacceptable, it's rejected. You will allow me to say that apart from the letter of the law, there is his spirit. Both the law and the Constitution stress the safeguarding of social peace and the protection of workers. So in this sense - yes, I will insist and come back - the Ministry of Labour must stop playing the role of Pontius Pilate. The fact that a sector in one of the most tourist regions in the country is on strike and that, to date, the ministry has only been able to do something because it is not, in my opinion, a minister. I believe that the ministry should stop denying intervention by leaving the workers north on a hunger wage. Five hundred families today who are following our debate, demanding and fighting for their self-evident employment rights. How do they stay out of protection of the collective agreement? I think it's positive that you're accepting the tripartite meeting at the Ministry. However - as I said in my prototype - I think that this tripartite meeting should take place within the next two days, by the middle of the week. Also, Minister, I would like to conclude by asking you what measures you intend to take to support workers in the area who are increasingly in a difficult position. Let me remind you of SYRIZA's proposal for full payment of the wage to employees with the state to pay 40% of the wage and 100% of the insurance contributions. Tell us what your position is and if you intend to adopt it for the workers and the tourism sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u455	Thank you very much, Mr. Igoumenides. The Minister has the floor for his denology for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with Mr Igoumenides, who has made an ideological criticism of the government. Mr. Igoumenides, I suggest you be more careful. Just before you ruled. Four and a half years have shown examples of how you see the labour market and workers. This has also been reflected in the elections that your workers have turned your back, because you have used the workers with its well-known tactics to close the eye and hit your hand on the back and on the substance of the matter you are the government - I remind you of them, to keep them in mind - which has for the first time brought collective redundancies and their liberalisation into the labour market for the first time. The liberation of team redundancies is signed by SYRIZA's party, Mr. Igoumenidis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u457	That's right, if you think so!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u458	Please, Mr. Igoumenides, did not interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u459	Don't get upset. You know you're being exposed now. You said that and you'll get your answers. The workers are watching. And I would remind you that you are the government that put one third of the new part-time recruitment, over 50% on new part-time recruitment, and less than EUR 420 on their wages, that is, under the unemployment benefit. That was your government. That's where you drove things. That is why I recommend that you be more careful when criticising. Now I come to Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, I would like to tell you that I agree with you. Our pursuit - and you know - is labour peace. The aim of the Ministry is to make work peace, not to have this conflict between workers and employers, to have this reconciliation, to have the ground and the common component of finding solutions. But we don't always find it. These are the free collective negotiations. I have here a text to tell you that at the moment there are nineteen sectoral collective labour agreements, nine homoprofessionals, one arbitration decision, a total of twenty-nine. None of the twenty-nine collective labour agreements are located in the quarter of the extension. In particular, the sixteen-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-sixth-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-s, shall end on 31 December 2020, the 10th-year-st-st-st-st-s-st-st-st-st-s-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-s-st-st-s-s: I would therefore like to say that our political function and aim are to support free collective bargaining. We cannot impose what you are proposing with a policy in this case. I'm not going to go any further. This question has been answered twice before in the House. But I close with the proposal you make, Mr Kegeroglu, which I accept. We will, of course, have a three-way meeting between workers, employers and the Ministry in the next few months. I can't identify the day because right now I'm in the House, it's ten and half at night. Tomorrow morning my services will see to it that this tripartite meeting is being proposed by the Change Movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u460	Thank you very much, Minister. Nice climate, I like it. And we go to the ninth under number 942/20-7-2020 topical question by Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Publication of a ministerial decision according to the order of reasonable doubt (Law 4554/18) and to engineers - old insured with full insurance to another body, other than the CSMEDE". You have two minutes at your disposal for your protology, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Positive, Minister, your response to the request for a trialogue meeting. See until it becomes the tripartite reconciliation and legal basis, if what I told you about this collective agreement is true. Because what you said is generally true. I now come to an issue we have discussed before, and for which you committed that despite the first point of view expressed by the competent authorities, we had to review it. It is an issue that concerns insured persons who have been in the state of double insurance for a period. But they were public workers. The State paid the contributions for one insurance and from a certain point and then without them having a private activity by the ECA and, above all, by the existing body, they requested the payment of substantial amounts relating to the second insurance. I am referring in particular to the cases of engineers who were insured and before 1993 - and I say this because after 1993 they have been fully clarified - they were in the public sector, normally insured by the public sector, and now they are in front of the fact that they have to pay 180,000 and 200,000 euros. That doesn't exist. And there's no paperwork, there's no justice, there's no real reason why people from a monthly live their families, so that's not possible. Assuming it was compulsory insurance, that was a public obligation. So the public needs to clear up the work between them. They must not be asked by a civil servant, a civil servant to pay insurance contributions, which is the employer. I shall conclude by saying that there is the provision of the law which has been exploited for cases where there is reasonable - as stated - a number of things. Article 3 of the Act states that the reasonable doubt is that one of the cases where the article may apply is full insurance by an employed or self-employed person during the same period of time for which contributions have been charged by an insurance institution for employed or self-employed services. It is a cardboard case that I mention, that is to say, a civil servant with a retrospective request from the insurance institution to pay and CSMEs beyond general insurance. And Law 4554/2018, as amended by Law 4623/2019, provides that these cases are resolved by ministerial decision. I would like your positive response in order to find a solution to a serious problem that has arisen in people without ever being informed. And that is very important, because otherwise they would have moved towards their service which would clarify things on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. In your question, will the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u463	For reasons of shortness, I am going beyond the preliminary, what we have done with insurance reform and what we are seeking, which is above all the viability of the system. An insurance policy which has been afflicting our country for decades and is now at a balance of the system. It confirms this and proves that for the first time the submitted proportional study, which came to the House, accompanied by the bill and the study on pension adequacy. I am now entering the core of your question, Mr Kegeroglu, and I would like to refer to the existing legislative framework, because here as Minister, with my institutional role, I cannot, through the House, deal with such matters, except my obligation to respect law, legislation and the institutional framework. It is only through this safe road that I can place myself in cases like the ones we are discussing in the timely question. So I say that according to Article 3 of the n. 4554/2018 - I want to take this into account, Mr President, because it has a value - debts to former social security institutions or the public, for which there was reasonable doubt as to whether or not to subject two or more former insurance bodies or the public for the period up to 31 December 2016 are deleted or exempted from any additional fees, interest, increases and charges imposed. In accordance with CPC No 15/C/690/1663, Ministerial Decision of the Secretary of State for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, issued by way of authorisation under Article 3 of Law 4554/2018, on the subject of ‘Abolition of 1-11993 insured with parallel insurance until 31-12/2016 to former insurance bodies under the provisions of Article 3 of the Law. This provision is without prejudice to the right of the new insured persons, i.e. those who are subject to compulsory insurance from 1-1 1993 onwards, in the case of compulsory insurance and more than one institution on account of status and employment for the period up to 31-12-2016. They may request the deletion of their certified and non-debts to the social security institutions, which have arisen in the context of application of Article 39 of Law 2084/1992, including any additional fees, interest, surcharges and other charges. A prerequisite, in accordance with paragraph 2 of the Ministerial Decision, is for the electronic submission of the application of the person concerned. At the same time, Article 3 of Law 4554/2018 provides that, in response to the above requests by the persons concerned for their entry into that provision, Mr Kegeroglu, first of all, an opinion of the Social Security Council, the so-called SKA for short, and then a decision of the Minister of Labour, which resolves the above claims, is to be adopted. These provisions were deemed intentional due to the complexity, complexity and continuous modifications of the legislative framework for the application of insurance and were therefore created to the detriment of insured debts for the purposes of subjecting the parallel insurance to two or more former bodies due to difficulties in interpreting legal matters. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I come more specifically to my dentistry, to say what can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u464	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in fact the Deputy Minister of the previous government, SYRIZA, also left to hear it - did not include the old people who were insured before 1993 in this ministerial decision, although the law is very clear. It gives the right, if you read later, regardless of whether they are old or new insured and if the reasonable doubt, which can be demonstrated by one of the cases mentioned, is valid. The second case referred to in Article 3 is the case, which I mentioned to you. So while it did not include the old people in the case of engineers, we now talk about another charge that included the old people. It is the Ministerial Decision 689/1662, on the same date, with the same FEK you mentioned, on 28-11-2018, and it refers to the insured in the former GPAF, are the journalists, who were included in this regulation and thus solved the problem they had, because there was a problem with people who had both blocks and at the same time were workers on means of communication. At the same time they were invited to pay security at both IKA and TEBE and I don't know where else. So, with this law and that ministerial decision, it was also solved for the old insured. But engineers only solved for young people. New insured persons under this law are considered after 1993. For the information of the House, I say it. The leaders and the Minister know this first of all. So what I understand from the Minister is that while the law provides for it, the previous government was making restrictive ministerial decisions. But if I understood it correctly - he will tell us in his secondary speech, to find the solution - on the basis of this law, there will have to be a request for the Social Security Council, the so-called SCA, which, after consulting, will make the ministerial decision. If I understood correctly, the Minister gave us this answer. I expect to see if that is true or something else. But I think that the law covers this process completely, and it is unfair that a significant number of our citizens working in the public sector - they are not working in the private sector - who have never worked in the private sector, should be invited to pay afterward. I say, Minister, if I understood it correctly, that you are saying that they are covered by the law, but the previous government did not include them in the ministerial decisions and, in your opinion, a request needs to be made to the Social Security Council, which, after giving its opinion and according to the opinion, will decide. It is a procedure which I understand, because the Social Security Council is for that reason, to give an opinion on cases that are not clear in the institutional framework for social security. It's a road. However, I would like to know if you understand that this is more generally the case than if there is a need to regulate and within Article 3 in general, regardless of whether the previous government has adopted the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u466	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your second speech, as Mr Kegeroglu said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, I would like to take this House's attention, in the sense that these issues are in deep legal terms, very specific, and I am obliged to speak from text, because the answer I give my colleague Mr Kegeroglu I want to be specific on the basis of the legal provisions in force. Mr Kegeroglu, the provision you refer to is unclear. I tell you beforehand, and we need to find a way in common to find a solution to the problem. The Ministry of Labour is carefully studying all the claims of the insured to be subject to the rule of reasonable doubt - that is our point, the reasonable doubt - and assesses individually and specificly each one. Where the criteria set out in Article 3(2) of Law 4554/2018, which demonstrate the reasonable doubt, are met and there is a positive opinion from the Social Security Council, the Ministerial Decisions will be adopted under the Act. The Social Security Council is an advisory and advisory body of the Ministry of Labour - you have rightly said so - in the secretariat whose requests are made and which meets at regular intervals. As you know, under the authorisation of Article 3 of Law 4554/2018, two ministerial decisions were adopted in 2018, according to which the debts of two categories of insured and, in particular, of journalists, old insured - rightly said so - of the former TSPAPT, of the Athens-Thessaloniki Personal Newspapers Fund, and of the former GAAP members with active status in areas with special population criteria. In other words, they have regulated their debts rather than individually, on a case-by-case basis, as provided for in the legislative and regulatory framework. Because in your question you are asking for a corresponding ministerial decision to be issued to the category of old insured persons on 1 January 1993, who are insured in a fund such as the CTBO and have in the meantime been appointed to the public, I must clarify that the ministerial decision adopted by the law expressly provides for the provision to be made to the order for the reasonable doubt of the new insured persons, namely those who have been insured as from 1 January 1993. In particular, with regard to the mechanical insurers of the CFIME, cases of compulsory parallel insurance up to 31 December 2016 arise from old insured persons of the former CFIME appointed to the State by 31 December 1992 and, in particular, old members of the former CFIME, engineers appointed to the public until 31 December 1992 to specialise in other than engineers who, in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the Law. In this regard, the Commission observes that, in order to determine whether the aid is compatible with the internal market, it is necessary to determine whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. Second, former members of the former CSMEDE, engineers appointed to the public until 31 December 1992 to specialize PET engineers who, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of the Law. In this regard, the Commission observes that, in the absence of State aid, the aid measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now Article 107(1) TFEU) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now Article 107(1) TFEU) and Article 107(1) TFEU (now Article 108(3) TFEU) do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) TFEU. Up to now, requests from former members of the CAMME indebtedness to write off debts due to reasonable doubt have not been submitted to the Social Affairs Council, SCA, which is expected to meet in August. However, if such requests are made for such application of the provisions on reasonable doubt, which are insured in a fund of the former CMEA and have been appointed to the public in the meantime, there will be an extensive study by the relevant advisory body of the Ministry of Labour, the CTA, taking into account the facts and extent of each request separately. The services of our Ministry are carefully studying the issues raised in connection with the parallel insurance of two or more former bodies and the liabilities created, taking into account the relevant recommendations of the services of the ECAI, as well as the proposals of the professional bodies of the insured with a view to ensuring the protection of the insured, the pensioners and the overall insurance system. Ministerial decisions will be adopted as long as the conditions of the law are met, but within the limits of our country's budgetary possibilities without disturbing the balance and jeopardising the sustainability of the country's insurance system. As you can see, then, Mr Kegeroglu, here's the road. The Social Security Council can welcome requests from people interested. That is the competent institution that will assess each case separately. Personally, as Minister, I commit myself if the suggestions are positive. Then, on the basis of the positive suggestions, I am obliged morally and politically to make ministerial decisions in this case, but not as Minister to take initiatives to eradicate debts. That is not my role, nor my political education, nor my form of political education allow. There are institutions. There are laws. That's how we have to work. We paid the Ministers for Labour the "Saint Queens" over the past few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u468	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you both very much. We enter the fifth under number 940/20-7-2020 in an up-to-date question from the Member of Parliament, Boeotia, the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct application of the decisions taken by the Council of State on pensioners' retrospectives". Mr. Mulkiotis, good evening and good week. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the subject is well known to you. Of course, as you know and realise, retired people are very anxiously awaiting a message which, after the decision of the Council of State, the government had already given it. There was no reason to be such a delay in what it would do. Two decisions have been made by the Council of State. There are very specific issues raised. Indicate very specific limitations and specific provisions. It is reported that we are talking about retroactive 11 months that is from June 2015 to May 2016. These decisions of the Council of State are restrictive, as I have said, for both the time span and the beneficiaries, since they are only retroactively attributed to those pensioners who have brought actions and no explicit reference is given to any decision to cover them and to unpaid pensioners. As you know, Minister, we throughout and throughout the pandemic have tabled proposals and many of them have been accepted. We have even recognised this in the House. You have accepted too many of our proposals, adopted them, and indeed was for the good of the citizens. So today we ask you to tell us how the government intends to respond to the request of pensioners who have not made any appeals and have to be covered in order to avoid spending and all the other problems that you know so much better that there are. Also, these retrospectives, how will retired people be given? It's a major financial problem. It is understandable and we cannot ignore it. But the government must have certainly studied that there was a retrospective issue. So he must have done it - to say it for the people too - and the issue of how he will give the stigma and the message of paying these retrospectives. So, Minister, is there the timeframe you are judging in order to satisfy pensioners who have or have not had recourse and who are entitled to retroactive treatment for this period? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u470	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. You will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u472	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Mulkiotis, your question is not typically timely. It is also really timely in the sense that this issue really is being raised in society at the moment as a top issue, a subject for the day-to-day discussion on television broadcasts, news tricks. The question comes to the Ministry of Labour and to the government as a whole: What will the Government do with the retroactive measures resulting from the recent decision of the Council of State? I would like to explain to you, and I would like to give an answer, which has been a little, a little, a little, a little bit, a little bit. We've been placed as government. First and foremost, Mr Mulkiotis, you know that our government - I repeat - respects judicial decisions. The question is: How do we prove this? But we've already proved it through our own political practice. In other words, the latest decisions of the Council of State, before the one we are discussing with your timely question, were on October 1, 2019, which considered the Katorugalo - SYRIZA unconstitutional on many points, on issues relating to subsidiary, in connection with the income of the free professions, the main pensions that did not exist in return. You know very well that when our decision came out it was that we are in fact committed to respecting the decision or decisions of the Council of State. But this is the only way that can be done - on 28 February 2020 that the insurance law has been passed through which another insurance concept is now incorporated and for the subsidiary that we have made a reduction in the EUR 1.300 cut, and at the same time, we have turned insurance into an attractive insurance policy, not a punishment and a isotope as we motivate someone to remain in the insurance company for thirty years and, above all, because it will have higher rates of replacement. And we didn't just bring the law, but we did it, too. In particular, we gave the new subsidiary on 1 May 2020. They got two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners in the new subsidiary. On 7 July we gave the pensioners the retrospectives of eight months. Our timetable says that by the end of the year we will also give the new main pension to hundreds of thousands of pensioners and give the retroactive 12 months to hundreds of thousands of pensioners. It's not just that, Mr. Mulkiotis. You give me the opportunity to say - because it is my first presence in the House - that three days ago - you saw it, too, the entire Greek people saw it - we were doing a real sport. We've achieved the digital pension. It's not just a digital platform or digital pension. It was something many thought it was impossible to do. They challenged it that it could become a reality and the digital pension ‘ATLAS’ became a reality. Three thousand ninety-nine pensions were given from the pilot project of "ATLAS" and from that day on, that is to say, from 23 July 2020, the system has now been opened and the digital pensions come out in seconds to two major categories of the widow’s pensions and farmers we have placed first priority. The timetable, which we presented in public, says that at the end of the year we will give a digital pension to another great sensitive category, to the disability pension category. In the mid-2021 they will receive a digital pension for those applicants, private sector employees and public sector employees, and at the end of 2021 they will receive the former OGA fund, i.e. self-employed, professionals, lawyers' fund and journalists. So at the end of 2021, we will also have the end of a torture period for the Greek people, for workers and pensioners waiting for two, three and more years to get what is self-evident, what is the end of working life, that is, their retirement. It is an achievement that will remain a reserve in the next generations, the digital pension "ATLAS". On the question of retrospectives that emerged in the latest decision of St.A., I repeat, Mr. Mulkiotis, that we will respect the decision of justice. Because I've been talking for five minutes and I've got a denture, I'm going to tell you a few suggestions on the payment of these retrospectives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u474	As you said, the issue is very topical and interesting. If you want, I give you more time, because there are too many people who are interested. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u475	Indeed, Mr President, this is a topical issue and it is about the whole of society. Everyone is anxious to hear from the Minister's lips in the House what the government will do in relation to retrospectives and pensioners. I, in fact, expect to have specific proposals from the Minister, to listen to the views of the government in order to know now and to have a clear framework and a clear picture of how the government will move from now on. Minister, the government had adopted the logic - I will remind you - 'Don't move and move to actions or appeals, get into the HRR system, make the request' - which was also from the previous government and which you also adopted - 'and the treatment of the retroactive effect will be done'. That's what retired people have done. Retired people have been trusted. It's what we call confidence in the administration. It is a very big case that the citizen's confidence in the administration is a bet that he must at the moment give, that is to say, a signal and a message that the Council of State has said that. Although we have our doubts and we have said that you are basically continuing the Katorugalou law, but the unconstitutionality you have corrected them - it is a fact - and you must now give the signal in this particular case about how these pensioners will be satisfied, firstly how they will get this money in the 11 months' time, how they will get it, and also those who have not appealed, have not gone to proceedings others and have gone to costs, to costs and in anguish years to settle them. These people will be satisfied? The pensioner today needs to be satisfied or has to run again, initiate legal proceedings, etc.Huh? It is an enduring situation, an anguish, an uncertainty that is not right nowadays. The pensioners must now take the concrete, firm response from the government to know how we are going from now on. Minister, you said of course about e-ECA and how it proceeds with the "ATLAS" system, etc. From now on this system will actually come in and move on. But, Minister, there are three hundred thousand outstanding pensions. Not to say my own for the district. Six thousand pending pensions in e-farmers. You know, we talked about it next time. There is no staff to take out the bureaucracy of the hand and that is still going on and it is another big issue that we will all find in front of us. It's not yours or ours. It's all about pensions. You know what the farmer is in today. Six thousand unfinished items in e - Greece's Central Farmers' EPCA. Since 2016 they've even been retiring. We're in 2020. What else can a farmer do who can't do anything else? So you also need to see these and staff social security services. No staff, only with machines can't be done. As much as we want to identify and say good, we need the staff, the living material, to see how these processes are progressing. It's too much of a deal. You know it, Minister. I cannot imagine that you do not know them, but you have to tell the House too, so that we all know the clear framework and the clear scope, how to move the issue of insurance and the past, because the past is the major one that burns and we have it in front of us. So, because you have also raised this issue, there are also issues for pensioners for their retrospectives, but you will tell us today - and here I challenge you - about these people, the three hundred thousand who have been without pension for so many years, what you will do as a Ministry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u476	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mulkiotis, I recognize your sensitivity, but let's see how the reality is. Today, as Minister of Labour, I am in the House three days after the beginning of the greatest achievement in social security. Mr President, what today's workers in the country who are conquering the Greek people must know, regardless of the fact that it has been done for the days of the current political leadership and the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is that the next generations will not expect two or three years to retire. All the next generations of the country's workers will be retired in seconds. They were all questioning it, and it was done with the 'ITLAS'. I am pleased, Mr Mulkiotis, that you recognize that this is a reality. For old pensions, of course, there is a problem. There is no technical procedure for the pressing of a button, as we did with the new pensions. But think it's a 50 - year legacy. There are now no outstanding pensions. For fifty years there were in the system. For fifty years people have been afflicted by outstanding pensions. You bring it up as a major topic. I accept it a little as a counterweight to the great achievement in order to reduce the government's success. Well, that's a good thing. Okay, we're making criticism, that's what politics is. Now imagine all of this world of e-FYROM. I'm not in favour of recruitment, I'm clear. In 2012-2014, I listened to SYRIZA and other parties saying "take up the pensions". Recruitment wasn't a solution. The solution was the "ATLAS" which was interrupted in 2015 with the government of SYRIZA and stopped the course that I had built with Christos Hallaris ready to digitally come the next time. Vassilis Kegeroglu was my State Secretary at the time and he knows them very well. So I say to you that the human potential, which is saved through these new functions of the 'ATLAS', digital pension, will only be able to deal with the remaining ones, which will no longer be increased. There will be no increase in the volume of outstanding. They will continue to fall and we will reach a point very soon that these outstanding ones will be zeroed. That time is ahead of us. Secondly, we are trying. I can't say that. There's been a titanic effort. Watch out. The second half of 2020 is one of the most frequent intervals for e-Vanca, which is now the only single body we have built in Greece - we have integrated the whole system administratively and organisationally - because this second half we have huge obligations. Look out, Mr. President. We paid new subsidiary, retrospectively, subsidiary. At the end of July, at the moment, our commitment that for the first time in the history of insurance is being paid together, gentlemen and subsidiary. That's not easy. It was for the first time an unfinished period of decades. We have before us the new master and retrospectives of the gentlemen. We have this debate before us now, the retrospectives. We have the pensioners' pensioners who need to adapt the system and we have the outstanding pensions, all this great burden. In addition to the human resources, I inform you, my dear fellow Member, that we are seeking and slowly trying to adapt the new software of the "ITLAS" system - that is now the future of our insurance policy - to integrate in-house and pending pensions. You understand what will happen, on the day that the package of outstanding pensions will be taken, for example, of the two categories that we have now put into operation of widowhood and of the OGA. We're not far away and that's what keep it. We are separated a few months from the day that this whole world of outstanding pensions, which is 40% of outstanding pensions, will automatically enter the "ATLAS". I can't say any more. I live here. That's where we're trying. So optimism. There is no solution to the problem of outstanding pensions or to the appointments you are saying. There can be no appointments, I didn't believe it. "ATLAS" is now a reality and this government has shown that everything that commits it to doing so. In the matter to which you refer about retrospectives, I will become more specific. I never hid the truth through this Chamber what the reality is. Mr Mulkiotis, in the social budget that is the Ministry of Labour's budget, we had anticipated the money for the subsidiary, the one we gave and the money for the main pensions, what we are going to give. The package of retrospectives doesn't have it at the Ministry of Labour. There's no money in the Ministry of Labour. It is money that the Greek people will pay in their pocket and I want us to be clear. We know. There's no magic drawer, magical way of finding money to be paid. Money is too much. They are billions and the state budget will pay them. And when we say the state budget's gonna pay for it, to get in touch, we're all gonna pay for it. It is an extraordinary expenditure at the moment of the state budget to come to the Ministry of Labour to pay the money to the pensioners, based on the decision of the Council of State. They are billions, Mr Mulkiotis, and I do not think one in this Chamber can easily say it has made some billions to pay. There aren't any of these. The Ministry of Labour doesn't exist. We'll get it from the state budget, from the taxpayers. Secondly, it is not just that decision. It is also the Court of Auditors' decision on civil servants, which we are also waiting for the Court of Auditors' decision on the retroactiveness of the retrospectives. I don't know what the decision is. We'll see her when she gets out, but I'm telling you that we'll respect her, too. Respect for the Court of Auditors' decision means that we will respect a decision if it speaks of money, that is, the package will increase the obligations of the Greek state, which neither do this money exist in the Ministry of Labour's social budget. And this money will be taken from the state budget. That's reality. That's the truth. There are no drawers in the Ministry of Labour that have money parked and have them at the disposal or that we do not give or make the bad guys and say: 'We don't give money'. This money will be taken from the Greek taxpayer. We shall now proceed to the question of how the decision of the Council of State is to be welcomed. I am here today in the Greek Parliament through your question ready to say a few things. Firstly, we will respect the decision. Secondly, our position applies. You said so, in terms of good administration, that we do not want pensioners running at legal offices, not waste money, no time with what is happening in a country where the Minister of Labour is in public today, and there are two other ministers and the Minister of Finance and the government representative. They have said that we will respect the judiciary's decision and that this money is money that we are going to pay for and that pensioners should not run at legal offices. I think that means a lot. The provision in which the money will be given, namely the way, the timing of award, the duration of award is an issue that has not expired. It is a question that we are working on. It will be a provision of law, quite clearly, which will specify the way and the procedure for paying the money. It is an issue that I wish and I believe we will be announcing very soon. So, Mr Mulkiotis, you must keep in mind that we will respect the decision of the Council of State. Pensioners should not have access to the legal offices and we want it to be a process that will be the last for the insured, the workers in general with the insurance law of the country and, in future, we want to have these things backwards. We must go forward, there must be no constitutional doubts. The last law - I repeat - has no constitutional doubts. It is a law that has been evaluated and something positive for the country, that we can move forward, with an insurance law that has no loose ends, no uncertainties, as you said, because the aim of a favoured state is to do just that, just go forward and not create reasonable legal questions from the workers and the insured. We are therefore keeping it from your question that we will fully respect it, that it is a difficult exercise in budgetary matters, but we will only be able to complete it very soon, and the time, time and procedure for paying the money to pensioners will be announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u478	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the fourth with number 7074/4-6-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Equivalence of age limits for men and women for a pension with a minor child (25 years in 2010). Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the House has been officially informed by the Government of what it will do for pensioners, who have exercised and have not brought an action. I hope that there will be official governmental decisions as soon as possible - those - so that everyone knows how the whole process will be initiated. On this subject, Minister, it is the Ministry which actually accepts issues relating to society, that is to say everyone. Our question refers to the equation of the age limits of men and women in receiving pensions with a minor child. The question has to do with the decision of 317 of the year 2020 of the Court of Auditors, which was rejected by the Greek State against the decision of Section II of the Court of Auditors, which justifies a staff member who had applied for the pension ceilings with a minor child, that is, twenty-five years ago 2010. This right, Minister, concerns farmers who completed twenty-five insurance years in 2010 and have completed the age of fifty to 18 August of 2015. From that date onwards, the limits for the year 2022 are gradually increased to sixty-seven years. The question is very specific, Mr Minister, and we would also like a concrete answer here, as you directly answered the previous question. Do you intend to do so in the other cases of men, in accordance with Decision 317 of 2020? Is there any legislation to harmonize this decision of the Court of Auditors? You are saying - and I accept it and I say it - that you have at least shown it in the insurance bill - that you respect the decisions of the courts. You have complied with the decisions concerning the unconstitutionality of insurance legislation. Indeed, they have been corrected and progressed. So will the Ministry, the Government with this plenary decision, be harmonized by 317 of the Court of Auditors? And if so, what will be the timetable for this process of settlement, in accordance with the harmonisation we are asking for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u480	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u481	Mr Mulkiotis, let me make an introductory remark, which has to do with both the Ministry and the Minister's institutional role and how I personally understand things. Yes, we are, of course, respecting the decisions of justice. I would like to give you a personal example, however, which concerns me as a member of the opposition officer for four and a half years against SYRIZA, and I wish this example - I hope - for the whole political system to monitor it in the future, because I only think that we can take firm steps forward. You will rarely find my own question to the previous political leadership of SYRIZA and the government of SYRIZA that I was coming here with a question item about a social category and not to say at the same time how much money these are and where this money will be found. Because you need to know, Mr President, that every question that comes here to the Ministry of Labour, whether it relates to work or to insurance, from behind is several tens of million. And the point is: If, of course, a Member wants to do good, of course, from parliamentary democracy, the Member will of course ask, and that is the beauty of democracy and this parliamentary control, and I am here, you know, to answer, but think of the minister who would take a question, whether for insurance or for labour, it would be easy to give tens of millions. We must avoid that. That is why it is very critical that the ministers should be very firm in these critical productive ministries of finance and labour, because in these ministries decisions of any kind also have budgetary implications. And we have paid very dearly in the past unreasonable decisions that shared right and left money trying to surround the Minister with the good staff and the good costume of the sensitive and the man who is good and can share money. But that's not Brutsi's money. It's not my money. It's money from the state budget or the social budget. And every Brutsis as Minister of Labour has a moral and political obligation for the next generations to safeguard the balance of systems and not to give way to making it pleasant. The aim and purpose of each Minister is to be useful. So I come to this decision, Mr Mulkiotis. On this matter, you will allow me to go a little bit into dentistry, because here too, it wants a legal analysis that this issue - I will say in general, and I will be placed in my dentistry - is an issue that came from the Court of Auditors, but it is a matter of years ago, because these provisions have been abolished by law and now there is a balance between men and women with the new laws. That's a reality. So we are looking into this matter for a period of the past. That is why I will reply to my dentistry in greater detail so that I can respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u483	Indeed, Minister, it is a matter of the past. Indeed, legislation has become a reality and has finalised developments in relation to retirement. At the same time, however, with this decision concerning men of pensioners who have the prerequisites, it is a plenary decision of the Court of Auditors. And when they are issues relating to equality and confidence in the administration, the government must give a clear answer what it will do. For, Minister, if we have any doubts or any prerequisite to respecting or implementing this decision of the Court of Auditors, this means that these former pensioners will actually be led. I recognize it, and that's the way it is. They say so themselves. There are too many people in Greece who fall into this category. So do they have to bring an action? Do they have to be subjected to the trial? The situation is not so favourable to carry out judicial and other costs. So this is very specific, Minister. It is a decision of the Court of Auditors' plenary. He solved the issue for a specific category and for a specific time, and said that from that point on, not because it has been regulated. There is indeed a fixed arrangement. An appeal has been accepted. And so many people who can do this must definitely make an appeal to the Court of Auditors? Should they proceed to the administrative procedure? Or will the government resolve and say that the framework and economic data are available, are we taking them into account, and are we moving forward with a specific timetable? Only so, Mr Minister, in the context of good faith in any case, but always in the light of the principle of equality and good administration, but also of the public's confidence in the administration, do we see a clear and concrete answer from the government. Because anything in the event of doubt or a precondition of doubt means that some people have to bring legal action to justice. Because it's for granted they'll be vindicated. So why, with a non-judgment or an ambiguity, would the government make the citizens of this country into adventures at this juncture? We therefore want a concrete answer, Mr Minister, and I will make a commitment that this decision of the Court of Auditors will also be implemented in the context of more general respect, which is also an obligation for the government and the state of the court's decision to respect itself, namely, in order for these people to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u484	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u485	I repeat, so that there is no misinterpretation of what I shall say, that we respect judicial decisions. Secondly, I cannot judge the judgment. Judiciary judgment is respected. The Court of Auditors has, however, decided, and we have to see what it has decided, because it has an interest. Look. While public women were demanded twenty-five years of work, real service and fifty-second year of age and were retired with a minor child. One could reasonably ask: And this private sector? They were children of a lower god, I say, Mr. Mulkiotis? But be careful, it is a decision of the Court of Auditors. He's only looking at the public. I'm not appraising her. For facts, I inform the House of what happened and what this decision says. It says, therefore, that not only women fifty two years old and twenty-five years of public service, but also men until 2013 can leave with pension in their fifty-two years. And let us consider what this decision means. Of course, as Minister, I would like to tell you that this decision costs hundreds of millions. I won't hide behind my finger. I respect the judicial decision, but this decision is against what we say, that there is a budgetary balance in the country and that it is against the logic that there must also be equality with the private sector. He's out. The Court of Auditors does not, however, examine the private sector. He's right to make this decision for the sake of justice. So I tell you that this issue for us as a Ministry of Labour, the Court of Auditors' decision is judged on the basis of the legislative regime in force at the time of the applicant's departure, that is, 2014, even before the adoption of Law No.4336/2015, which established a single pension threshold for all. This is therefore a special legal case for a civil servant - a civil servant has appealed - who left the service before the increase in retirement age to sixty-seven years. Today the retirement threshold is at sixty-seven years for all. The Ministry of Labour has shown in practice that it respects the decisions of Greek justice, complies with them and applies them outright. We are studying very carefully and appraising the recent Court of Auditors' decision, which deals with a particularly sensitive social issue, this equation of the retirement ages of men and women insured until 31 December 2010. So the time period for which the House is currently discussing is until 2010 to equate men and women who were civil servants. The main concern of the Ministry of Labour is to safeguard workers' insurance rights within the limits of absolute legality and the principle of equality. However, any decision we take should be rationalized, financially measured in the context of our country's financial potential. We are here and will do everything necessary to implement the Greek justice decision, but without jeopardising the sustainability of the country's insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u486	Thank you both very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-27-S1-commons.u487	With the consent of the House at 23.20 the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, July 28, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs", according to the supplementary agenda.
