ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-3-2020 mandate, the PK's minutes of Wednesday 18 March 2020 were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of Question Time. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 19 March 2020 in connection with the parliamentary scrutiny of 19 March 2020 that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: Question No 595/16-3-2020 and Question No 3512/23-1-2020, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure." Both will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Giannis Vroutzis. We shall start directly and discuss the second question with number 595/16-3-2020 in the first cycle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Supporting the thousands of workers who are about to start work in tourist areas (season)". Here, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for being here today. I want to tell you that it is - we all know and recognize it - a very difficult time for our country and not just, and I think that we all need to help positively so that we can support society, workers and businesses. I heard yesterday from the government, which I think is a first place - I want to believe and want to believe all of us - of support for businesses and workers. I think it's on the right track, but it's not enough. So today, to get to the point, I would like to inform you of something that I am sure you know better than anyone and as Minister of Labour, but also as a Member of the Cyclades. I want to talk to you about the tens of thousands of working people in tourism. Assuming that the elements of the Bank of Greece speak of tourism at the peak, in Q3, 2018 - of course, this includes means and focus, tourist offices, hotels, in general tourism - we are talking about six hundred thousand workers or 16.7% of total employment. Of them, let's assume that about two thousand and more are seasonal employees, that is, they're working season. These people, as you know, are going to work either on the job or not on the unemployment benefit - some are not - and these people, from what you can see now, are not in the steps you announced yesterday, because they were not in the businesses that were closed, but they were in those that are now opening in March, April, May. So we need to see how we can support them, of course, we need to see this, Minister. I'll tell you. There are branches that, although they have not been closed, have suffered large losses. I will give you an example of the tourism agency sector. This sector has been damaged by not 80%, but 90% and 100%. Thank you. I will also be able to develop my opinions in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the Member of the Change Movement, Mr Constantinople, for his good intention to contribute to the country's maturity and responsibility. Because, indeed, Mr Constantinople, as you said and I agree with you, what we are experiencing today is unprecedented. It is an uncharted sea that no one could prescribe nor could ever imagine what adventure our country would enter. And it's not just our country. Europe and the world have come together and the consequences of this pandemic are global, with economic, social and health implications. In our country we are making every effort. The government is taking the facts seriously, with unity, with responsibility, with sobriety and as quickly as possible, and that, apparently, is already achieved. I think it is diffuse in Greek society that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, this government, the ministers, the MPs, and the whole of Parliament are moving with the necessary maturity and unity at this critical moment and, as you said, yesterday, we announced the second package. It was the second package of measures, as we monitor developments and at any time decide on the basis of developments. About ten days ago it was the first package of measures to deal with the period and at that time, that is to say, the time we took the leave of special purpose to relieve, because of the schools they closed, the parents to be in their homes with any side effects they might have. Because you know that a legislative decision or legislative initiative cannot at a time when it is horizontal to catch all the cases. But we are also trying to align ourselves with the gaps that are created and with the questions, that is to say, to answer them. Yesterday, in the second package, we dealt with the crucial issue, which concerns workers. Workers are currently in two directions in linking them to businesses. The first concerns workers who belong to the undertakings to which their operation has been suspended on the basis of an administrative order, as we have already done for a long time, and we have only suspended the operation of other undertakings yesterday. Therefore, all these workers belonging to these enterprises will receive an allowance of EUR 800 from 15 March to 30 April. For all the other cases of companies that are open there, there is a possibility of flexible business, as they maintain their position and through administrative flexibility, which we are creating with our legislative intervention, keep jobs. There is now a second intervention on the issue of redundancies, which is very critical, because for the first time, you are legislating something that is extraordinary - I repeat, it is extraordinary - it has never been relegated to ban redundancies in the case of workers belonging to the categories of firms which have been suspended from operation, and for any of the other measures that we have announced will be linked to the protection of jobs. So, in total, we are intervening on the question of workers in a genuine and effective way, and I believe that this is also a message to the business world of our country that it should not act manually, with panic. The crisis has come to pass, the crisis will pass, and the next day we must be united, and all together, because there cannot be businesses without workers or vice versa, we must ensure social cohesion at this time that is difficult for the country and that is a priority. I live here, Mr. Constantinople, and I will return to my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u5	Parliament's Vice-President and Deputy Arcadias, Mr Constantinople, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I understand that the question will actually be answered in your answer. What I want to tell you about our question, because I understand that you are in a good mood, is that I would first like to cover all the people who would be working. This, not to leave blanks, is people who, or take some of them, could take on the criteria, the unemployment benefit and others could not. And I want to tell you about tourism, because I understand about the tourist agencies that you said that there would be this clause, which you are putting it right. However, there is one issue because these people are able to keep jobs - and you understand it - as if they have no jobs, for example, if their turnover falls by 80%, as you have put it, or for example, there are issues, because I heard something yesterday about the reduction, if I am not mistaken, of the rentals by 40%. I don't know if that's enough, he needs a little more. It is a good step, so that we can prepare ourselves - and we really want to prepare it - and when it is done, as you said, the crisis, which seems to us to be better prepared than the other countries, is within that positive, that we can have a greater share than the next day in the tourist market, because I think that is the main issue for everyone. So in the major regions, and also in the mainland and in the island, I would like to say to you - I see Mr Kegeroglu from Crete - that the economy of the three regions, such as Crete, depends by 50% on tourism. In the southern Aegean by 97%, in the Ionian Sea by 71%, but the overall contribution of tourism to GDP is 11.7%. Minister, I'm ending with a lead because I think it's interesting. Tourism is not only about four, five, ten big players of the Greek market, it is about thousands of small and medium-sized ones who live and live every day, people in the focus, tourism, who are not billionaires, they don't have their money in the Cayman Islands, but they give their fight every day in the country. Only one I will tell you - and it is a number that you know - since 2008 when the crisis began until 2019 the receipts that held our country upright were from tourism, EUR 150 billion. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u7	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with two conclusions of agreement to what Mr Constantinople said. The first point is that I fully agree with the information he has given. Indeed, Mr Constantinople, the country's GDP determines its course, its development and its growth very importantly from tourism. Unfortunately, this year, 2020, because of this emergency crisis, due to the pandemic, will be damaged. Secondly, the issue concerning the areas of the island, as you said in Crete and the South Aegean, is indeed the elements of the Bank of Greece. In the southern Aegean, where I too have my reference as a Member from the Prefecture of Cyclades, in fact the relation between the GDP of the local areas and tourism is 97%, that is, we see that the living standards of the islands of the southern Aegean and the islands of Greece are closely linked, especially with the tourism issue, which this year will suffer a great deal. We must, however, keep our optimism high, the damage will indeed be done, the damage will be done, but it will not be irreparable. We'll be back, the crisis will pass, and we need to be found upright and united. We're all gonna fight this fight together, and we're all gonna win it together, and we're gonna win it, and we're gonna win it. Secondly, it honors you personally that you recognise that the government is taking measures which, in relation to the rest of Europe, seem to have a very good speed. This honors you, Mr Constantinople, recognition and I think it helps and contributes to the national overall effort. And now I come to the point which is very sensitive and I believe that your feelings are real, because you have the same anxiety, as we all have for the workers, for the country and for businesses. I must therefore tell you that, in fact, in business - I will not repeat it again - we are making an effort to keep the business world alive with a number of beneficial interventions, such as the suspension of payment of tax and insurance obligations four and three months respectively. We will therefore support entrepreneurship as long as we can keep the businesses alive, not to put in locks, but to suspend it for as long as we suspend the operation and start immediately afterwards. Secondly, those who are being held today and are working, must keep them with their staff there, in the battle battles that we are all fighting. With regard to the second issue concerning the part of unemployment benefits which you have raised, I must tell you that after the announcement of the second package - as I have told you in my prototype - which we announced yesterday, today or tomorrow, there will be an Act of Legislative Content, which includes your question in the sense that 'Extreme measures to support the unemployed, workers and employers of undertakings in order to deal with the consequences of the coronary and other provisions' - that is to say, this provision - provides that unemployment benefits for all these categories of the population which ended in the first quarter of 2020, at any time, are extended for two months, that is to say, until the end of May. In other words, it comes to support by acknowledging the great problem we have in tourism, because it also concerns the world of tourism, the workers in tourism. We recognise the problem and we will be intervening for two more months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Before we move to the next and last for today's timely question and before we enter the legislative work, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with article No.3126/2003 "Priminal responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case on 17-32020: Criminal case against the former Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Theodosios Pelogrinis. We move to the first with number 3512/23-1-2020 a question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Undoing insured public and private family members who take care of those with serious disabilities as regards the conditions of retirement'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is certain that more steps will be needed in the process of dealing with this crisis. Of course, when it's over, we'll need a final X-ray to see the gaps left. But from now on, we must point out that the positive provision, as you have already developed for the unemployed, has two serious gaps at first instance. You should be aware that with regard to seasonal workers in the tourism sector, in foodism, if for any reason someone has worked less than six months, the unemployment benefit received may have been by December. So it does not include the provision which you have just developed, in reply to the question by my colleague. Secondly, a long-term unemployed person, but an employee in tourism, who, for various reasons, had not worked last year and had not received the seasonal allowance and would have worked this year - and he is long-term unemployed - is not included in your order. So there are two serious gaps. Look at them. We have been pointing this out from now on. It's in the right direction, but it's not enough. We therefore draw attention to them in the preamble. There are issues relating to 'Help at Home'. And why am I saying it? Fifteen days ago, i.e. it was actually decided "we wait at home", we proposed "Help at Home" to play a catalytic role for disabled people, for helpless people who cannot get their medicine and communicate. We proposed what Mr Theodorikos announced yesterday. But I would point out this. You've been sent a memo from yesterday. There are no masks, there are no gloves, there are no protective instruments, there are no municipalities available to them, so there must be care for that too. I'm going to question the question. This is because of the main issue. It had provided for the law to be able to take care of children with disabilities at home by parents who would have completed the fiftyth year of age and would have twenty-five years of insurance in the private and public sectors and could have been retired in order to have this care and not to pay the public other money for it, a balance I would say that had a social dimension, a social sensitivity. This law was n.3996/2011. He predicted it. Unfortunately, Mr.4336, the improper, who in 2015 abolished this possibility for the private sector only, setting a prediction of an increase in the age limits up to sixty-two, i.e. while he could at fifty, with a gradual increase of fifty years, became sixty-two. Specifically for 2019 is, if I remember well, the fifty-ninth year of age. For 2020, it is sixty years. From time to time it will be the sixty-one, and 2022 will be the sixty-two. However, in the public sector, the fifty-five years of age and twenty-five are still in force. I would like to know whether you intend to deal with the lifting of this injustice, of course, so that in the private sector the same public sector is the case, that is to say, we have the possibility of retiring over the fifty-five-year-old year-old to twenty-five years-old insurance, since there is this serious disability in a family member. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u11	Mr Brutsis has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I recognise the sensitivity of Mr Kegeroglou, who, in the timely question on this issue of insurance, started with issues relating to topicality and crisis, and I am obliged to respond to the issues he has raised. Yes, Mr. Kegeroglu, no one said that we claim the perfect one. When there are crises and legislation under difficult conditions and at high speed, gaps are created. It cannot be legally covered by an Act of Legislative Content, which is necessary to come out at that time. You know that, too, you have served as Minister. But all the gaps are here to see them, to see them, and to hear them in second intervention to deal with them. With regard to the issue of unemployment benefits, which you have also raised, I would like to say that - as I said to my colleague, Mr Constantinople - today or tomorrow the Legislative Area Act will come out, on the basis of which - I will read to you in particular the provision - we cover all these categories of the world, the population, the workers, whose unemployment benefit in the first quarter of 2020 ended. We are giving these workers a two-month extension until the end of May to get the unemployment benefit. At the same time, by means of a provision of the Legislation Act, it will be possible, by common decision of the Minister for Labour and the Minister for Finance, to extend this time further, if this is necessary, i.e. to the limits which I said a few months ago, there will be an extension of the allowance if necessary. If it becomes necessary after May, we will keep this process. So, Mr Kegeroglu, we are doing everything possible in the context of the country's extraordinary events and something that we will continue to do in a spirit of unity, of harmony with all parties. I shall put myself in my denture on the subject you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Of course we need understanding, and we support it, but we do not remain silent. And we are proposing and judging - where necessary - the decisions in order to make them better and to have less social consequences. And it is certain that much more measures will be needed than those taken. But for the current period some should not be left alone, helpless. Yeah, but we're staying at home, but not isolated. For example, pensioners who have submitted since 2018, Minister, a pension application and did not enter the system that had to do with the temporary scheme, particularly those - trusted the state, that is, they believed that they would receive the pension earlier, as was said by Mr.4387 - unfortunately, they have not even received it or others who have recently made the application in 2019. So the state needs to be taken care of, perhaps for those cases that are too many. The numbers are scary. If we sum up unemployed, long-term unemployed, people who have no income, we may have to make a general decision to strengthen them. Now, on the subject I have put to you, as I have said, Mr 3996/2011 has provided for this possibility with social sensitivity. Instead of paying the state for the care of a disabled child -1/3- instead of being the disabled child in a closed structure, he says that as long as the parent has worked and has twenty-five years of insurance and as long as he has completed the fiftyth year of age, he should take care of it. It is a decision that was introduced at that time with social sensitivity and economic equilibrium. The third Memorandum, i.e. to say it clearly of SYRIZA, the so-called "necessary", which was provoked by SYRIZA himself with the policy of the first semester, comes to say "hey, no, guys, this policy is charismatic, it can't happen, it should go to sixty-two". But sixty-two is normally retired! Sixty-two retires normally! He'll go to sixty-two so he can take care of his child, and by then the state will have it in a unit, in a closed structure. This irreversible decision, therefore, by Mr Katrugalos, must, in our view, be overthrown and restored to the status quo for the public sector - that is to say, that is to say, the public - 50 years of age conditionality and twenty-five years of insurance. I would therefore like you to rethink this issue in order to return to what was the case before the third 'necessary' memorandum. And I would ask you if this has not been done, Minister, I do not have an answer today to that. I would just like your commitment that this issue will be dealt with so that there is no such injustice among the people who want to care for their children and that the public is not forced to pay money through a closed structure to which the child must go, since the parent will continue to work. It is one or another for the public - in short - economically. Socially, however, it's completely different. And care from the family environment is, I think, best these hours, we understand that. With a lot more sensitivity, we need to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor for your reply to Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for developing this issue. I share his sensitivity. Indeed, there is a distinction between the private and the public sector, but let me introduce a small amount of work into the principle of my position on the subject raised by Mr Kegeroglu, which I consider to be important in the case of pensions, which is - I repeat - a pathogenous decades of our country's system. And as I have repeated many times, Mr President, in my statements and in 2012-2014 as Minister, and now, this problem is not dealt with with the human potential it is currently serving in e-ECA or serving before. It is an issue that is not only addressed with human resources. He wants technology intervention. I would remind Parliament that at the end of 2014 the Greek Government presented for the first time the innovative ATLAS system, through which we presented the historic life of the insurance of all Greeks. In early 2015 with the change of government, the new government did not take advantage of it, so that we see the former Minister of Labour and the former Minister of Labour, respectively, of the SYRIZA government from time to time, coming out and promise and commit that the late pension debts are over and immediately thereafter disproved. In fact, the most provocative thing was that at that time, on repeated questions either time, as we are doing at the moment, and all the ministers are here to answer - or in writing, SYRIZA did not answer, in violation of the parliamentary procedure, insulting the institution of Parliament itself. Fifty-five Members of the New Democracy in February 2019 asked what the outstanding pensions are and SYRIZA avoided coming to answer, answer through the services that are only reliable. The Minister alone was responsible for the time being for the number of numbers in the air, without the signature of the services, because only when the text is signed by the services in questions and questions are answered through the House are reliable. In any case, I caused SYRIZA and I, when the New Democracy became a government, to ask me a question and answer a question. Then SYRIZA had to ask a question, he had to dare. I was Minister and I said, 'Take a question and I will answer it.' The New Democracy and Change Movement were asked then. And the answer came on 28-8-2019 in the full census made at the Ministry of Labour - to EVC at the time, today, e - EVC - a million fifty thousand outstanding cases, outstanding masters, ancillarys, budgets, widow's pensions. That was the result, Mr Kegeroglu, of SYRIZA's governance, a million fifty-eight thousand unfinished! In any case, you know that we have fallen up with all our powers. Mr. Hallaris, who is an excellent commander, low tone, technocrat, is doing everything he can with the workers and his board of directors. We have moved forward, we have re-budgeted, we have given sixty thousand widow's pensions, we have increased the human potential, the speed of pensions has increased. Unfortunately, we are constantly discovering bags with unincorporated pensions. For example, ten thousand outstanding pensions were discovered in the OGA, as Mr. Hallaris informed me, which were not measured in the protocols. Ten thousand outstanding pensions extra! In any case, we have said in all directions - and I say this once again on the occasion of Mr Kegeroglu's point of view - that this issue is dealt with in two ways, firstly, with the better organisation of human resources, which now with the e-ECA we are creating, now this very powerful single insurance institution throughout the country, we will be able to increase the speed of the award and, at the same time, with the digital transformation of e-ECA. Already the first imprint of the digital transformation of e-ECA appeared in the press release, which two days ago the Ministry of Labour got out, through which, for the first time, all contacts with the public are made remotely. It was a planned operation of the eFCA to take place at the end of 2020 and because of the crisis and events we brought it forward. Mr. Kegeroglu, EFKA is now the spearhead of the country's digital transformation. All contacts with e-FTA are digital. And any appointment is necessary to be made on an electronic platform. The system already works very well, and I have to say congratulations and a great deal of thanks to both its e-EPC officials and the HICP officials who have taken this big step and worked so hard in the last few days - morning, noon, night - to achieve this result. But something like that happened in the OAED. So the two arms of the social state and of the OAED and e - EVA have already proceeded to a major leap of digital transformation. Are we done? The answer is 'no'. That's the last part left now. The last part is the so-called digital pension, which, if we achieve it, you can understand that it will be the ultimate change in what we experience as a pathogen for decades now. Digital pensions are committed to coming out in June on new 2020 pensions. Unfortunately, the crisis is at the moment overturning the data, because the human potential that was working on e-VDECA on this issue you understand that it cannot operate with full-time machines, there is a partial function. However, we remain for June 2020. The information I have from Mr. Hallaris is that we will try to implement this commitment. If it's not June may be a month later, but we will do that, because it's the big step for the country, for the homeland, for the insured, for the retired. I live here, Mr. Kegeroglu, and I hold back for everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u19	No, Mr. Kegeroglu. We will respect the Rules of Procedure. We will not discuss, after consultation, the first under number 596/16-3-2020, the first question of the first cycle of the Pella MP, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Question on the course of the construction of the new Judicial Palace in Edessa".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, can I have the floor for ten seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u21	For what? Now we're already violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u22	We don't violate him because of extraordinary circumstances. What I said is whether there is a general decision on those who have not applied to receive the temporary pension and have remained in the air, that there should be a decision. Consider it in the next steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u23	Good. That's what it sounds like. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the institutions of occupational pension benefits (IORPs)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 March 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting in the process of organised debate, united in principle and on articles. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u25	The House therefore agreed. Before giving the floor to the first rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Manda, I give the Minister the floor to refer to some of the amendments he wants to be known to colleagues in advance. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, thank you very much. I must first say to the Members representing the parties that the effort is that at the moment the amendments must be avoided. It's already happening. Done at the insurance bill in Law 4670/2020. There was no amendment from the Ministry of Labour in the insurance reform. Same here today. But there will be an amendment with two articles which need to be made. I'm filing it now. I want the parties to be informed. Since yesterday, the President of Parliament, Mr Tasulas, informed the Conference of Presidents about the two amendments. The parties have been informed yesterday of the two amendments I will table today. They are a pension amendment to the National Bank's so-called LEIBO and to the TESTECE Fund, which is an insurance fund to include all workers who are no longer in the banks. I now come to this for the Minutes, Mr President. The parties have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u28	To be distributed to the rapporteurs. Have you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u29	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u30	Only because I saw a few colleagues' questions, I would say that this was the case. Yesterday we had a very long Conference of Presidents, and I will not say the composition of the Conference of Presidents by the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoula, for these two amendments. The rapporteurs should be informed through their colleagues represented in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u31	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u32	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u33	Yesterday, under the chairmanship of Mr Athanasios, there was a debate here on the amendments extensively and they specified certain criteria. The current amendments meet these criteria. However, because the day is not short, as far as our parliamentary work is concerned, I would like to repeat, to make you a socialist of yesterday's choices throughout the Chamber. Firstly, an amendment coming from a Minister, which is not the Minister for Legislative Initiative, has a problem. Here the initiative belongs to Mr Brutsis, Mr Brutsi brings amendments, let alone the fact that the Conference was informed yesterday. So we don't have a problem. But in order to make good accounts, Mr President, an amendment from another ministry, there is no way that the Chamber will accept it. And I imagine the majority will think that way. Unless it's an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me. This was said here yesterday in detail at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u35	Can I finish? Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u36	So we need to limit time. Repeat things that have been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u37	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u38	That's right. Excuse me, I tell everyone that I really...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u39	Why did you interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u40	I gave you the floor without needing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u41	I'm appraising what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u42	Here, finish, but it's said. The amendments are of the same Minister and they do not concern other ministries. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u43	You could have avoided that. In any case, you have not avoided it. Unless the amendments - that was my phrase - concern the big issue facing the country today with the coronary virus or its borders. If there is one such issue, of course, and the Chamber will assess the government's legislative initiative. So the rule is that it's not the House open, as it used to be. We are under exceptional circumstances, hence the House is empty for reasons of health protection. But we will accept everything that is relevant to dealing with the two major problems that I have mentioned and nothing else, Mr President. Let's be clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u44	This briefing was carried out in detail by the President of Parliament yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, as you mentioned it, and that will be applied, except for - you said so - if there is a specific reason for this crisis because of the pandemic. Otherwise, they will be amendments by the ministers who will have the legislative initiative at any time in the bills. We shall now proceed to Mr Mada, the rapporteur for the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the recent insurance reform and Law 4670 adopted a few days ago by the Greek Parliament, the bases were laid for the country to have a healthy and operational first pillar of insurance. Mandatory social security has thus entered a new era, which is now supported by a digital insurance system, which introduces a fair balance between collective and individual responsibility, between social solidarity and competitivity. At the same time, we have ensured that for many years from today, on the one hand, current pensions will continue to be protected and, on the other hand, the one-life labors for today's workers will have an impact and will lead to decent pensions, thereby best founding intergenerational solidarity. The completion of this large and important step allows us to open up the next chapter of insurance in our country, which now concerns the second pillar of insurance, namely occupational insurance. Occupational insurance is based on a different approach. It is based on and operates in the capitalisation system instead of the distribution system, it is fully optional, it is not profit-making and it is essentially complementary to compulsory social security for the first pillar. This is precisely the great advantage both in economic terms and in social efficiency. Occupational insurance contributes to the creation of a mixed pension scheme combining private and state participation, dividing risks and returns, so that the pension received by the pensioner is based on the sum of the corresponding amounts. In this way pension income is strengthened and a better standard of living is established for programme beneficiaries with a significant benefit and value for the whole of society. Occupational insurance operates in our country as defined in Articles 7 and 8 of Law 3029/2002. However, it has quite limited penetration into the Greek economy. Today, although we have twenty-three professional foundations, we have only thirty-five thousand people insured to a total of 4.7 million, which is less than 1%. The legal basis for professional insurance at European level was the EU Directive 41/2003, which was revised in 2016 by Directive 2341, with which our country must have full compliance. The latter directive introduces several new rules and conditions in occupational insurance and in the operation of the institutions of occupational pension benefits, as the occupational insurance funds are now called. The provisions introduced by the Community Directive affect the operation of the Funds in various areas. Firstly, the governance system of IORPs - IORPs, which must implement risk management and internal control functions, and have a proportionate function under specific conditions. Secondly, the terms and conditions under which cross-border activities and pension transfers are carried out within the European Union are described in detail. Thirdly, it describes the powers and control points monitored by supervisory authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the National Accounting Authority and the Securities and Market Commission. Fourthly, the information to be provided by IORPs to both candidate members and beneficiaries and to supervisory authorities shall be recorded. Fifthly, the conditions governing investment policy and their portfolio are described. The sixth is defined as the institution of the depositary and its responsibilities are described. With today's draft law we are called upon to complete and complete our institutional framework for occupational insurance, to enrich our legislation and regulations by introducing modern and operational standards under the European directive, while at the same time safeguarding transparency and accountability, and ensuring the full independence and compensation of the IORPs to their members and beneficiaries. With today's bill, we achieve two main objectives: First of all, we are implementing the full compliance of Greek legislation with European Directive 2341/2016. We are introducing all the provisions of the directive, adapting them to Greek data as it is our fundamental obligation as a Member State of the European Union, and we should have completed for at least one year. Secondly, we must complement, complete and concentrate in a central legislation all the rules that must govern the functioning of IORPs - IORPs, while introducing provision by adopting special ministerial decisions for all the specific points that require special regulations. In this way, by adopting the draft law all the provisions relating to the obligations and functions of IORPs - IORPs will be concentrated in this law. Occupational insurance must be a crucial and fundamental pillar of our pension system. The benefits are varied and multiple, while the insured and the beneficiaries of the programmes have a special and upgraded role, because through the information provided by this draft law, the relationship between the insured person and the fund becomes more direct and more complete, and it ceases to be regarded as a passive counterparty, such as the main social pension funds. Occupational insurance places insured persons at the centre. Control is sufficient, accountability is essential and the great benefit, the insured person and his family, is able to make their own right and well-thinked decisions, which will determine their current and tomorrow's pension fate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to all of us that our country, together with the world, is facing an unprecedented public health crisis and despite the fact that so far we have not been hit as much as other countries, there is no room for reassurance. The Greek Government has been aware of the scale of the problem since the first moment. I have made a full awareness of the seriousness of the situation, even before the problems are perceived by the general population, progressed in organising and taking all the necessary and strict measures at all levels of our social and professional life, in order to limit the impact of the pandemic. Our first goal was from the outset clear and clear. We must protect as many human lives as possible, the cases must be spread over time. That is why we have imposed far earlier in other European countries measures unprecedented for a time of peace. And we continue in this direction, limiting our activities to the absolutely necessary and staying at home. Our second objective was also correct and clear: the health system must be able to withstand, patients must be able to take the care they deserve. That is why we have strengthened and continued to strengthen the health system with recruitment, with an increase in beds, with material supplies, so that nothing is missing from anywhere. Thirdly, we must keep our economy up, we must protect jobs and businesses, the small and medium-sized ones facing the biggest problem. That is why we have allocated more than EUR 3.5 billion to support all workers and businesses, which is why we have almost all the main obligations in the future, and that is why we have ensured that there is no longer a primary surplus of 3.5% and that all expenditure on health and migration is excluded. And last night's results came with the accession of our country to the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme. We are ready for an unprecedented juncture where our homeland is being put and our lives are being threatened. All of us together coordinates, with individual responsibility, but also collective organisation, will be able to make our debts and get the winners out. Two are the elements resulting from the structured and highly professional response to the situation in our country on the one hand from the spread of the virus and, on the other hand, from the migratory crisis in Evros. Firstly, our state and its structures have shown that they can stand up to the circumstances and a clear message has been sent to all those who questioned its seriousness and effectiveness. Secondly, that our country has now acquired strength and recognition in the international and European community as a pillar of stability, emitting confidence, security and certainty. These two elements are the equipment for all of us to strengthen our efforts and to regain the confidence that the Greek people need to cope successfully with every test and to raise our country back on its feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u46	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two minutes will be devoted to asking Mr Brutsi, the Minister, who is here, the measures announced by the government yesterday to deal with the coronary. Mr Brutsis, I would like to ask you - and I hope you will answer -: to those workers who have lost their jobs at the moment because their employers have closed shops after a state mandate, you are giving an allowance of 800 euros for almost two months. Apart from that, what other relief and assistance measures have you taken for these workers? All we've heard is that they'll pay 60% of their rent if they have rent. Do you know what the rents are on the market at the moment? With the EUR 800 you will give them for two months, even if they will be able to pay the rent. How will these people live? Have you realised that you lead them to poverty? Because that's what this is about. EUR 400 a month is under the minimum wage. What costs do you estimate they will pay with the EUR 400 a month and how will they live? With regard to the ban on redundancies, I would like to ask the following questions: First of all, as far as the redundancies have been concerned, will this be the case? Will they cancel self-righteously? And when we say they'll be canceled, what does that mean? In the summer you abolished the justification for redundancies. So an employer when he fires, he doesn't say why. Is it clear that as many redundancies as have been done so far and as many as will be done from now on will happen because of the coronary crisis? And if the employer refuses to do so, he says that "I fired him because he is incapable", where will he be judged? Will it be judged in the Greek courts? Because - as you know - the Greek judges in their majority of cases when the worker asks for annulment of his dismissal, they reject him because they consider that he is a right to be satisfied. So when will it be judged whether the dismissal is void or not, after two or three years in the courtrooms? I think you should take a clear position. And there should be a bill which will solve all of this and give the right to workers who have been made redundant so far and those who have been fired from now on by provisional order in the court, provided that the employer does not comply with your "cheque" of the oral question, that all redundancies are void, that on the same day they can cancel the dismissal by provisional order. You have also taken no action on the number of employers who change contracts from fulltime to parttime. We expect all these unilateral changes to be cancelled, or even with the agreement of the worker, who is the weakest part, and it is understood that in order not to lose his job he will accept anything at this time. For free professionals, too, you have not met their needs at this time. I will talk about lawyers, but we could also talk about engineers - if we had time - for other branches of the professions. As you know, the functioning of the courts of the country has ceased completely, and there are no extrajudicial acts to be done because of the preventive measures we have all taken in our offices. I would like you to see the letter from the President of the Plenary Assembly and to give a solution to this sector, which is severely affected at this time. For the protection of first residence, we have heard nothing. We were expecting to hear something yesterday. We would like to hear in the next few days, because people cannot really lose their homes in the midst of this crisis. Nor did we hear anything, total lack of measures to support the primary sector of the country, the processing and export of agricultural products. Before Mr Kegeroglu told you about the people working seasonally in the tourism sector who, if they had not completed the cuts to get to the unemployment benefit, would not have the opportunity in spring to complete them and would also have a very high cost. And they should also be given a help. Ultimately for the coronary, the situation is difficult. The country needs serious and fundamental consensus and convergence. SYRIZA has taken care of creating the safety pillow so that you can now make all the necessary expenses for the Greek economy and the Greek society. With regard to the draft law and the directive incorporated. As has always been pointed out in the reports of the Parliamentary Scientific Service, the directives are binding on each Member State to which they are addressed as regards the results to be achieved, but leave the choice of the type and the means to be used by the national authorities. Member States are obliged to take national transport measures, while maintaining under certain conditions the freedom to choose the mode of transport. The transposition of the directive into national law does not necessarily require a formal and literal repetition of the provisions of the directive, as you have done. It is sufficient for a general economic framework, which can effectively ensure that the directive is fully implemented in a sufficiently clear and concrete manner. SYRIZA had done this in 2018. A committee was set up in which the Hellenic Association of Professional Insurance Funds participated, the National Analogue Authority, representatives of the Ministry, the Securities Committee and other experts and representatives of the relevant bodies, who came to draft a bill for the proper transposition of the directive, but which was not able to be submitted to Parliament due to political developments. The Ministry has the draft bill, but it has chosen not to use it, for reasons which it has not yet explained to us during the committees. The aim of the Government should not be to strengthen occupational insurance against the first pillar of social security insurance, including supplementary pension. The two pillars should coexist and develop simultaneously for the benefit of future pensioners. SYRIZA's insurance reform first of all provided everyone with a decent pension that would come from social security in line with the principles of equality and social justice, and only in addition and only in addition could one insured person optionally choose to take advantage of the two other pillars of insurance and claim the possibility of additional pension benefits. Unfortunately, the Ministry seems not to address the question of occupational insurance funds with due seriousness and attention. A draft law is adopted which is a faithful translation of the directive with references to several future possible ministerial decisions on the regulation of various issues, but also problems that may arise. This will result in the directive not being able to apply on the basis of the Greek data, since, in fact, and at least to some extent, the draft law is detached from the Greek experience of the existing and future occupational insurance funds, it is unable to function as a natural continuation of Law 3029/2002, while in the broader absence of the strong signal of a clear direction from the legislator. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, I'll need it, Mr. President. The vulnerability of your bill has been pointed out by all the relevant bodies who came during a discussion of the bill in committees. They have told you that it is not enough vague and general provisions, but a single legal guide easily accessible and understandable by the social partners. We believe that, through the incorporation of the new directive, we had a first-class opportunity to create a modern developmental and appropriate framework for professional insurance, which would complement and strengthen strong, sustainable and modern social security. But the way in which the new directive is introduced in conjunction with the new insurance directive leaves no room for optimism even for the most reliable observer. Once again, we have to deal with the curiosity, haste, and the lack of a comprehensive and long-term plan that characterises almost every attempt to legislate your government. As far as the debate is concerned, I will say two things. Article 2 states that this Law does not apply to occupational compulsory insurance funds operating in substitutable subsidiary insurance. The legal persons who have been transformed with the possibility offered by Law 3029 to legal persons under private law, without having joined the Professional Insurance Funds, are explicitly excluded from this law. I'd like you to tell us which law they fall under, which law they're going to operate from now on. Article 4 does not specify whether IORPs can be established with less than a hundred members. Article 21 runs counter to Article 30. Article 21 provides that staff of the occupational insurance funds should have competence and ethos recognised and that there will be a check on this. And Article 30 gives the right to be assigned externally to legal persons whose abilities and morality, you understand, is difficult to measure. Article 9(1)(b) states that the company guarantees the payment of benefits. As a representative of a body who came to the committee, this does not refer to the directive. The directive says that if the company chooses to guarantee payment of some part of the benefits, it is obliged to make some payments. And the approximately nineteen occupational insurance funds currently operating in our country do not guarantee the payment of benefits. The fund is created independently of the company and is autonomous. The company can be a minority in the board of directors. How, then, will it guarantee the payment of benefits? And that is something you need to clarify. Article 15(2) also provides for the form of a mutual undertaking. The law, however, prohibits mutual cooperatives from carrying out life assurance activities. Pensions are a form of life insurance. The law prohibiting it is n.4364/2016. So tell us if you're going to change that, because it's against L.4364/2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u48	And close, 'cause you're way over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, the arrangements under the incorporation directive are undoubtedly an opportunity to reform the National Occupational Insurance Scheme and could, if they had been adapted by the national legislator correctly to Greek reality, be an important tool for the transition of IORPs to a more advanced framework of operation, which would enable them to exploit the single market and to evolve into modern competitive professional insurance bodies. I would point out, however, that it is a disastrous mistake for the government to try to degrade public social security. The first pillar, constitutionally guaranteed, should remain the main and undeniable social protection axis. Thank you and apologise for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u50	The reason is the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. George Mulkiotis for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in times of major crisis, such as the one we are currently in as a country and humanity, it is commonly said that the darkest moment of the night is just before dawn. How far or how close we are to the long day when it comes to the great trial we are experiencing, this remains unknown. We are living unprecedented situations where the strength of the economy and society is being tested, where health is threatened and the lives of the citizens themselves are threatened. The pandemic, however, is not only spreading to people but also to this very democracy, where land and to fight against it, so the efficiency of the state is being tested, but also the institutions are being tested. But political systems themselves are being tested and populists are being separated from those responsible for politicians and citizens. Those who spoke derogatingly about the social state in previous years with the larvae in favour of self-regulated - supposedly - market now see the harsh reality. Everyone today bets on public health services and is right. The National Health System, which, from the outset, has caused the existing health interests, which have been swept away, degraded, undernourished and brought to a crisis with all its problems, has today taken on the sole responsibility of dealing with the cases of this serious disease. All this time the Change Movement with a sense of responsibility, with concrete proposals, supports the country's effort to address the deadlocks caused by the coronary pandemic in health and economy in Greece. At the moment, the NSA keeps Thermopylae and it's not an exaggeration, I keep it again Thermopylae alone with the slightest for his personal needs, with the friendly and psychotic doctors and nurses. Those who were evangelizing until first his perfume through other choices will willingly remain outside this swan. Ladies and gentlemen, the ESS was the basic social conquest of the Greek people after the war. But this is not the time of valuation. Let's get out of this adventure well, and I'll see you again. I hope we will agree to our overwhelming majority that the social state is ultimately our collective property. We must today support this sacred effort by doctors, nurses and workers in our hospitals. Support for these particular, doctors, nurses and workers requires what? First, thorny recruitment of new scientists. We must be able to keep its powers up and not collapse from possible outbreaks of serious illness, but also from cases and from the necessary quarantine, where available, doctors and clinics. Secondly, direct supply from each source of sanitary material, as cases in sanitary matter multiply rapidly. The protection of health life today by means of personal protective equipment is necessary to limit the virus. Thirdly, the every way to supply tests and ensure reagents to detect the coronary. The experience of Germany, South Korea and Singapore has shown that exploring the epidemiological criteria and extending tests to all is the most effective way of preventing them. The government's response to pandemic globally shows that we must put all our weapons at the asymmetrical threat that threatens humanity. The NSA is our big weapon in this battle. Its strength and support is synonymous with the strength of the Greek society, as well as with the social responsibility of the Greek state. Minister, in this context the Change Movement with an amendment, which has already been tabled and distributed, also proposes the practical recognition of the work and the social provision of the health staff of the National Health System in the treatment of pandemic. In particular, the Change Movement proposes the extension of the Barber and Unhealthy Occupational Regulation to all workers as nursing and paramedical staff in units of the National Health System, as well as to EKA ambulance drivers, but also to the workers of privileged structures regardless of the primary insurance body - now integrated into the ECA - from which they come. In addition, the Change Movement proposes as symbolic but absolutely necessary recognition of the titanic work of all workers in the National Health System to grant a monthly emergency allowance for as long as the pandemic and the exceptional situation that has been caused lasts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is announcing - and rightly announcing - support packages for businesses affected by the closure of their activities, but it does not include similar facilities for affected workers and consumers. In order to protect vulnerable groups, as well as to support the financially affected from the spread of the disease, we support as a Change Movement the Association of Workers in Greece of the GFCM which calls on the Government to consider ten consumer facilitators to deal with the crisis, which I put forward in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the Minutes the above proposals, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For example, to give consumers the right to flexible payments of their obligations for a period of six months or at the end of the year, as they are affected by the measures announced. To suspend until the end of the year any fines of late payments to public services and insurance funds. Prolong the operation of each electronic platform and the corresponding rights to submit to it by the end of the year. To suspend auctions and extend the protection of first residence. Unfortunately, the proposal by the President of the Change Movement was not accepted so that there would be a committee for the first residence. Today we would not have talked about it because it was a matter that we would have solved. Not to be deducted from the arrangements for those who have not complied with their obligations in this period until the end of the alarm, since we all know that the regulations in the IGC, EGC, but also many credit agreements, provide for loss of regulation, even for a deferred dose. Consider the long-term prolongation of loan instalments due during this period of exceptional needs. Call on the banks and all service suppliers not to interrupt their services and not to make enforcement measures. Also, the banks, Minister, with electronic transactions, unfortunately, still charge these critical times. Transferring from one bank to another some amount is charged four euros. To stop this critical period. The banks have taken so much of the citizens and have been recapitalised on a number of occasions. To stop this. The electronic transfer is free of charge. Since there is an appeal for an electronic transfer and for an electronic process, let us stop the charge, let the banks at the moment stop having this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has made specific announcements about the workers. Indeed, in a dramatic way yesterday, the Minister - and I was surprised - said that the "ERGANI" system found a tragic situation in relation to employment development. Minister, we point out a few things. Firstly, the situation of pensioners without pensioners has been pending since 2018 and remains dramatic. Since, in view of the situation, satisfaction is not progressing via e-Venezia, you should consider the pensioners who have not been retired in this case as well. Secondly, the prolongation of unemployment for those who end 31 March 2020 should be amended to include the hundreds of seventy thousand seasonal staff who ended the unemployment allowance in January or February and who remain out of provision. These people are being treated unfavourablely, since we know that they would start their work in March 2020, but businesses do not function on the basis of the Legislative Content Act and the CSR issued. Thirdly, all workers whose contract of employment is suspended will receive compensation of EUR 800 at the beginning of April for the period, but of 15 March to 30 April. Minister, the sum of EUR 800, if we take this into account, is indeed less than the minimum wage, and we believe that the government should see this for follow-up. However, why are only those that were closed after 15 March 2020 and not those who closed since 1 March 2020? Why would this unequal treatment exist? Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary - after all that we have mentioned and had all the side effects of the pandemic - the draft law incorporating the European directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions into national law. This is basic Union legislation for the second pillar of insurance setting out the basic framework for the obligations of the Member States relating to the protection of members and beneficiaries of occupational pension benefits, while retaining a wide margin of intervention for the national legislature for the purpose of achieving a higher level of protection. There were many interesting and enlightening meetings in the committees, both by colleagues and by social and scientific bodies, and some failures and anchorages of this draft law have emerged. Unfortunately, it was found by scientific bodies and representatives themselves that the bill is characterised by several imperfect provisions relating both to the failure to correct the imperfections of the previous, existing legislative framework and the lack of new regulations during transposition. Secondly, the reference to nine ministerial decisions on further regulation of matters and the implementation of the proposed regulations will create confusion and deadlock in the implementation of the directive. Thirdly, there was a deliverable text, a legislative initiative, which had been taken in the previous government and was drafted by the then legislative committee, which had so far not been adopted. There seems to be some evidence that the bodies have emphasised in the committees and are not present at this legislative initiative today. In particular, Article 2, Minister, stipulates that occupational pension funds do not fall within the scope of compulsory insurance. And as you know, we have four such funds with a hundred and twenty-five thousand insured and about seventy-five thousand pensioners. They are four funds which have chosen to be converted into compulsory supplementary occupational insurance funds in the form of a legal person governed by private law. That's what's left of it. What is your thinking not to choose them? We asked for it on the first day of the debate. It should be noted that this issue is also raised in the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stresses this point. It's still empty. Please, why don't you incorporate it? Let us know if the House and the interested parties know what the reason was. Article 3, I am afraid, Minister, is in danger of a merger of subsidiary with the occupational insurance funds. We are asking ourselves from the first sitting on this and we have not received an answer until just now. I would also like to ask, Mr Minister, why is this not included in the bill under discussion in Article 4 of the directive? I would like to ask you to inform us in detail of the reasons for the withdrawal of Article 4 of the draft law. The directive must be transposed into national law as it is. Why did you remove a specific article? What's the point? In relation to the third degree of supervision currently in force, namely the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the National Accounting Authority and the Securities and Market Commission, we believe that the national supervision of this second pillar of professional insurance cannot remain fragmented but should be exercised in a uniform manner by a single supervisory authority, with the sole object of supervising the second pillar. You maintain with the bill the existing tripartite supervision. Do you consider it functional and effective as you maintain it? Because most institutions considered it bureaucratic and unfunctional. That is what the committees have said. We would like you to give us an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating does not in any way constitute an overall piece of legislation which might help strengthen the second pillar of insurance in our country. On the contrary, it is a minimum formal act regulating the institution of occupational insurance by incorporating the European directive into national legislation. It is a lost opportunity to regulate and effectively operate the second pillar. And that, unfortunately, will prove very soon. And I am referring to a pillar, which - I repeat - is our basic perception that it must work in a complementary and only complementary, voluntary and in any case non-profit-making, next to the dominant public redistributive system of the main and supplementary pension, next to the first pillar. The institution of occupational insurance should, however, be improved, without under any circumstances calling into question the predominance of public pension schemes for the main and supplementary pensions of the first pillar, nor, of course, withdrawing the State from public compulsory social security. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that despite the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Colleague, don't rush. Yesterday we were talking more comfortable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u53	It's okay. I shall conclude by respecting both the time and the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u54	Just because this situation exists, it has been chosen for two days now to speak at ease.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u55	It's not my business. I'm on my way. Under the responsibility of the Government, an opportunity to modernise professional insurance is lost. The Change Movement, since the bill brings forth a directive of the European Union - that is, it is a mandatory instrument to harmonise national law with European law, a harmonisation that I would like to point out that the previous government had to do by 13-12-2019 but did not do so - it voted in favour of the bill at first instance and, of course, in some articles, if we do not receive a reply from the Minister, we will appreciate our actions along the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Loverdo, let me say something. In trying to clean up and disinfect, I pressed a button that interrupted the time. My colleague spoke much more than the one you see in the table, but I did not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u57	But we've been talking in comfort for days now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u58	As you have seen, it must be more than twice a year. The decision of the Conference of Presidents, however, is, as far as possible, to limit the time of symposia and set an example. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasios, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. And I can misuse a couple more minutes. We are here today with unprecedented conditions for both Greece and the world. What happens all over the planet is not just something unique during our life. It is a shocking thing that will affect the whole of life from now on, as long as the pandemic lasts but then. There will be consequences and consequences of catalytics. We as a Greek Solution and I would personally like to congratulate all the health staff of the country for their efforts to deal with this epidemic. I know exactly what's going on and what's going on. As a doctor I fully understand their professionalism and their fear and oppression. We have already proposed that the medical staff, paramedical, nursing in heavy and unhealthy, as well as doctors, should be included as a pension. Ten years with the Memorandums the national health system has been broken down. Funds have been cut for supplies and equipment. Wages decreased and overtime depleted. With these and many others thousands of doctors were expelled abroad. Now please apply to the EGE in the emergency procedure to deal with the coronary pandemic. Once again, it proves self-evident. Only the official state and state can guarantee the struggle that is being fought, only the official state and state can guarantee our public health. But I would also like to thank our children at the border and the islands that are guarding our country and all Greeks in any case, and they are now continuing to fight our borders inhumane and inhumane interests. We must help them, too, to strengthen them in their fight both in terms of equipment and financially, morally and psychologically. Because they are doing their duty, but they are away from their families and their loved ones in this pandemic that we are in. They receive support from their loved ones and deprive their loved ones of support. Think about how much the burden is! So to all of you, doctors, nurses, army, navy, air force, police, port, fire department, we honor you for your work, we support you and thank you. As far as the coronary is concerned now, you should strengthen the sense of citizens' security. Slowly, fear and concern in people's homes and lives, for their health, for their loved ones' health, for their work, for their finances, for their obligations to third parties. I'm not talking about the banks. I'm talking about rents to be paid, electricity, telephone, drugs, and their lives. And I will say something I have said in committee, but I think it is important. Immediately, provision must be made for those who have symptoms, but who do not yet have the results of monitoring and, as is said, will not have to do the test on mild symptoms, provided that they stay at home, be able to leave work for public health, legal and self-just reasons. Where there is a teleworking capacity, it must be effectively established, especially in services and structures, public and private services provided to third parties and also in intra-corporate when the cooperation between workers is done by computers and e-mails. Security staff need primarily only for technical issues and high and specific administrative supervision and perhaps for intervention. If that happens, people will be at home working and no military law will be imposed with a curfew. The effects on the psychology of the world and its behaviour will be huge in this case. And don't forget what this people have been through ten years now. Now, what about this bill? It has delayed exemplaryly to incorporate the Community Directive 2341/16 and now that the world is literally burning and destroying, we are talking about the institutions of occupational pension benefits. It is an important issue no doubt. It is a fact that is important, but a huge increase in unemployment is expected in the country, a huge increase in time is expected in the country, huge problems in the sense of security in each of us's lives are expected in the country. What kind of professional funds do we need to talk about, then? So, what investment projects do we need to talk about? For what workers and what public finances and what have you financed? What can I say? As has been said, it is a directive that should already have been incorporated into Greek legislation. Of course, this directive is the dynamic of the minimum requirement for implementation, which means that the current government could listen to the institutions, see the Greek reality and adapt the minimum requirements of the directive with increased domestic interest. However, I did not do so by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which has been present in this bill. It brings a directive to the vote which, if anything, is translated, to the extent that many concepts are altered in relation to the original text and the edge. It is also incomplete, since it refers to the future regulation and clarification of concepts and practices by means of ministerial decisions. It is steep, gentlemen, that during those hours that everything in that country is based on the state, the state and the state to face up to challenges and battles, to speak about the second pillar of insurance that its proper and effective function will strengthen state provision, which has artificially over all these years been deceived, undermined and fought. There are contradictions in this incorporation, but also in the government's attitudes. On the one hand, it speaks of forced legislation, since it is a European directive, and on the other hand on the other hand, it does not introduce Article 4 of the directive into the Greek legislative framework at all. This integration does not come to be the continuation of Law 3029/2002, but also introduces new elements that contradict the existing status of the occupational insurance funds and are outside the Greek reality. With regard to the number of a hundred members of Article 4, I will only mention that 96% of Greek enterprises employ less than a hundred workers and therefore it is understood that this subsidiarity is being separated and accessible. The interpretation of Article 5 for the Institute of Professional Pensions is not so clear and, as I said before, there are errors in translation that affect even the very concept of the fund. Now Article 9 and paragraph 1b refer to the financing authority as being committed to regular financing and guaranteeing pension benefits. However, something very important is missing from the original text, namely the fact that the financing authority only assumes these obligations if it chooses to guarantee it and not automatically. There is here, let us say, a contradiction both with the original article and with the concept of the second pillar in itself. Article 12 states that IORPs may manage more than one pension scheme. This, however, is absolutely unacceptable under Law 3029/2002. What's going on here? Why, like, ambiguity? In general, however, in a number of articles such as 4, 12, 14 and 18, we see different speeds for these institutions. In Article 15, you are talking about assets and equity capital of IORPs. You're talking about dividends. Why do you use ‘first line business’ serotypes for something that is not only foreign to the spirit of the second pillar but also the non-profit character of the IORP? Unless something you know and you don't tell us. What does this mutual undertaking have to do with IORPs? In Article 18 regarding the investment framework and practice, you refer to so-called prudent management. You know, in such projects, where workers base their future of life, we need to be more careful and very specific. The limits should also be visible and impermeable. In Rule 21 now I shall say exactly what I have said to the committee, and it must be heard. You are talking about the qualification of ethos and integrity for those who manage and generally engage in supervisory management of pension reserves, hope management and expectation. So you understand that the qualification of ethos and integrity is something general and abstract. Controls and supervision must exist, but from there on there there must be severe penalties and imprisonment without suspension for those who end up or mismanage the troubles of the world. Now for the outsourcing of Articles 30 and 31, we would say that it opens up a chapter and is in private shapes of production, work and therefore business and therefore self-evident and therefore unstoppable. There will be many who want the good of the workers and will ensure their future. In conclusion, I would like to say that the existence of supervisory mechanisms is of course legitimate and I hope it will prove effective. However, the retrospectiveness you enter is not sure that they can find the institutions ready for implementation. Of course, in the relevant articles and in terms of their cooperation, we must expect overlapping and contagion which will make it difficult for the control process and I hope it will not be cancelled. Mr President, Minister, Mrs Michailidou said to the committee the day before yesterday: 'The social state is a collective asset for all of us and the ESS is conquered'. What we are talking about today is the result of the question of the social state and theft, the fragmentation and the reasoning of our property, ladies and gentlemen, by some who have indeed seen everything as conquest and as property for themselves. We don't have a war, we have at least two gentlemen, and the battlefields are absolutely visible and clear. It's public health and our borders. I wish that in a week from now the situation in Greece will be at least the same as today. The Greek Solution is "present" in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u60	We are completing the cycle of rapporteurs and special speakers with the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mrs Maria Apatzidis. You have the floor, my colleague, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk about the pandemic in our country, too. We support all the health measures of the government, of course, and we also call for stricterisation in others, such as the people. Maybe it would be a good opportunity to see that, too. What we have asked, however, is immediate recruitment of about seven thousand doctors and nurses for the ESS. We have requested that the coronary be examined free of charge in the private sector too, that strict measures can be taken to protect the health and nursing staff from the virus, abolishing cash payments, so that the virus is not easily transmitted. That's all for the coronary. I'm going through the bill now. This bill aims to lay down rules on the governance of the Institutions of Professional Pensions and on the supervision of them. The second basic axis of the draft law is the removal of obstacles to the cross-border activities of IORPs and cross-border transfers within the single market resulting from the European Union. We recall that there are generally three pillars of insurance. The first pillar relates to main and secondary public-law insurance, with constitutionally regulated public, universal, compulsory, independent and redistributive character, i.e. contributions financed. The second pillar, which mainly concerns us in this bill, refers to supplementary and voluntary social security schemes and professional funds - occupational pensions. The provisions of this law provide for the possibility of setting up and operating occupational insurance funds as legal persons of a non-profit-making nature. The funds are under the supervision of the Ministry of Employment and Social Protection and control of the National Analogue Authority. The purpose of the Professional Insurance Funds is to provide insurance persons and beneficiaries of supplementary insurance, in addition to the compulsory insurance, in particular for the insurance risks of old age, disability, death, occupational accident, sickness, termination of work and others. In other words, it shields the insured at the same time as public insurance. In view of the above, in order to understand what is happening, we need to stress here in particular, firstly, that access to the insurance of occupational insurance funds is optional, contrary to the compulsory nature of public social security, and secondly, that occupational pension funds operate on the basis of the capitalisation system. Finally, the third pillar is the private insurance programmes that will not concern us here because of time. In order to take a position on this bill, we need to decide what we consider to be the right relationship between the first two pillars that we analysed. To repeat that occupational pension funds are the second pillar. They operate on the basis of the capitalist model with optional participation. In other words, workers are not obliged to be insured in IORPs, as is the case with the principal compulsory insurance. IORPs shall collect funds received from the financing undertaking and the employees who choose to join the scheme. The directive incorporated into national law by this draft law seeks to harmonise the framework for the operation of IORPs throughout Europe and to make them attractive, giving them the potential in the field of insurance. But we now have in many Member States of the European Union suffocating budgetary frameworks. The first pillar of social security, i.e. the redistributive system, is thus under enormous pressure. The state is unable to respond. In this context, the enthusiasts of private insurance hope that the second pillar will become the de facto dominant, thus fulfilling their objective, which is the optionality of public redistributive insurance. However, occupational insurance can only work socially optimally as optional and as subsidiary of main insurance. Otherwise the principle of solidarity between generations is abolished in practice and social security is transformed essentially into individual and capitalistic. In the capitalisation system, the contributions constitute savings of the insured person not used to finance pensions of others, except for his own. The contributions of insured persons shall be kept in individual units of insurance. The total amount of individual shares is allocated for investment in specialised managers, these are invested in capital products and these funds are theoretically increased each year with the annual contributions of the insured person and the returns. They accumulate and create the total capital of each insured person and the amount of the pension depends on the amount of the contributions, the years taken by the worker and the employer, the management carried out in the capital and an important factor is management. On the contrary, the redistributive system is based on the tripartite funding that exists just to normalise the absence of desired returns on investment funds, whether because of failure to manage, or because of external factors, such as the global economic crisis. In conclusion, as a PART25 we are extremely sceptical, as the bill wants to make the second pillar as the de facto sovereign. This, however, is completely changing the balances so far. Public and redistributive insurance, as we know it, tends with this bill towards optionality. For Mera25, the main insurance is important. It is for the national court to determine whether the person concerned is a national of a Member State of the European Union or a national of a Member State of the European Union and whether the person concerned is a national of a Member State of the European Union or a national of a Occupational insurance can only function socially as an optional subsidiary of primary insurance, otherwise fundamental principles of insurance are undermined and eliminated in practice, as we know it, such as the ancient solidarity of generations. Social security is essentially transformed into individual, which is at the expense of the weaker. It is, in fact, a class policy. We are particularly critical of the innovation of cross-border activities introduced by the IORP Directive Articles 10 and 11. Cross-border activities allow the financing company to finance a fund outside the country of establishment. The pension scheme, however, is governed by the labour and social legislation of the host country, i.e. the country in which the enterprise is established. The company ‘alpha’ based in Greece, but its employees have their IORPs in another Member State, for example in Germany or Luxembourg. The problem of the matter is that the European Union does not yet have a capital market union to speak of a common institutional framework of operation throughout the European Union. The Directive allows many core IORPs, such as Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, to accept financing and manage capital funds from companies and workers from countries in the region with high debt and high risk. In this context, we see an ongoing attempt to transfer capital from the region to the core. For these reasons, as a PART25, we will vote against the bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u62	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, is called at Step for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to say something that is reasonable and perhaps it should concern us all. Today’s Greek media, but many of us, not long ago, used to be abusive, called them a bookcase for doctors and nurses. What a story I've seen about freckles, how bad people were doctors and how fate has them, you know, today we all thank them for what they're doing. I do not know if it is hypocritical, but I know at least that it is human to say thank you. After so many tons of mud at the expense of an entire industry, doctors, nurses and those who are struggling today to keep the health system up, the people who buried public health, the people of the New Democracy, come today. Because she was buried, closing too many hospitals. The Prime Minister was talking about seven thousand nine hundred redundancies. And now they're being beaten. You know, from the squirrels to the mushrooms it's a small 90-degree distance. I'm telling it honestly with soul pain. Because an apology has not been demanded by the New Democracy for what it has done for ten, twelve years in the health system. To invoke, of course, the PASOK and the genome - made health system, which was an excellent health system, but we all buried it together. I say this to the media, the hypocritical media, which find a doctor who actually violates the Hippocrates' oath - violates him asymmetrically - and generalizes the specialist and does it as a general picture. This must make us all very careful, because - you know - the media can today say 'live' to the New Democracy, but tomorrow, before the spiral comes out - if it comes out at some point - they will bury you all together. Such a thing I, frankly, have not seen in regimes so much applause from the media about a government. Even SYRIZA didn't even have it at first. You had a SCAI who did the other work of the New Democracy. They don't have anything anymore. You have all the media. Whether you're doing it wrong or do it well, it's all right. And I'll prove it to you because you're doing it wrong. Now, for the bill, I don't want to say anything, because for me every bill has to have a social sign. I, Minister, am looking for the social person and I can't find it. At such a juncture, Minister, - I am 'in favour of' the choice of private security - that the planet is being shaken and economically Greece has huge problems, what you are going to do is tell you what it means: foreign insurance companies will come and take all the funds abroad with private security. If we had a strong economy, clearly I would be ready, because it needs the climate. When you have a choice, my Minister, you need to see the general and overall climate. The climate is negative, so you don't choose to do it now. Leave it for a year later. We're not burned. And do not tell me about Community directives because there are infinite Community directives which do not apply. Let's go to the big deal. Friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, when the banks had a problem, we reviewed them three whole times. Now it's all about the economy, not just the shops that closed and we're doing nothing. I'll prove it to you because we're not doing anything. Of course, this story of the coronary, Mr. Loverdos, is abrupt and obscene of globalization, the one that many so much worship in here, the movement of capital, individuals, the transport. And if you see where she started and where she went and how she went, you'll see that it's the way of silk curiously: China, Iran, Turkey, Greece, Italy. The first countries to deal with the major issue. So let's look at this story a little more, see if we can figure out why and where all the things that are going on around us are due. I don't conspire, but it's a reality. Now we're going to the financial measures. Minister, will you freeze the instalments of housing loans, yes or no? That's what I want. Dose of housing loans to freeze. When I don't have a job, I can't pay my loan. I can't pay my loan. I don't have a job, I don't have any money. How am I gonna pay? This infamous, anonymous suspension of auctions I have given the Prime Minister to take place. I hear measures from the Greek Government, but I see them as very reproaching measures. Reset the setting of the hundred and twenty doses. They're proposals of the Greek Solution. We put them here too. We filed them with the Prime Minister. We're reintroducing them once again. It ended in October. Until 30-9-2020 it shall apply. Why shouldn't it? Extension up to 30-9-2020 percent-dollar adjustment to insurance funds. It shall expire on 31 March. Suspension of instalments and payment of interest to banks and natural persons, Minister. Move it to the Prime Minister. Up to 30-9-2020 at least a suspension of payment of current insurance contributions and tax liabilities. To be done by 30-9-2020. We are telling you concrete measures, because the economy is not misleading, but it is falling apart and talking to you by a man who is not a civil servant, but to the group of businesses that I run or am run or do - it doesn't matter - there are hundreds of workers, but I cannot respond to all of this to pay the workers. The price that gives me for the workers is poor in relation to the costs I have. Application of subsidy measures notified for workers and freelance professionals. Why shouldn't the freelance professional take that measure and only the workers take it? Suspension of a tax advance payment for 2019? Why don't you inhibit it? Why don't you do it? So, you're on a dosage like doctors? Dosage of drugs are you giving us? Make a mold of it, Minister, and tell the Prime Minister and don't make an announcement every day. Every day a Minister comes out and announces measures. Do thirty specific measures, not five, five, five, five, dosing to play in the channels. I know that game myself. Communication game you play and it is shameful to play with people's pain. Reduction of VAT on first-hand goods. When I told the Prime Minister in the conversation we had, he said, 'we can't do it'. He did in masks and antiseptics, for which antiseptics and masks, of course - I will say it directly - the shamefulness has become Champions League has become a championship. I mean, Mr Minister, this. Let us see the basic types of consumption, nutrition. He's sitting at his house, he's got nothing to do, he can't go anywhere. Let us give him the opportunity to keep the price of food low. Make the VAT low. Why don't you do it? Support the heroic nurses. Nurses and police are complaining that they don't have masks, they don't have protection suits. Every day I hear them, Minister. They have nothing, they don't have gloves. They don't have anything. Well, the squirrels and applause at nine o'clock at night, but you better tell them "we don't applaud you, but we help you so you don't have a problem" after you have nurses and doctors in hospitals and we have a little staff. If it goes off and the little one we have, it will be crispy, as we say, in any case the whole health system. Money for hospitals, new beds, lots of things you have to do. Here, of course, beyond financial support for doctors and nurses, there is another issue. Have you, ladies and gentlemen, gone to the Cricket or to the various penitentiary stores? There's nothing wrong with people there or antiseptics they don't have, gloves they don't have, they don't have anything, they don't care about anyone in here, they don't care about us. Why, Minister? Can you tell the Minister responsible to look at where the penitentiary officials are shaking where they will touch and how they will touch? Why? What for? You tell me. Because we're filled with antiseptics in the House? It also gives me particular impression, Minister, the joy with which Mr Stagioras announces the enormous successes of Mr Mitsotakis. We're talking a lot of joy. Such joy I've never seen her before in my life and they come out and the means and they mourn you, you say, and you are the image of Jesus Christ and our Virgin Mary, the Right! I say that, right, I do. Measures of EUR 9.2 billion have been taken by Portugal for workers and liquidity. Portugal is like Greece. How much did you get? You got 2-2.5 billion. Portugal has taken 9.2 billion, and I will now say exactly what the other countries are doing, if New Democracy wakes up, because it is good for the livanizing of the channels, but we really need to see the real economy. Spain: Loans - guarantee - 20% of GDP 20% of its GDP gives it guarantees. The government will provide 117 billion, the rest of the large private companies. Spain 117 billion. We go to measures: there are 100 billion state credit guarantees and unlimited liquidity for businesses, what we tell you, as a Greek Solution. If you don't give me liquidity inside the company, I won't be able to pay. Understood. It's unbelievable what's going on. You pledge me not to fire anyone - and you're doing well in a company - but you don't give me any incentives to tax or other so that I can survive. Because it will "shine" when it does not have revenues from a company and has only payments in a period of recession. The simplest of all I'm telling you, Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy. But who am I telling? Mr. Stavros, as far as I know, a life of the Minister of Finance is. Well, look at the real economy, not on paper. Italy: 25 billion ECU. I'm telling you numbers. Of course, all these measures are not just paper measures, Minister, but they are measures for the recovery of the economy, which indeed has a problem. If you go out and look at the stores, it's all closed. This means not a single euro cash machine. He doesn't beat a single euro. You ask him for insurance contributions, ask him to pay his loans, ask him to pay his employees. Because you do not give him the full amount of wage costs, you give him part of the wage cost. How can he handle it? What's wrong with him? Does he have his grandfather's pounds in the cave to go get them out and give them away? I say this in very simple terms, and you understand what the tragic mistakes are. The European Central Bank: About 750 billion euros Greece will receive 12 billion euros. From the 750 billion Greece will get 12 billion, when only tourism will lose 16 billion if history continues. So, who are we kidding? And he's coming out, and he's happy! We got 12 billion. The Prime Minister's treacherous personal success of 12 billion. Our revenues from tourism are only 16 billion, in which, if this story continues and we have cancellations, we will not get a single euro. Do you realize that it's not the right policy you're doing? You're policying the camera, not the economy. You make a policy for the journalist, for the channel and not for the worker or the businessman. Let's get a little serious. Star for quantitative relaxation: "We did what Tsipras did in 2015." But until yesterday, we weren't inside. And the New Democracy has failed in this matter too. Who are you kidding? Stop saying half the truths. It also calls for national consensus by Mrs Xinogiannakopoulos, Mr Stavuras and the Prime Minister, at the same time, opposed the opposition to the opposition. I mean, these are incredible things, Minister. You want national unity from us and at the same time, you put the arrows on SYRIZA, who made mistakes, yes, but we need to be united. There is no point in confronting, there is only a reason for proposing that we propose to help you. You are actually taking short-lived measures. In Italy we have reached the point, and I was reading yesterday at the CORRIERE DELLA SERA, ladies and gentlemen, that doctors should choose who dies and who lives. If we get to the point here and we, I don't know who's capable of making that decision. And that was where Italy, as the doctors themselves say, because they went through the same thing as us, with the surpluses, with the implementing laws, with the memorandum that Germany imposed on it by its nazi behaviour in the context of its theory of "numbers to prosper and people to die". So that's what we can see here, and I don't wish it. Europeans have been chasing the surpluses, and we now have a surplus of the dead! Do we understand that? It was the goal of surpluses, and now we have a surplus of dead people every day! It's, honestly, all the things that go unbelievably. I will not tell you what the TUI announced. I will not tell you, because 'TUI' has about thirty - forty major hotels in Rhodes and Kos. He's carrying three million tourists. How's Germany? It supports 'TUI' with its own money, as it did with 'Thomas COOK' indirectly. The state of Germany gives them money to support them. The Greek Government, the Greek state, what does it do for all this? I wonder what we're doing in here? Are we talking about each other and? You copy your copy, Mr. Ministers, Mr. New Democracy. I say in the Minutes what we have proposed to the Prime Minister - for the first time I do - and what he has implemented. We told you about the migration structure closed in uninhabited islands. You did the closed structures. We told you armored Typhoon. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Gentlemen of the New Democracy, Minister, I will not call the Prime Minister. You'll do it. One and a half years ago a ship was seized, "Handad 1" in Crete. He had hundreds of thousands of guns and bullets. This ship and the guns, what happened? For what I said with the armoured, New Democracy and the channels are happy today. I announced it to him. The Prime Minister did not know that they rustle the armoured and all the channels yesterday showed that at the Prime Minister's command they went there. Who told him? None of your Minister knew anything. We told him, the Greek solution. We had armored ready for Evros and rotted down in Piraeus. So today I tell you about hundreds of thousands of weapons that were committed by SYRIZA and we don't know where they are. They were bound, seized in Crete by the ship "Handad 1". Find out where these guns are. I keep saying this to close, because I saw Mrs. Gennamas too. I want to hear her, too, Mrs. Gennamas today. Well, listen to other suggestions. Benefits to those who offer services during the crisis. Let me tell you straight away. We have nurses, who are graduates. Tell them: "Come on, help now at the time of the crisis", Minister, they have a degree in people, "Let's see that in the next competition you will be one of the first to be recruited". Give molecule, if we need nurses. Say: How many you have degrees, come in check for a week, get in the nursing establishments and we here modulate you as a state and thank you with a paper that if the contest takes place then we will hire you immediately. What's simpler than that, guys? Christ and Holy Mary are so hard to think about? So hard? I don't understand. I told the Prime Minister about the collecting companies. He did it, good for him. You can see, then, that there are proposals from the opposition that you must apply, but not from generic point of view. I said to reduce VAT, he did. Company rent, he did. It's not just the rents of companies, all of which you had to do, because a shop that doesn't close, like my own shop and I keep it upright I pay rent, I have five - six rooms I rent. Shouldn't I have a motive to stand up and pay the employees? How am I supposed to stand? I'll go, too. I could also give other suggestions, such as wage costs. We are the only country, Mrs. Gennamas - and see this and you are proposing to the Prime Minister and you - that does not pay the full wage costs. All the countries of Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Spain are guided by the fact that all wage costs will be borne by the State. In Greece it gives a percentage. What's the percentage? All the wage costs of guaranteeing the state, last but not least, will collapse other companies than the ones you booked. I would also say a lot of things, but I want to stay here - and I close here - with a subject that I read yesterday in the media. If you do not check on food indifference, we will have food increases of 30% and 40%. Take out workshops and even check out the supermarkets. There's a big deal on the market, I'm telling you to know, citizen complaints. Check. Remove VAT from all foods to lower prices. At the level of judgment and in a period of crisis you do the same thing, you do not do that either. All you do is go out with skype on the channels and bless each other, what a good thing the Prime Minister's doing. The other Minister's coming out tells how nice it was that Adonis was doing. He says, "Adonis for the Minister, "What good is the Minister doing?" Guys, stop the lyvanizing between you guys, because in the end, we'll be savage by the outsiders. Stop it, finally. And of course, to tell you something about the coronary, you found a chance, and the settlement of the country continues. Yesterday, we had a hundred seventy arrivals from the Aegean Sea. We also had thirty-five people from Nepal, which Nepal, because many people here say that they are unhappy people, are a forty-second position compared to Greece, which is on the eighteenth 89th on Happy Planet, that is, they are one of the happy people. They're poor guys and they're coming here. These are more than us happier. We are unhappy and are in the country of the unfortunate Nepaliots, from Nepalis, with a higher Gini index of 32.8% and 36% Greece. So all those who come here are neither poor nor intimidated nor poor. The problem with us is that we have a settlement, and I'm hitting a risk bell because we're lightly grinding the heart around, and I'm closing here. Why did you deceive the browns, my Minister, you know? Mr President, I told the Minister about the ship they arrested a year and a half ago with the weapons in it and nobody knows where it is. I told the Prime Minister about the armored and fortunately he heard me and took them to Evros. Hundreds of thousands of guns were confiscated with "Handat 1", a truck that was going to Libya. Nobody knows where the guns are, I've been looking for two or three months. Tell the Prime Minister to look because this is a little strange. Did some scientists take them and sold them themselves from customs? I'll say. Hundreds of thousands of weapons. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I close, saying: Why did the forest of Kastani by command of the Turks, the poachers, the poachers, the illegal immigrants who want to shut up by flying molotovs in Greece you know? For those who have gone to the army, women may not know, a forest is difficult to cross armoured, very difficult, it is a line of defense for that at the border they also put forests. They dehumidated it as if it meant something was going on in the area. They've demolished, Mr. Loverdo, the entire forest of the Castanes. You guys went upstairs. It's over the woods from this side, they cut it out every day. That means they're preparing something. If, then, they are preparing something, we must be ready not to be caught unprepared. I see the New Democracy dealing with all other issues, but with matters relating to the State and the nation itself you are not dealing with. Don't be epilepsy because we had four economic crises, we went bankrupt four times, too many times, but we survived because there were Greeks. If you continue to bring illegal immigrants to Greece, illegal immigrants - because they are not all refugees or immigrants - the Greeks will end and there will be no Greece. When there are no Greeks, there are no Greece, Greece exists only with Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u65	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. I just want to testify a legislative improvement regarding the mathematical type of LEPETE, because it had not appeared well because of topographical printing. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Fofi Gennimata, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing unprecedented moments in Greece, in Europe, throughout the world. The pandemic trys everything, public health, society, the economy, people's own relations. He's testing our strengths, the ability of the political system, the functioning of health systems. Everyone's talking about war, about an invisible and insidious enemy. It's like we have a "black swan" that changes the flow of history and the world, as we knew it to this day. It's been a difficult day, but we're all in and out of this room together, we're fighting for our lives, for the lives of our children, for the grandparents and the most sensitive, and for all those who give a parallel battle of their own, and they're the vulnerable groups. We support the National Health System and, of course, its people. We support all those who work every day so that we can stay at our home, for all that they do for us, for their daily struggle, a great thank you through my heart. Ladies and gentlemen, we are optimistic, we will all overcome this adventure together. We're staying at home today so we can get out in a little while and be happy, work, get all of our lives together. He wants courage, he wants honor, he wants self-responsibility, he wants all of this together, he wants all of us together, not enough. He wants responsible political forces with conscientiousness and unity. We are therefore responsible for this fight within the framework of the democratic principles and the values of our culture. We're not setting up a modern woman to achieve immunity, I'm being foolish, I'm saying herd. With cooperation at national and international level, which is the key to monitoring the situation. Let us not have any doubt, the way in which we deal with this crisis will determine the next day in the country that is sure, that everything will be different. We have asked for decisive measures in time without exceptions. We support the 'We are staying at home' and all the measures proposed by the relevant scientific committees. We contribute with our own positive proposals to the effort and insist, it is extremely important for all the measures announced to be implemented, but also for intensive controls to be implemented. At the time, however, when we say that we have war, we have to support, in practice, the fighters of the front line, the National Health System and its workers who are up all the weight. The National Health System, the NHS, is now becoming the great weapon for us, for all of us. The National Health System bearing indelibly the seal of PASOK. This is the important offer of our resignation, institutions at the service of people with lasting and time-consuming value. Why? Because we think so, so we learned how to function. The ESS, the public health system today is the flagship in the fight for public health, in the fight to save human lives. Those who, as of yesterday, tried to pay off, confessing for the market and clearly supporting private interests, let them make their self-criticism and I hope they have changed minds. Everyone is talking today about its support, but the support it requires right now, in these exceptional circumstances, not vague declarations, but very specific acts that need to be done here and now. So, Prime Minister, we must make sure that the gratitude is not left to words, but move to action. It is necessary to do all the announced recruitments of medical, nursing and all the necessary health personnel to open up hundreds of closed beds of Intensive Therapy Units and to create new, in the centre and in the region. Ensure additional hospital beds throughout Greece. To operate a hospital per region only for patients with a coronary. It is necessary to protect workers in the National Health System. Finally, supplies of all necessary health material to protect workers in hospitals, masks, costumes, gloves, disinfectants. And of course they will be frozen everywhere, beyond the decisions - there we are delaying, in practice - the hospitals and at primary level all the actions that are not urgent. To carry out a virus test on all strains of the National Health System, with the slightest symptom, regardless of the quarantine. It is a catastrophic mistake, ladies and gentlemen, to suspend controls on health workers in contrast to the instructions of the World Health Organisation. Already the price paid by the system officials is extremely heavy, and cases and a dead one already. And all this, as you can see, has an impact on the functioning of the system, so in the hospitality of the citizens. Consumable doctor, nurse or nurse means consumable patient in practice. As far as the measures are concerned, we have tabled concrete proposals to the Prime Minister himself. I won't repeat it. In the strategic choice that we made as a country, the tough restrictive measures, we need all the information that will make us better at dealing with the virus. We have asked, among other things, for at least one week now to be included in the single design for the test and the private centres and, if necessary, on a tariff fixed by the state to be covered by the EEA. We must finally tackle speculation. With the test and isolation, as the WHO says - we do not - limit the spread of the virus to the community. To multiply control points for the coronary, involving primary care services. We hear all these days that they are going to adopt our proposal for groups - mobile workshops - of the primary level that they will do, with specific criteria and appropriate equipment, visits and sampling at home. It is extremely useful to implement it. Only in this way will we have a real picture, get away from the danger of fictitious image and reassurance for sure. We'll feel safer and keep the coroner out of hospitals as much as possible. We're listening and we're applauding. It will be a very important step in this war. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all applauding the employees in the ESS, but it is not enough. They need practical support. As a minimum sign of recognition, but also of the restoration of a gross injustice, our parliamentary group has now tabled a provision of law in the form of an amendment extending the regulation of heavy and unhealthy professions - which is already in force in the private sector - to all workers as nurses and paramedics in all units of the ESS, to the EAW and to the prosthetic structures. I would remind you here that the PASOK Government had launched this in the crisis. We have not been able to implement it in practice and it has not been implemented since then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u69	The private sector has been implemented, Madam President, since 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u70	The private sector was implemented on our own initiative in 2011. In addition, it is proposed to grant a monthly special allowance as long as the exceptional conditions last for all workers of the National Health System. We call on the government and all political forces to support our proposal. I think the circumstances require it. The vote and its implementation are an act of responsibility for all of us, and it will belong to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it necessary to refer to western Macedonia. Entering the Hall I was informed that there is another dead person who comes from this area. It's one of the areas where the epidemic gets threatening proportions. The government urgently needs to intervene in a special step on the ground to coordinate the actions. There is a distance from the very good scientists' decisions in their implementation and in the involvement of all the co-responsible bodies, so that they can be implemented. And that's what needs to be tackled yesterday! Specific planning is also required for islands, for immediate health and economic coverage. They are concerned that they have no potential on the ground, especially the small islands. I have complained from the mayor that tourists, particularly from Italy, arrive in our remote Aegean islands. How did they get there? Who did they check from? Why didn't anyone stop them? What if there are cases on such a small island? They have no chance of dealing with them, they don't even have qualified doctors. I'm hitting the alarm bell. This is an extremely important matter. Ladies and gentlemen, if we recognise that we are in a specific war, we also need a war economy, because the negative effects on the economy, businesses and workers will remain after the Krone crisis. We'll be here talking for a long time. I know that right now, everyone's agony and mind is focused on pandemic, but we'll all find it in front of us and we need to start getting ready. Therefore, it needs an emergency plan with forward measures, given that 2019 was closed at a particularly anaemic rate of growth, just 1.9% of GDP, far behind and the most pessimistic targets. And we were away from the targets before the coronary. I would like to point out that. Alas, if the logic of 2008 prevails again in Europe 2020. Alas, if national egos and strategies dictate once again austerity and the perception "Let each one go by himself in his own country, in his own home". The responsibility of each Member State so that this does not happen again is enormous, but it is a historic responsibility for Germany and France. Yesterday evening's intervention by the European Central Bank with the special programme for the purchase of state-owned securities of 12 billion for Greece is a positive development, although the recent Eurogroup has effectively left every country alone to face the crisis, refusing to definitively revise the Stability Pact. Unfortunately, the government has taken a long time to celebrate rather than now claim to reduce the objectives of the overcrowd on a permanent basis. And I wonder why Mr Mitsotakis insists on not even claiming the necessary measures from Europe, when he has even started using extremely dramatic tones in his arguments and highlighting the vulnerability of the Greek economy toward the outside? He's got to do it. We often say that our resistance as an economy is similar - if you see it in relation to Germany - is as much as a child has against the coronary and an elderly. We're not the same. Our needs are much larger. And I wonder if the Prime Minister really thinks we can handle it ourselves with this Armageddon. We will come back for these issues next time. However, once the Eurogroup has given us a financial space for 2020, there must be a radical change in the budget, so that the National Health System, the Public Investment Programme that is crumbled, can be effectively supported by the businesses and workers affected by the crisis. Yesterday the government announced a number of measures, including proposals we have tabled as a Change Movement, but with some delay. That is why we stress the need for their immediate implementation, especially those relating to the ESS and the workers. No aid to businesses who are made redundant! There are, however, important issues openly. The main issue is the liquidity in the economy and the role of banks. Here in the economy - but in the economy, I stress - we should follow the example of Spain, that is to say, for small and medium-sized enterprises, state guarantees for interest-free or low-interest loans by banks and subsidies with state guarantees. We were surprised to hear the Finance Minister confine himself to recommendations to the banks. The government must be imposed on banks that were even yesterday sealing cheques instead of freezing the 'TECH'. And they continue to abusive charges in electronic transactions, when the vast majority of Greek citizens choose to make use of electronic transactions. It must end the horrific gain! It is also necessary to suspend seizures and auctions immediately and, of course, to extend the protection of the first residence of the weaker borrowers, those who prove themselves unable to meet their financial obligations. Measures to suspend obligations must also apply to all companies operating, but have a very large reduction in their turnover. Suspension of doses and for natural persons who were aware at 31/12-2019. Ensure that thousands of borrowers strive to regulate their loans with banks and funds. I'm coming to tourism. Already the first months are gone. We should go to support tourist enterprises with tax and insurance measures and also with their employees. Unemployment benefit must be continued for those who took it and the signals provided for in it should be drastically reduced after the tourist season. I have pointed this out to the Prime Minister himself, and I know that he has noted it, but it has to be done because there will be a problem. Special attention must be paid to agricultural, livestock and aquaculture enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close as I started. We will, however, face the crisis without discounts on our democratic principles and functions. That is why I consider it unacceptable that the majority of the government should try to abolish the parliamentary control which is the expression of accountability and social control. Fortunately, with the firm attitude of the parties, it has been prevented. Prime Minister, I really wonder - I do not understand - where and why these undemocratic logics have been expelled. Parliament's vote on the motions for resolutions will be taken at the next part-session. As far as the Change Movement is concerned, we have chosen the difficult but nationally responsible road. That dictates our patriotic duty. So we will continue to contribute to the joint effort by exercising responsibility for opposition. This is our role in these so crucial conditions for our country and our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. We are now continuing with the parliamentary representatives. Is there anyone who wants to talk first or go from the end to the beginning?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u72	Backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u73	Backwards, good. Now Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor from Mera25 for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation into Greek legislation of a European directive on the activities of the Institutions of Professional Pensions, which are essentially the second pillar of insurance and operate on the basis of the voluntary model of capitalisation, which, however, are clearly won by this initiative. And given the current and day-to-day depreciation of public insurance, the second pillar is very likely to soon be the dominant in the field of insurance. However, this could not happen if we were to succeed in achieving the holistic reform needed by the social security system. For us as a PARTA25, the redistributive universal and public nature of the insurance system is and should be at its bilateral level, with the state guaranteeing its viability and its adequacy. Unfortunately, what we have understood from all the legislative initiatives of the New Democracy so far is that the public nature of the insurance system is questioned, with insurance continuing to be treated as a set of benefits that still have scope for containment. With all the legislation of the new government, which the Minister for Labour has put to the vote, we have seen even greater reductions in rights, including those of vulnerable groups, women, who are insured, regardless of their fund, without any guarantee of the adequacy of the pension and insurance system. If we go, ladies and gentlemen, a little back to the start of the 2010 crisis or even a little earlier, in 2007-2008, we will see from then on the continuous and stable depreciation of the insurance system, the undermining of the funds, the fragmentation of their reserves by investing in structured bonds, the more tripling of their deficits and the continuous adjustment of their benefits to the insured. What, though, did we not see happening? We had no attempt to interconnect the insurance company with demographics, no measures to support the family, the working mother, the single parent family, no significant initiative to stimulate employment, especially young people and the long-term unemployed. On the contrary, we have seen the growing Brain drain that has led to the desertification of the country with considerable potential, which could help Greece to decapitate from the regime of debt-government, to have gone away. And those few who chose to stay in the country were called and are called upon to live with continuous reductions in remuneration and seeing the continuous and constant circumvention of their work acquired. Now you are trying to incorporate in our legislation a directive that will strengthen professional funds and private security, as IORPs have been established and established with the aim of providing pension benefits in the context of a professional activity on the basis of an agreement or contract concluded with the members who make them up. In fact, it is worth mentioning something of particular interest: Unlike depreciation and increasing deficits in public insurance providers, we can note that over the past five years the EIF reserves have increased by 40% and from EUR 135 million to EUR 1.6 billion. How many of our fellow citizens will be able to contribute more to such private pension schemes? How many will be able to contribute when the level of savings in Greece today is negative? In particular, if we look at the figures for 2019, the household savings rate, i.e. the gross savings of households as a percentage of their gross income, was -3%. So we've got savings consuming what's left of them. How many, then, will be able to become members of such institutions? Very few. Only those who still have the economic opportunity to do it or a little more, who, seeing that public security has been devalued, will choose it as a solution, seeing that they cannot take any real care, despite the reservations that continue to be made to them, since the public social security system, main social security and subsidiary, has now been crushed by the austerity and unthinkable primary surpluses in which our country has been enslaved. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today introduces all those arrangements that allow the development of the ETEs by domestic and foreign enterprises to be granted to the private initiative an additional place for the development of occupational pension schemes. We thus have the first steps towards the overall prevalence of private insurance through the backdrop, this strengthening of the second pillar of occupational insurance. The only way professional insurance will work in a way that is socially optimal is as optional, that is, subsidiary of main insurance. Otherwise, any concept of generations’ solidarity, in fact, is abolished, with social security becoming practically individual. Such a practice finds us and will continue to be opposed to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. The current draft law, although not decisive because it is not compulsory to provide insurance for such funds, as originally mentioned by New Democracy officials, by Mr Metarakis, if I remember correctly, may be the preamble to the adoption of an institution that can be made compulsory in the future, while deducting contributions from public insurance funds and from the domestic economy, since, as we understood, these funds will be foreign and used by foreign professional speculators. Clearly, though, it's not. So more clarity would be required. Next problem is that they will invest in the Stock Exchange, which in Greece is something worse than insecure, as it seems in recent years and especially in the last month, while there will be fear of stealing the money of the insured through their deception, as we have seen in many cases in the world, including the 'AIG', when there has been the great crisis of 2008 in the American economy. So he can't help but be cautious, especially if he doesn't believe in capitalism - casino. We therefore vote'residents' in principle. In this capitalism - casino now, it seems, the crack on the stock exchanges, both in Greek and international, will be attributed to pandemic, since people always want to load their own responsibilities on others or on something else. For example, our government, which did not even think about banning open sales in time, short selling, how much more the stock exchange closes, while it will yield the recession that already existed since the fourth quarter of 2019 in the pandemic. This recession may exceed 10%, since it took no measures and claimed that our debt is viable, nor did it change our failed economic model. In today's forecast of a German bank, the recession in the European Union is estimated at 24% for the second half of 2020, in the United States 19%, an average of 12% in the world and 28% in Germany. Perhaps this provision of the German bank is excessive, but we will do well to take our measures, considering that it is possible for Greece to reach 10%, which will further our debt and, at the same time, our deficits. Continuing, perhaps we should remember here the responsible Nea Democracy named during the fires in Elias, the King Wind or the illegal immigration that doubled in the first two months of its government, in the Turks, because it did not think about forging our borders, so that today it has evolved into an attempt at mass invasion, both in Evros and in our islands, which are now being placed with sapiocara full of invaders. Not with inflatables so we don't pierce them, obviously. One of these sapiacarava arrived to Gia without being noticed by anyone, and then threw it on the rocks and the port rescued illegal immigrants. This is a new method for which we must be fully prepared. So, as the crisis of low collateral mortgages in 2018 in the United States and then it was attributed to greedy speculators, while in reality it was due to the deregulation of markets that had irresponsibly ceased to be controlled by the States or the European debt crisis of 2010 that was attributed to the so-called 'Greeks' and the 'bells' Greeks, not the non-cohesive and mortal euro system, as well as the hostility of Germany, coupled with the falsification of ELSTAT's data, so the current one has already been attributed to the Chinese pandemic, worldwide, with many chances of finally being called the 'crowd'. This, at least, is concluded by the statements made by many governments, including Greeks, who continue to say that public debt is sustainable, and it does not really care about red private, despite the fact that it is far the largest in world history. The same government that contributed the maximum with PASOK to deforestation of the health system, so that many innocent Greeks are today invited to pay for it with their lives. The same government that has no opportunity today to give serious support to the economy, saying that it will spend just EUR 2 billion, our own money, when Portugal is spending EUR 9.2 billion and Germany over EUR 500 billion. The government has again placed its hopes on supporting the European Union's bankrupt Greece in 2012 to rescue the German and Italian banks, and it is intended for a concentration camp of illegal immigrants, having closed its own borders with Greece. The same government which, instead of reducing VAT to the basic foods, such as milk, bread, etc., has cut it down in plastic gloves and contraceptives, while its ministers do not hesitate to be theatrical, I am sorry to say, with breathing protection masks on televisions, instead of protecting the Greeks from the bitterness found both in masks and in petrol, which is still extremely expensive, with barrel oil yesterday at $21. Greece needs serious politicians, not theatres, and under no circumstances any governments who know that "the administration is predicting" and who take no protection measures. For example, the creation of capital reserves when the ten-year bond was less than 1%, and today it is approaching 4% or the country's declaration in an emergency situation with Article 78 of the European Union, which we had in good time when the violent settlement of our islands was found, through the massive invasion of Turkish illegal immigrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you for the time too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u78	More than that, Mr President, because we did not have the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u79	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, individual responsibility can be an element in the implementation of the plan to deal with these situations arising from the pandemic. However, this individual responsibility cannot cover state responsibility, and indeed, when behind the logic of individual responsibility over the past few years the overall overturns in the public health system have been made. It is precisely from collective state responsibility that public health has become individual responsibility through the privatisation and commercialisation of health even more and the operation of hospitals on the basis of private economic criteria. That is why we had a closure of hospital units both on the coexistence of New Democracy - PASOK and SYRIZA. That is precisely what the enormous difficulties the public health system has today are in responding to the pandemic. And from this point of view, the words of solidarity and thanks to the medical and nursing staff cannot cover precisely these responsibilities - and the political responsibilities - where they are still waiting for huge gaps to be covered, to face serious problems with nursing and medical staff in terms of disposables, masks, gloves and a number of other issues. In this respect, it cannot be individual responsibility for creating new hospital units. It's a state responsibility. It is not individual responsibility for the situation in the ICMs. It's a state responsibility. Already there are five hundred IF beds and about a hundred still not working today, because there is not exactly the necessary medical and nursing personnel for their operation, when in our country, based on the population, there should be three and a half thousand IF beds in public hospitals. When no measures are taken to enable primary care units to be provided with medical and nursing staff to be able to work on a 24-hour basis and to dismantle hospitals, it is not individual responsibility, it is state responsibility, as is the case when recruitment of permanent staff - both medical and nursing staff - is not implemented in hospitals. It is not individual responsibility for the lack of consumables, which had to be provided free of charge not only in hospitals, nurses and medical staff, but in total for workers and people in the public in order to deal with speculation in this way. And only as a scoff can it be seen that VAT has been reduced from 24% to 6% on these issues, while it should, in fact, be provided free of charge. It is not an individual responsibility, it is a state responsibility, the need for the private health sector. From this point of view, therefore, and if we extend the logic of individual responsibility, at the core of this logic is also to the reinsurance changes that today's bill brings about. The insurance system in the European Union, the whole capitalist economy, now considers it an individual responsibility. That is exactly why we have had overturns since the early 1990s. And it was no accident that this was directly linked to the overturns in the socialist system, the opportunity found the capital and the urban states to end once and for all with the weight - as they see it - of financing social security. And so, gradually, there were all these changes with the essence of being at the demolition of the social character of the insurance system and of a redistributive that was in the past, today being rewarded. And rewarding is not only the second pillar and the third pillar, but also the first pillar. And this was done with all the latest overturns in the insurance system and in the "Katrugalou" and "Vrutsi-Karougalou". So, in substance, we have a reward system, in essence, we have a system that operates in a capitalistic way. And why is this all happening? It is precisely so that employers do not pay for insurance in order to reduce the public spending on the social system to the lowest possible extent, because the social security system is a cost. That is the logic, which is being proclaimed today in the capitalist system. So the three-axle system which also exists in our country is facing the public universal and compulsory social security system. Therefore, the first axis is the national pension, a privileged benefit to cope with poverty. And the payroll of the first pillar is on the basis of the viability of the insurance funds. Thus, burdens are increasingly transferred to the backs of insured persons for the operation of the insurance system, simply provide an elementary level of health and welfare to the insured, while changes in active ageing are not accidental, i.e. work up to the deep ageing, up to 70 and 72 years. This insurance system is therefore linked to overturns in the labour market, with flexibility, part-time work, and the abolition of collective agreements. The second pillar is the professional funds, which are private insurance systems and which operate under a capitalisation system. So, what are these insurance funds, business? They're investors. So these insurance funds are converted into large institutional investors, they change the nature of savings and turn savings into financial instruments so that capital markets can raise cheap money. From this point of view, therefore, they have predetermined contributions, but they could never have secured returns. There can be no professional fund guaranteeing the returns, because, of course, these returns depend on the course of the financial markets, on the course of the capitalist economy as a whole. And, of course, there are thousands of examples at the global level that professional funds have been destroyed, so millions of workers have lost their insurance rights, with the example of ENRON being the most obsolete. But think about how much billions of the insurance funds have been lost in our country - not the professional and social insurance companies - that had invested in shares in the banking system. From this point of view, it is clear that stock exchanges cannot give pensions and do not give pensions. Stock Exchanges are just a tool to enable business groups, multinationals to raise cheap money. In this respect, therefore, the occupational funds are developed where public social security is weakened. So they can't coexist. It is a wish that what SYRIZA says can harmoniously coexist with social security funds and develop at the same time. These funds are living and developing under the social security demolition regime. That is precisely why, because the 'flavoured' in our country, which is still very low in the professional funds, has come out of BSE, the various institutional investors and are asking for incentives - and for taxation - to develop the professional funds. Why? Did the pain catch them? Oh, no. Because they want through this to accumulate the savings of workers, so that they can make use of it for their investment purposes. And the compromised employer and government majority of the GFCM is also running behind as a collar. So, where professional funds are being developed, social security is being demolished. And, of course, the third pillar is private insurance provided by private insurance companies. The JRC therefore opposes these overturns in the socio-security system. We believe that the State and the employer must pay for social security and gradually free workers from financing social security for a public, social, compulsory and universal insurance under the responsibility of the State and the abolition of business activity. And, of course, Mr President, let me refer to the recent announcements made by the government, which, of course, are insufficient, do not replace the lost income of workers because of the very pandemic of the coronary pandemic and, in essence, cannot be reversed by the anti-corruption measures which, today, by exploiting the pandemic of business groups, have in their hands. Besides, the Minister for Labour himself yesterday admitted that there were forty thousand redundancies in the first quarter of March, for which the government cannot or has not stated what the government will do, to say more elegantly. Oh, beard, behold, just from now on. And it is clear that any threats by the government to avoid redundancies in favour of the business groups from the government's financial package can only be described as a wish, precisely because companies have other weapons in their patronage. They have rotating jobs, the reduction in the wages of workers. And another thing that gives us a huge concern is the government's non-binding commitment that Easter's present will be paid in the private sector. This morning, the Minister of Finance said we'd see it on TV. Do not get any ideas like that, because of course we know very well that this is how the ferry opens. And we say this because you are trying to shape a collective and common concept that because there are exceptional situations we must all pay, as was the case with the capitalist crisis. Who did they pay for? The workers and the populace. And unmistakable came out of business groups. If such ideas come to you that the people will agree to abolish and quarantine their working rights in order to shield the profitability of business groups and implement all the anti-corruption measures you had in the drawer the previous period for rotating work, for teleworking and for a number of other issues that abolish collectiveity in the social sector, you are deeply mistaken. That is why - and I conclude with this - the pandemic must not be an opportunity and must be regarded as such for capital and civil and political staff, to promote capitalist restructuring and to demolition of which labour rights have been left behind. And from this point of view - we say it clearly - that the measure you said yesterday to ban meetings of up to 10 people will certainly not be used as a logic that opens the way to abolishing workers' collective rights. Workers have every right to raise obstacles to any metro which is arbitrary by employers and today's conditions or by the State with anti-population policy. In this respect, Mr President, - and I thank you very much - the Communist Party of Greece is voting against today's bill at first and in all its articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u81	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's events in Evros, no one can question this - that our problem at our northern border, on our land borders, will be permanent. It will be permanent because the practices that we have been living in the last 15 days are permanent. And the establishment in a camp a few days ago was about three thousand, today I do not know the exact number of immigrants and refugees there, the creation of a clipboard, but with tendencies of permanentity, camp, means that our problem there will be permanent. Let us think - and we are talking about measures and the economy - about what I have raised as a matter and a proposal several days ago, which are the special tax arrangements for people operating their businesses of whatever kind near the border and really need the help of the central state. Today we will not be content - and Mrs Gennamas was clear - to thank doctors, nurses, workers in the EAW and, more generally, workers in the national health system for their offer. But we will begin to highlight the problems that have arisen. This morning I heard on TV many employee representatives, doctors, nurses complaining about lack of masks, antiseptics, gloves. This is not for praise. This, Minister, must concern you as government. People have a good conversation with her, and she has a generous conversation. The people there are suffering. It's about the state making sure it supports them. And it's not support when the other one who gives the battle to the front line complains of a lack in this area. You should know that we support but there is a limit on support. And who sets the limit? Our mood of opposition or other? No, the real situation. Because the government has to deal with - like any government - the reality as an adversary, not opposition parties. I mean, for the tests, too. Today, again, on a front page of a newspaper that I read every day in the 'News', I read about workshops, those teams that will perform home-to-house tests. It's right. But like other measures, we have seen them for days in the press, which is mood and intent. And as reproduction becomes, the impression is that the intention is also an act! Hey, it's not! We all have a huge problem together. And where you have done something good, we are not at all fascinated by highlighting and applauding it. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, as the days pass and arouses us this very important problem, the more the logic of science prevails in practice and the others retreat: the conspiracies, who rushed from the first day to talking nonsense. The panics, they don't help. Panic's not an option. The 'ooch-brothers' who in the first few days - and perhaps even some - do not want to mind. And there are the ideals. I have a colleague in the Constitutional Law, Costas Dousina, with whom we have had a good day for decades. It cannot say that the solution to the problem is socialism. It simplifies them a lot and allows enclosure. It's not like that. There's no ideology to answer a disease. It would be very simple if there were to be a cure for the disease. Things are more complicated, more serious, and they also want seriousness in dealing with them. Instead of saying nonsense, it is better to observe the rules, as we observe them here in the House which should not be closed. Because this is where the parliamentary control, which must be directed - as Mr Kegeroglu rightly said - has been supported - by the government's control over the problem of pandemic and Evros. It must remain open on special working conditions as we observe them. And that must be an example, because we are observing the rules of work, keeping the House open for symbolic and substantive reasons. The other - whoever he is - cannot enter quarantine when he comes from abroad and circulate freely. When we have people coming, we get the message from the official state to tell them fourteen days quarantine and the other one to go shopping! We must all have the same rules and observe them. And the logic of science is the only reason he can walk. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the economy is concerned. Yesterday, three ministers announced measures. I said it before they announced it, and I say it now that they have been announced. They're in the right frame. It is the context of our own proposals, which we have made since the first few days. And we welcome them. But every day there will be new problems, and every day we will strive for their practical implementation. I have some of them - because I have been following the financial press, I thought they had been done in the world of ideas and good intentions. But it wasn't! The question of non-payment of contributions was considered to be a given reader of the financial report for days. Come on, de, where it wasn't. It had to be done with specific regulations, which I am ignorant even if they have been adopted. Therefore, the act will prove the intentions and not the numbers, the constituencies or the opposition with no meaning. Today I watched a TV dialogue between a journalist who defended the measures as perfect and a journalist who devoured them, the most disgusting of what is related to a pandemic that we have to deal with. Mr Brutsi, I agree with you when you say no favor, no measure will apply to those who made redundancies. However, before I came to trade unions - a real case of the day-to-day economy: Employers and workers in coordination have made pre-emptive redundancies for the other to join the OAED to receive the unemployment benefit - there are four cases of this kind that the entrepreneurs have made known to me - and when this crisis was to end and, of course, in the six-month period of OAED protection through the benefit of re-starting the employment relationship. These cases require special treatment where the agreement is in place and when both of them so request, both from employers and from employees. When you came out and said - because I read it yesterday - that the forty thousand redundancies, as shown by the 'ERGANI', are unprecedented, and then you say that in any of these businessmen's cases, I welcomed it because it is right. Have you been able to do, at the expense of the worker, what is of benefit to your business? Okay, you did, the state will protect the worker for a period of time, but don't ask for the help of the state. That is correct, but an exception to these cases. I don't know if it's technically possible, you need to look into it, and I think the OAED will provide you with the relevant tools. The economy also daily highlights a range of specific issues that no one can criticise a government because it did not anticipate them. But when he hears them, he has to set them up. Do you know how many sales have come to an end? How many transfers of ownership through parental benefits have they reached their end? In the event of a non-compliance, the competent authorities of the Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of the measures taken to comply with this Decision. This also needs a concrete approach. I close with the amendment relating to the heavy and unhealthy ones tabled by the Change Movement. Mr. Vroutsi, 2010 with Mr.3863 and in collaboration with Mr. Koutrumani, who was then Deputy Minister for Health, because I went to the Ministry of Health, we laid down in our law a specific arrangement that authorised the Minister for Labour and Social Security to regulate the issues of special categories that need to be dealt with in the heavy and unhealthy or even unhealthy order and to make the relevant list. This, of course, concerned the private sector, because the public is regulated by the Minister of Finance in these matters. Energy completed. Our law has been passed. The Minister, Mr Koutromanis, established the relevant ministerial with the lists, had inside nurses, who in the private sector of course were judged, assessed as joining the unhealthy, but the finance ministers and the previous government and the former and present have not seen the matter. It has to be solved. Is there a person who disputes that EKA nurses or drivers provide such unhealthy work? I don't think a reasonable man can support that. Our amendment is very correct, no pretext, no one outside the framework, no demagogic, nothing to deal with in a way 'e.g. opposition is, they say a word more'. It's a literal percent of our proposal. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. All your colleagues followed it yesterday and yesterday. We are few in the Chamber, but I think that time can be more for us, and that is why I thank you. Finally, I want to talk about the issues of the integrated directive. Look, there is Mr. George Mulkiotis, my compatriot half, placed with many details. It took me time to read, George Mulkiotis, your speech to the Standing Committee, and I attended you today. I would like to pick one of these, the occupational insurance issues when it is compulsory, a matter that concerns a hundred and twenty-five thousand, in this way, professionally insured. I have a waiting approach to make. When we criticised the draft law, the main insurance, which you brought a few weeks ago, we told you that you were standing in a way that we interpret it as hostile, while it is the second pillar, a significant pillar. Mr Karathanasopoulos, I cannot understand the subject of your criticism, although I follow very carefully and I know the ideological report which I respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I shall conclude. I would like to stress this - I wish we had time to have the debate - why are you questioning it? What are you questioning her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u85	As a demolition tool.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u86	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u88	It's a way out. It's a tool. I agree, so I and the party to which I have the honour of belonging. However, first of all, Minister first, he also joined the profession with EFKA and we told him that this betrays hostile behavior, will be demolished under the wave of bureaucratic problems, and now we do not understand - that was the criticism of George Mulkiotis - why? Is the approach theoretical?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I shall conclude. Why do the four funds - the big ones - because of the nineteen - have been large - with some twenty-five thousand people insured, forced insurance there, and not abolish the subsidiary, of course, through a legal person of private law, while the rest are small of the nineteen? Why do you not exercise your discretion to include these funds in the occupational insurance sector? Why are they staying outside? It's not a rhetorical question. It is a real question that when it comes to our general concern about how you see professional insurance creates reasonable opposition trends. We're waiting for the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u91	I'll answer you. There's an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u92	Minister, please take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u93	You said, when we made this criticism of you, that with a future draft law, which will only concern professional insurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u95	We also expect this, but also your explanations of today's day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u96	I would like to explain to the other colleagues, so that there are no misunderstandings: the leaders of both the Greek Solution and the Change Movement were in fact preceded by the Greek Parliamentary Representatives. We made a decision, which we had made in the past few days, not to reduce the time of the parliamentary representatives. Ms Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a tolerance for you to avoid any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that in this difficult trial, which we are going through as a society and as a country, we have proved all these days and in our public speech, but here too, from the positions in this House that we are trying in a positive way to contribute, to support an overall effort to tackle pandemic and, at the same time, to keep the society up with solidarity, cohesion and, coming out of this test, to continue with better prospects. I say this because, Minister, this attitude, which is self-evident and which is demonstrated on a daily basis, has proved to be in the conversation between the President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, but also the proposals we make positive to contribute to this effort. It also means highlighting those problems, the needs and the issues that we consider to be not adequately addressed, because that is precisely our role and that is what the Greek people are asking us to do at this time of the trial. In this sense, I would also agree with previous colleagues that it is of value that the House, even under these difficult and restrictive conditions, is in operation and that the process of democratic control remains alive. The first, then, and self-evident, is the absolute need to support the National Health System. That is something we have put to all tons since the first day. Some first steps have already been taken on the government side. We have said from the outset that these measures are positive, but they are very inadequate. In other words, the permanent recruitment of doctors cannot go any further at this time. You know that as a government, the Prime Minister has already received a letter from OENGE, from the Federation of Hospital Doctors, which very clearly says what issues are currently open and for which there needs to be a direct response from the government and specific decisions, not just good intentions. So the recruitment of doctors pending for both 2019 and 2020 - we are all talking with the medical and nursing staff for four thousand recruitments - must immediately proceed. This whole process will have duration and the National Health System must be shielded. The second thing that the OENGE puts in its letter - and it even says to dramatic tones that they are currently going to fight without appropriate weapons - is precisely that there is a shortage in a number of important consumable products, such as gloves, masks and others, which are necessary, so that they can do their job properly and have such protection. So there will be a need for the government to have much more concrete measures. Of course, he also raises questions about how to diagnose and test the coronary, where we know that there is a change of direction on the part of the government. There is still this test, and since they do not give this possibility from the public health system, it is done in private, without such control, and with exorbitant amounts at the moment. We are talking about sums of more than EUR 250 and up to EUR 300, which are now arrogant. I would therefore say, Minister - and I would like to be clear because I followed Mr Loverdo and Mrs Ghetto before - that, firstly, we consider the amendment you have tabled to support the national health system to be very positive and necessary to extend the status of heavy and unhealthy, of course, for nursing and other personnel. That's clear. At the same time, however, we believe - and so I am making the bridge between the health measures and the financial measures announced by the government yesterday - that it would be tragic negligence, unforgivable if, at this critical stage, the pandemic prevailed in a reasonable manner with blessings, recommendations, appeals and other non-intervention on the market which would self-regulation. Because here we have to be clear. There is no question of appeals to private diagnostic centers. There must be intervention. There must be a check and a value for the coronary diagnostic test at the private centres should be imposed. It's not a point of appeal. There can be no question of recommendations and wishes for the banks. In the case of natural persons, there must be the corresponding measures you have taken as a government in respect of undertakings and legal persons. Much more is the moment, Minister - and you have been delayed, we tell you every day from this Step - that there should finally be an extension of the protection of the first residence, at the time that the Greek people are at present numerously and economically and socially tested. There can be no wishes with regard to the available species. There can be no wish for the people to have access to these kinds of primary need, such as antiseptics, gloves and a number of other products. You must intervene there, too. We've told you from the first moment that you have to put credit for it. It is not enough to make communications visits to supermarkets. Of course, to get to your sector too, it is not enough what you said about the labour market. And here is the question of whether it's an option or just if you haven't chosen to go deeper, so that you can take the corresponding steps. You admit that at the moment we have forty thousand redundancies already within the first period of March and you bring measures which actually come in a very limited way to deal with the problem. There must be a ban on redundancies. For you, unfortunately, are the government that a few months ago you came and abolished the reason and justification for redundancies. There cannot be, from now on, and do not take account of the redundancies that have already been made, there must be a clear ban. There must be coverage of the redundancies that have been made because it is presumed that the redundancies that have been made over the last fortnight, 20-day, are directly related to the pandemic and its consequences, and you must intervene on the subject of the conversion of contracts of employment - this has been said by our rapporteur and by too many colleagues - as well as the netting of permits. There must be clear measures. You see across Europe that at the moment all countries are taking very brave and bold measures to deal with the crisis. Because here is the crisis we will have, you cannot currently take the first steps you announced yesterday, to come and deal with it. Now is the time to dare and now you need to take forward measures. I tell you, for example, that in Spain they announced 200 billion. In France 345 billion. In Italy 25 billion. Portugal, which is approximately proportional to our country and as a population and why it has also passed memoranda and crisis, is 9.2 billion. We're at 3.8 billion. Portugal, from 9.2 billion, has received 5.2 billion for fiscal stimulation by means of public intervention measures and 3 billion for state aids, half of which will go to tourism, hotels, catering, in sectors which are also necessary to support our own country. So by closing down ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for decisions. We as a Qualified Opposition have decided that we are setting up an Observatory for Health that will operate daily. The idea is to contribute to the effort. It is not a criticism of criticism as an end in itself. We want to highlight the problems, the shortcomings, the needs and to come to the attention of the government in asking for the appropriate measures to be taken. We believe that the sum of EUR 800 for a month and a half is not a sum that can meet the real needs. In fact, it's a subsidized wage allowance. There must be full pay coverage for workers. We think there should be provision for freelance professionals. We think you should be bold, unequivocal about banning redundancies and all the distortions currently taking place in the labour market. We must also take special measures at this stage - and we have also asked you and the Finance Minister a special question - as far as the most vulnerable social groups are concerned, which should be supported much more. Ladies and gentlemen, we really believe that our country has potential within this test. The 35 billion-dollar pillow left by the SYRIZA government is a stability at a time when international pressures are increasing. It opens up a debate, even with a lack of confidence in the Eurogroup. The Greek Government must ally with the other southern countries, with the other countries with corresponding problems. It must make use of the budget area even the one that was able to secure for 2020. These measures must be taken today. There is no reason here that we are making calls, making recommendations, taking some measures first and we'll see soon. Now is the time, because the recession in the economy that follows, if you don't get it now, the social and economic consequences will be heavy. Of course, above all - and I close, as I started - the first and main concern is the support of the National Health System. A question, Minister, on the amendment. According to the law that also existed from the previous government of SYRIZA, it was planned to have a contribution from the National Bank - and we would like some clarification on this, Mr Brutsi - for 40 million from the National Bank at the EIB by 2023. So we understand that here you come and you amend it. And if I understand correctly from the financial report you bring, you are talking about an additional annual financial burden and you say the amounts that will be up to 2024. Maybe I don't get it right. I would like you to explain it to us in your speech. So, what are you doing? Are you exempting the National Bank from having to pay these 40 million, as planned and increasing the cost for the other insured persons in the insurance system and ultimately for the taxpayer? If that's what it is, we don't agree and we'd like you to explain it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u98	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Buga, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech today with a phrase of Herodotus: Find out that the calamities of people prevail and not people of calamity, that is, that the circumstances govern people and not the circumstances. Today the whole world is trying to adapt to the circumstances caused by a powerful and invisible enemy. The means available to the modern world and all our forces are united in dealing with the pandemic, which is the great threat to our lives, the economy and our culture. Our primary concern, the protection of our own and of our fellow peoples, is to follow closely the suggestions and recommendations of science, which is called - and I stress this in particular - to play an internationally unifying role. The Greek Government has taken early and immediately implemented measures in a time of peace. However, in order to deliver these measures all of us need assistance, assistance to something simple but, at the same time, vitally important: our complete compliance. Self-discipline and individual responsibility go back to concepts that are crucial not to organisation and cohesion but also to the proper functioning of our societies, but to its very survival. Our highest priority, too, is to strengthen the health system so that it can face the unforeseen and enormous health crisis it has had. Exceptional funds are available for recruitment, supplies of IF materials and equipment. At the same time, in consultation and in cooperation with the European institutions and within the framework of the freedom afforded us by the financial area, which we have claimed and achieved, we are taking steps to alleviate the consequences of our economy, businesses, the self-employed, the selfemployed and the workers. We are struggling to maintain employment relationships and to withstand the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, we must point out the accession of our country to the European Bank's quantitative relaxation programme. This favourable development enables Greece to cope more quickly with the adverse effects caused by the pandemic, as well as to create good prospects for tackling the consequences of the economy in the post-crisis period. The 12 billion of the quantitative relaxation programme is added to the other support measures and operate cumulatively. In this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, we are usually discussing the principle of the separation of the powers of the State under Article 26 of the Constitution. In the circumstances, however, we are experiencing - and this has been afflicted by a previous speaker, if I am not mistaken by Mr Loverdos - we realise how important it is in itself that the three powers of the state continue to function. It is self-evident, of course, that the implementation should continue in order to be able to continue to provide services to the citizens, which they expect from the state and the state at these difficult times. It is also necessary to ensure that justice is not jeopardised without jeopardising the health of its officials, to intervene in exceptional cases, so as not to give the impression that one can violate the law and be dissatisfied without directly addressing sanctions, where necessary. It is also of the utmost importance that Parliament should continue to operate. The very foundation of parliamentary democracy remains unshakable in a period of crisis and this symbolic message emits the continuation of the work of the Greek Parliament. I would also like to mention the role of counter-population. The role of counterpopulation is particularly critical. Those forces of counter-population which in these critical times will resort to populism and demagogy will also be faced in disharmony with the people. The Greeks and not the media, as was said by the Chief of Political Party, support these hours the government. It was also attempted to show that the New Democracy did not support the public health system. It is true that the New Democracy has always advocated strengthening the public health system. In order to eliminate any sign of mistrust, I must remind you of what was electorally in our programme and the Prime Minister himself said. A direct objective, then said Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is to upgrade the operation of hospitals, with meritly selected administrations, targeted staff recruitment and cover the tragic shortages of the logistics infrastructure. I would also like to say something about the inadequacy of the measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is evolving. The measures taken are the first to address them. When necessary and where necessary, we shall intervene to strengthen measures to support the economy. At the same time, however, apart from economic support measures, measures are being taken to prevent illegal immigration into the country. The Evros border is well maintained and has now become aware to all Europeans that the borders of Greece are guarded as the borders of the European Union. It also responds to every challenge and neutralizes every threat. Allow me now to say a few words about the draft law under discussion, which is self-sufficient in time, as has been agreed. The first pillar of social security, i.e. the public redistributive system, is, as is well known, subject to suffocating pressures. The directive, which is incorporated into our national law in the draft law under discussion, seeks to harmonise the framework for the operation of the Institutions of Professional Pensions across Europe and to make them more attractive, within strong budgetary supervision in the European Union and at the expense of negligible demographic data, i.e. the ratio between workers and pensioners. The funds, as the application of the cooperative idea and the modern social economy, have optional participation in them, while their administration and management have the shareholders, the insured and the employers. We consider it crucial that the institution of occupational insurance should be reorganised and reconstituted without prejudice to the public pension system of the first pillar of insurance. The State must provide compulsory social security with adequate pension benefits. The funds have a valuable role to play in pension systems of social security, in particular by reducing primary insurance in recent years, but under strict conditions of supervision of their investments and operation by the State, as provided for by the directive which is currently incorporated into the Greek legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, with the hope that Parliament will soon return to normal work and that we can all be healthy again in our political and parliamentary duties, I would urge you to vote in favour of the draft law requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. The Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, my position will be in two parts. The first will be with regard to this directive and the second I will try to answer the questions that have been asked for this directive, but also with regard to the questions of the interventions and the package taken by the Government. A draft law on the transposition into Greek legislation of Directive 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions with the abbreviation IORP is currently being introduced. That is how I shall mention from now on in my speech. The draft law incorporates Directive 2341 of 2016, which only concerns the operation of the second pillar of pension insurance and regulates the terms and conditions of the operation of the occupational insurance funds. With the recent social security reform that we have recently voted on here in the House, and it is already a law of the state, Law No.4670/2020, closed a historical cycle of constant and parallel reforms in the country's public insurance system. With Law 4670/2020 we set up a new digital insurance system and set up an electronic national insurance institution, e-ECA, where the distribution between collective and individual responsibility, freedom, flexibility, reciprocity, solidarity and social justice are its essential components. So, by closing this historical cycle of public social security, new paths and new prospects for occupational security are now being opened and we can now talk and plan the next steps of the second pillar. Occupational insurance is an institution which has been promoted and strengthened by the European Union for several decades. It is nothing new, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and indeed through the granting of tax incentives and tax reliefs and the adoption of relevant directives, such as Directive 2003/41/EC of the European Union and the European Union's newest 2016/2341, which incorporates into our national law by means of a draft law, such as what we are discussing today. Occupational insurance is based on and operates under the capitalised financial system. The private capitalisation systems of the second pillar already operate in several Member States, including the United Kingdom, the lower countries, Denmark and Ireland. In addition, legislative changes in other countries, such as Italy, Spain and France, provide the opportunity for further developments in this area. Two fundamental reasons urge Member States to strengthen and promote occupational insurance systems. Firstly, occupational insurance helps to ensure an adequate pension system and maintain a decent standard of living, and this is also the core of the institution of occupational insurance, of the benefit and of the value it gives society. Secondly, through these supplementary insurance systems and in the context of the free movement of capital, there is also an additional objective: the development and promotion of the national and Community capital market, given that no other type of body invests for such a long term horizon over the last 40 years. This shows the opportunity both at national level and for the European Union to take advantage of these funds, while these long-term investments contribute to the economic development of each country, as well as to our own. What is the evolution of the institution in Greece? The institutions of occupational insurance of the second pillar were introduced into our country by Article 7 and 8 of Law 3029/2002. The first professional funds - on a voluntary basis always - started operating since 2003. They are a legal person under private law and operate mainly in the field of private non-profit insurance by the capitalisation system. To date, twenty-three Professional Insurance Funds have been set up and operate, nineteen of which are optional and four compulsory, while a special mobility for setting up new occupational insurance funds has been observed in recent years. The development of occupational insurance in our country is very limited. It may sound great, the twenty-three funds, much more so today with the recent Law 4670, we have a new and only national compulsory insurance body, the national electronic insurance body e - ECA and twenty-three professional insurance bodies, but the insured in occupational funds only number thirty-four thousand five hundred fifty-five persons, compared with four million seven hundred ten thousand members of the general scheme, that is to say only 0.7% of the total active insured. So you understand how small the participation of the professional funds in the whole of the country's insured persons is. The portfolio to be invested for the nineteen occupational insurance funds - voluntary insurance - is only a hundred and a half hundred seventy-two thousand, that is about EUR 122 million and this figure at 31-12-2019, while their portfolio to be invested for the four compulsory pension funds amounts to about EUR 1.5 billion. The four occupational pension funds have a large portfolio, not only because of the largest number of insured persons, but mainly - and this is the reality - because they have also been subsidized by public property, when they have been converted with Law 4052/2012 - as the Minister of State at that time - by legal entities governed by public law into private legal entities. Here is a question that must be answered and raised mainly from the SYRIZA side. I call it a contradiction. But in any case, in order to clarify things, the question raised is this: is the public system at risk from occupational insurance at risk, that is, public social security from occupational insurance at risk? It's a crucial question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u102	The JRC put it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u103	And the JRC, Mr. Loverdo, and SYRIZA about the same line was. The importance and importance of the public system based on the distribution system and on the principles of redistribution and social solidarity and intergenerational solidarity referred to in Article 20 of Law No4670/2020 of the last insurance reform that we completed the cycle of major changes in our country is not questioned and is not negotiated. The public social character of our country is here, a key pillar of our country's social security. It is and will continue to be the main lever of the protection of workers at the end of their active employment, at the end of the lever of an entire life. Occupational insurance is voluntary. I repeat, it's optional. It is governed by private law rules and, of course, above all its financial system with which it operates, which is capitalising, it complements public social security. Under the provisions of Directive 2016/2341, which is incorporated into this draft law in our national law, Directive 2003/41/EC of the European Parliament, which was the basic European legislative instrument regulating the activities and supervision of the institutions of occupational pension benefits, as we have said. Directive 2016/2341 aims at improving the European Union rules on occupational pension schemes and better protection of the rights of members and beneficiaries. This is done by laying down detailed rules on the governance of IORPs, Institutions of Professional Pension Protection, as we call them, the powers to exercise supervision over IORPs, the information to be provided by IORPs, supervisory authorities, as well as candidates and beneficiaries, investments and depositaries of IORPs. The Directive also abolishes the obstacles and cross-border activities of IORPs and cross-border transfers, so that IORPs and sponsored enterprises can make full use of the benefits of the single market. The new regulations introduced complement the provisions of our national legislation on the cross-border activity of IORPs and introduce new regulations on the transfer of IORPs - occupational insurance funds from Greece to another country - member of the European Union and vice versa. However, already with the Rules of Conduct and Good Practice of the Occupational Insurance Funds, a particularly important regulatory text for the smooth and uninterrupted operation of the Occupational Insurance Fund - I would remind you that it was Law 1893/2015, it was my ministerial decision at the time when it was amended - we are intervening and facilitating this whole process. Moreover, with the supervisory rules that we introduce, which, during my previous term of office, as Minister, has already been drawn up and adopted, most of the provisions of the directive relating to the conditions governing IORP activities have already been transposed into national law. Thus, according to the draft law, which incorporates the directive, it is supplemented - I repeat - the existing legislative framework and the most important changes - additions concern: firstly, the remuneration policy applied by occupational insurance funds, detailed rules are laid down. Secondly, the implementation by the occupational insurance funds of the own risk assessment. Thirdly, the appointment of a depositary and its duties. Fourthly, investment management. Fifthly, the provision of additional information to members and beneficiaries. In particular, the provisions of this Regulation do not concern institutions - entities covered by the national compulsory social security scheme, i.e. the funds currently incorporated into the e-ECA and the compulsory occupational insurance fund. That's the answer, Mr. Loverdos. But then I'll give a more detailed answer. IORPs are established in Greece in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 and Article 8 of Law 3029/2002, the Reppa Law, under the name of the Professional Insurance Fund. For this reason, the provisions of this IORPs established, approved and registered in the Greek territory in accordance with Article 7 of Law 3029/2002 refer to IORPs - IORPs, i.e. the Professional Insurance Funds. In accordance with the provisions of the draft law, the Institute of Professional Pensions is defined as an institution which operates independently of its legal form on a capitalised basis. Such a fund may be set up separately from any undertaking or professional association, with the aim of providing additional pension benefits in the context of an occupational activity, on the basis of an agreement or collective agreement concluded either individually or collectively between an employer and an employee or an employee or through their respective representatives. That's the most important thing. The bill explicitly states that IORPs - EIFs are established as a separate legal person by the company that finances them through the bookings, so that in the event of the company going bankrupt the IORPs' assets and the interests of members and beneficiaries are safeguarded. This draft law and the adoption of the regulatory acts provided for in this Legislation establishs and strengthens the institution of occupational insurance, ensures the functioning of the professional funds and clarifys and strengthens the supervisory role of the competent authorities, which is the Ministry, the National Analogue Authority and the Securities and Market Commission. With the incorporation of this directive, ladies and gentlemen, we are fulfilling a European obligation in our country, signalling the Government's intention to further develop the second pillar of occupational insurance. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we will legislate, incorporating something self-evident into our country's law, a European directive. And here I come to place myself on some of the questions that have arisen, I always want to believe in goodwill, but unfortunately they also give rise to a representative. I'm addressing SYRIZA. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you do not vote on a European directive? It is unheard of, it has no precedent for the procedures, the customs that we follow here, as unwritten rules and laws. A European directive is adopted. We are obliged to do so, in fact, this European directive, which has been in force since 2016. The questions asked to me, as Minister, just before the SYRIZA rapporteur, may have put them to the SYRIZA MEPs who voted for it. Consider: The SYRIZA MEPs have voted for the directive and the SYRIZA spokesman, as rapporteur and raises questions, rather than asking them in 2016. That is, in 2016 why SYRIZA voted for it in the European Parliament. This is a matter of your own, but do not create confusion and change the picture. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will be voting on a European directive. All the parties which we believe in Europe, its functioning and its rules, whether we are opposition - minor, major - or government, must vote on it. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you need to know that. How do you accept today the SYRIZA party not to vote for the directive? You see the behavior of the Change Movement? Very responsible. He's voting for a directive. He could say his own, too. But he's voting for it with his objections. SYRIZA turns through the engagement, when your MEPs voted for it as a directive. In any case, we are all judged. You will also be judged on this unreliable attitude of yours. Two answers to the issue raised by the rapporteur for the Change Movement. Welcome your questions. I would therefore like to tell you that the withdrawal of Article 4 of the directive is because the application of this article is optional. It is optional and not compulsory for it to be implemented. So that is why Article 4 has been withdrawn. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we have withdrawn the occupational funds, which are compulsory. Mr. Loverdo, with regard to Article 2, when we withdrawn the four occupational pension funds, it was not an arbitrary move of ours. We were imposed by the Council of State by Resolution 960/2017. So the answers I give to the side of the well - meaning and correct questions put by the Change Movement are these. Two issues relating to the government's measures, which we took yesterday. You saw me, too, as Minister, announcing a department with the co-legislative ministers of finance and development. I will say about the issues relating to work, the workers and then, Mr President, I will conclude my position on the crucial issue of the LEPETE amendment, where I must give some answers, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has put it, and I would like these to be recorded in the Minutes and after my position on the LEPETE, I would ask the representatives of the parties very much to get from the Minutes, which I shall say, because it is a useful tool because we are voting on this topology. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that our country is experiencing is unprecedented. It does not touch on an economic upheaval or on the wrong economic model or on the wrong political directions and choices, it is something that goes beyond the geographical boundaries of our country, social and economic, it is something that is global, unprecedented, we are all experiencing and living. The consequences are also social and economic, but the effects are also on health. We see what happens next in Italy and all Greeks really feel creepy seeing from the channels what happens as the Italian health system collapsed. We all experience the same anxiety and terror, I would say, what is happening globally. In this context, therefore, the Greek Government, without claiming the perfect, acted as a precautionary measure better than any other European country. And this morning I congratulated the representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Odyssey Constantinople, who admitted it publicly. We do not claim the perfect, ladies and gentlemen. This crisis doesn't have a model of operation to deal with, you make quick decisions, you prey on some things, since you observe them and you try to weigh the situation each time and make decisions. You saw that the preventive attitude of the fast and brave and difficult decisions of the Prime Minister himself and our government in the field of health than closing schools, stopping some stores shows that on the part of the balance with the other countries we have a better performance, compared always I am. At the same time, however, social consequences are enormous. It's unprecedented what happened. We stopped running stores by administrative decision. You understand that this has a direct impact on the economy. Businessman with two employees with three employees, five, ten, per cent, a thousand is in a dead end. That is why the measures we took yesterday were the second package, which concerned these issues. What I do confirm is that I see in the "ERGANI" - the "ERGANI" that was created in 2013 - a disappointing figure, minus 41 000 in the balance of "ERGANI" for the month of March, while last year it was positive. All years were positive even during the memorial period March had a positive balance. Yesterday's report shows that there is a panic that employers are making redundancies, which I consider to be unfair, unjust. There should be no panic, because this crisis is a temporary one and it is not a business one. It is an administrative measure to suspend their operation. And I appeal to the business world, I call on the House to stop these actions, which are supposed to have legal power to be able to make redundancies, but they are neither morally right nor economically right, because from the crisis or we are all going out together together or we will all be defeated. Our country is financially kneeling, as is the world economy, all the countries. We have an obligation in this crisis to contribute all of us, state, businesses, workers, we all contribute and we all go together from this crisis, we win, we go together, so we must not see themselves, we must not see them. In the case of businesses, which have been closed by administrative order, we have suspended their operation, does not mean that they are closed forever. These businesses, ladies and gentlemen, will be reopened and reopened as soon as the crisis passes. Looks like signs, we hear things from scientists. Yeah, well, that's gonna happen sometime. We don't put a padlock on business. The next day, as the cycle of crisis closes, we all have to be ready, united to open the windstorm of our economy again, rise again, and we must stand on our feet as a society and as a economy and above all be healthy. So the measure we have taken, ladies and gentlemen, is a measure of the Ministry of Labour, a ban on redundancies only in companies - and there are too many of them that have been suspended by administrative order - is unprecedented and unprecedented. It is a measure that is incompatible with the functioning of a normal economy, but we are not in normal circumstances. We do not believe when, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, banning redundancies is a means of restoring an economy or improving its competitiveness. It's disastrous to ban redundancies. But we do, because we are in special circumstances, there must be no panic in the business world, we must all act wisely and it is solidarity. Workers who are in this business environment do not receive wages because the labour law says that the operation of the company is not being cut by administrative order. So there is no wage costs, first. Secondly, their insurance contributions, we announced yesterday for the whole of the working population, we will fully cover them at the level of their wages. Therefore, there is not even a burden of insurance contributions. So, I wonder why a businessman who we temporarily suspended his business from making redundancies? That is why we have had to take this difficult one, the emergency measure which will be suspended the next day of the crisis. The free economy cannot function, an economy that must operate in an environment of development, such as all other countries, in an environment that prevents redundancies. That is not normal, but we are doing it to tackle the crisis at this time of crisis. For the other undertakings which are in operation, there are a number of measures which are beneficial, they are good, which are measures that suspend payment of tax and insurance liabilities in one secondary year, three months and four months after tax and insurance obligations. These are measures which will come with financial instruments to be announced by the Ministry of Development. There will be a third package of measures in line with developments. They are measures concerning the rents of businesses, workers. In other words, the government has run faster than all European countries in the face of the crisis. So, ladies and gentlemen, without claiming the perfect, what is happening is unprecedented, but we say that as a country, we are all trying together as a government. And I would like to thank all the parties in this House for the responsible attitude they have taken towards this issue beyond the positions and proposals that each side makes. It is self-evident that each political group should give its own list of priorities, fully respected, and that is how democracy works, and sometimes some of them and we are in line, because no one can know all about it at a speed that you are moving. That is why it is very important and what Mr Loverdos and the House have said, and the views are heard, we are still fermented, we are hearing, we are evaluating and moving forward. It is therefore very important that we keep this consensus, because at this critical moment, unanimity and national unity are above all. Now I want to close with the subject of LEITE. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of LEADER is a many-year-old problem. LEPETE is a very serious issue, particularly serious. I would now like you to hear a few things that the House is not aware of, and on the basis of which I now reply directly to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman who asked me directly what we are doing today with an amendment to SYRIZA. Answer me. With our amendment to the House today, we save with the National Bank of Greece, we save the pensioners of the National Bank of Greece, who will take LEPETE, we save the workers of the National Bank of Greece, we save the depositors of the National Bank of Greece, and we save the national budget balance. And I'm explaining. LEPETE, the closed subsidiary fund of the pensioners of the National Bank is a problem for many years. The fund has had major economic deficits for over a decade. Why? Because since 2005, new entrants from the National Bank of Greece have been insured with the public subsidiary insurance body and not LEITE. LEPETE concluded to support about eighteen thousand pensioners, while the active ones are only six thousand. The National Bank was forced to grant credit facilities to cover the deficit until 2017, which had reached over EUR 100 million per year. And here I come to pay tribute to the previous government, to the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Labour. I won't refer to names. There are signatures on the texts. The previous government, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on the eve of elections, has put a bomb on the foundations of our national economy, with this provision that it has brought, under the provisions of the LEIDE. It was put to the vote to manipulate the votes of these eighteen thousand pensioners and the workers who remain within this periphery of LEIDE to take their vote with a wrong legislative provision, which we now find in front of us. In the last hours of the parliament before the elections, the previous government legislated Petropoulos - SYRIZA, recognising the state's obligation to pay supplementary pensions. SYRIZA - Petroulou Law had many problems. It was done on the knee without the necessary proportionate study. Indeed, the proportional study referred to taking place after 2024 on such a serious issue. In other words, it signed a law on pension payments without having been studied proportionately and sent after 2024. You understand the danger to which he put the whole of the insurance and the economy, as you will hear below. And here's the crucial point. Either deliberately or ignorantly - I want you to hear that - the SYRIZA Government ignored the rules of EUROSTAT. Let me repeat it. The government of SYRIZA either from ignorance or from feasibility, escaping the elections, ignored EUROSTAT's rules, leading to a heavy burden on the state budget for 2019, in which the entire proportionality deficit of the fund should be included, jeopardising the objective of the surplus and the objective set by the country's commitments. It gave a temporary solution until 2024, after which a proportionate study was foreseen with uncertain results. He endangered the solvency of the National Bank of Greece, that is, the workers, the pensioners of the current National Bank of Greece and the depositors of the National Bank of Greece, it somehow made the amount of its contribution to the solution uncertain. In short, EUROSTAT, unfortunately - I have the document that I will be tabling in the Minutes and I would ask everyone to take it - has been saying in a directive since 2013 that any deficit created on a long-term insurance basis should come as a uniform size, to the level of the reference time that this expenditure is being spent. This was, therefore, essentially tolerant of the National Bank of Greece. And if the state took the burden of this deficit, it shredded the country itself into the air. This is what SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, has done on the eve of the elections. Today's amendment gives a definitive solution, because the insured and pensioners of LEPETE and ELPETE are finally and clearly integrated into the public body, ensuring that the pensions of the current and future pensioners are paid smoothly and uninterruptedly. It is based on a proportionate study, which in the Petersburg Act was planned for 2024. This was already drawn up by the National Accounting Authority and confirms the solvency of the public body. The uniform rules governing all EIF members shall apply, in accordance with the Constitutional principle of equality, Article 22(5) of the Constitution, i.e. no discrimination between old and new pensioners of the LEADER. Finally, the National Bank of Greece will continue to support the solution by a special additional contribution of 12% beyond the normal employers' contributions to the public body. I'm closing up with this. Ensuring the pensions of LEPETE and ELPETE - NATIONAK is done without jeopardising either the state budget or the solvency of the National Bank of Greece anymore. In this difficult social problem, the government with responsibility and without populism takes a responsible stand and gives a solution, a balanced, fair and, above all, permanent study of the problem of LEITE. The amendment we are bringing ensures the pensioners of the National Bank, the workers of the National Bank, the solvency of the National Bank and the fiscal stability of our country. That is why I call on everyone to vote for the amendment that LEIDE. It is a very important amendment with very heavy responsibility for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u104	I would like to ask you about the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u105	One question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u106	All right, ladies and gentlemen, just not to proceed to a further debate and debate. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u107	I wanted the floor because I raised the subject of the amendment and the Minister replied to me. He made a personal report...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u108	It wasn't personal in the sense... it was rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u109	Alas, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u110	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Three points I want to raise. Firstly, we know very well, Minister, the difference between directive and regulation. You don't have to teach us lessons and suggestions. The regulation is what you said, but not the directive. The directive, like the one we are voting on today, sets a minimum which is adapted to the needs and crises of each country. So don't make a comment on our position at this time. This is our position and, in fact, we had prepared a preliminary draft to the SYRIZA government in order to adopt this directive with a little different context. That is the first comment. The second comment. You have referred to forty thousand redundancies and expressed your regret, one regret and one sadness we all have. But did you ask yourself, by appealing, why are these redundancies going from businesses that you are now, in a way, forced to close down, because of the pandemic, through the measures you have taken? Because, Minister, you must bear in mind - and this is something that we have put forward - that it is about the problem of all the businesses and those that continue and operate, which have a very high cost, such as tourism, such as focusing, such as a number of other businesses, where horizontal measures are needed. That is why we stressed that there is a lack of measure. We shall now proceed to the amendment. What we understand from your position is that you are effectively exempting from the burden of the National Bank and in fact the burden actually comes to EVKA, to the insured, so to the Greek taxpayer at the end. And if you say that the impact on the National Bank was so tragic, and you have told us that there was no such study, I would also ask the question, Mr President, and I say this to the Minister. Why are you bringing it in an amendment at the last minute? Why didn't you bring a study of yours? You had a conversation with the committee. It could be discussed in committee, since it is such a serious issue, which shocks the stability of the National Bank. Minister, what you're saying doesn't convince us. We believe that the result at the moment is that EFKA should be imposed and the National Bank should be relieved if you do not prove us with evidence that exactly what you're saying is true. There is an issue, Mr President, and I am closing with that. Mr Stakoras raised the question today of whether there would be a possibility, which we consider to be unacceptable as a statement, when there is no such budgetary problem and an obstacle to giving Easter gifts. We believe it is a little challenging to say that at the moment the National Bank is in danger because it has been obliged to contribute additional insurance resources to the ECA for three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u113	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u114	The question relates to the amendment. This bill exposes professional funds. LEBE could be such a professional fund. This is its nature and its evolution demonstrates the course of the professional funds, not only of LEITE and others. The victims of these choices are the workers, the insured persons and the pensioners of this fund. What is the point of the question, Minister? With this amendment, is the regime getting worse, that is, the supplementary pensions that the bank's insured pensioners would receive, in relation to what was going on so far? That is the question and it is very clear if this regime, beyond the adjustment period, that you say, of the personal difference until 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u117	Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have referred to the arguments at the last moment, of course, because today the amendment was tabled, in which you say that a specific situation is being saved. But beyond what you said, there is nothing to prove. The fact is that there is nothing to prove, as you have said. One thing is that pensions are falling. You said, when we passed the draft law on e-ECA, that there would be no question of reducing pensions from now on. We see, then, that pensions are falling. That proves it. On the other hand, Minister, you have referred to your amendment and you have ignored it completely and you have not said a word about the amendment tabled by the Change Movement, a timely amendment which has also found allies from major opposition and which concerns integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions - whom? - those who today are the front guards on this terrible pandemic phenomenon. It is a major issue. What are we asking? We call for integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions of the particular people whose work is about the frontline of the coronary fight. What do you say? We are talking about those employed in nursing establishments, clinical, microbiological, biochemical laboratories, health establishments, health care centres of the National Health System, welfare units of the National Social Care System, including "Help at Home" and radiological and radiological laboratory laboratories of the National Health System, as well as the crews of the National Health Aid Center and those employed in public structures in the case of injured, midwives, visitors, laboratory radiologists, therapists of psychiatric, physiotherapists, ITH, and workers in the technical services of structures. We don't say anything else. We call the inclusion and, of course, the grant of the corresponding allowance. You ignored that, you didn't say anything. Why at this stage, when we do so much, why should this amendment not be accepted for these specific categories? I see two measures and two weights in relation to the amendments. You are discussing and want, of course, your amendment to be voted on, but we are obliged, given that you are bringing down pensions and that you are also missing and do not even want to vote on the amendment and accept the amendment to the Change Movement, to take the corresponding position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u119	The debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is adjourned: "Integration into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions.(')'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-two articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the hotel article, the amendment, as well as the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u120	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u121	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u122	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions (I.E.S.) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority on the principle, Articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting in respect of the vote on the entire bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u124	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-19-S1-commons.u125	With the consent of the House at 13.56 minutes, the sitting is closed on Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 9:30, on the subject of Parliament's work, and Parliament's scrutiny: a debate on topical and urgent questions.
