ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 23-1-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICAL Sessions of Thursday 23 January 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts of Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology Bodies and Other Provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: 'Election of MPs'. Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You will allow me to begin, because we must not forget these great events, and say that, until tomorrow, if I’m not mistaken, in 2015, we had the elections "Sunday we vote, Monday we are all leaving". I think everything was condensed in a statement by the Prime Minister, in which he said on 10 May 2016: "I didn't lie, I had delusional" to say again on 25 January 2017: "I lied, but we didn't steal it already." I am simply presenting to the Minutes, because it is important not to forget, the statements: 'I will abolish the memorandum by means of a law and an article', 'We will defend the public character of regional airports', 'ENPIA is an unreasonable tax, is not corrected, but is abolished'. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] And now, since we remembered the 25th of January to see the three proposals that are in place, because it is very important that we simply respond. It is a proposal that says simple proportional and the other majority, almost one/3. In the simple analogues, we know them. I'm going to say it with some assumptions, which I don't believe, but I think it's worth it, because we have to answer. But let's go to the government's proposal. You think almost one-third is something that comes out of the ten years of the crisis? I would remind you, in order not to forget that the last government-government, which was in 2012, reached 48.19% and when DMAR left, was 42%. So through this crisis composition - consensus can be achieved again with the well-known self-responsibility or not? We don't think so. And to leave the simple analogue last, I say that our proposal has come out of the experiences of ten years of a party that first put the country after the party. From 44% to 4%. So our choice is a choice for the country and when you say that a party coalition can't get the bonus for the last minute, I understand you're saying, but will SYRIZA find it with PASOK - believe it already, but anyway - or New Democracy and build an alliance at the last minute? But here there's a party that's one of the previous elections. How can he not get a bonus? I understand that there's not going to be any challenging moves in the last one and a half years, but a party that's come down from the previous elections can't get the bonus? How is that possible, Minister? I can't understand it. I really can't understand it. We are now going to this particular issue, in the big game that is played and I am going to make assumptions, which I do not believe - I say again - on the subject of mere analogy aimed at a progressive world, telling it things like avoiding artificial majorities, composition and co-operation with simple analogues, which are self-evident. It really goes without saying all these things. There's a composition, we'll say, with the simple analogue. We know what happened in the municipal elections process. What is happening in the municipalities is known to you, but we must now go to the specifics. I want to tell you something. In the 2012 elections, the coalition then New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR reached 48.19%. The SYRIZA-ANEL coalition in both elections was 41.39%. Then Mr Tsipras, for the 48.19% that surpasses the proportion of mere analogy he wants to make a majority, said it was a democratic diversion. For 48%! I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not believe it, and I say it again, so as not to misunderstand ourselves, that SYRIZA is a progressive party. I'm fine. And we're going to the election. The convenience is that SYRIZA or the first party in PASOK is the first party and we are making a progressive government with Koundoura, Papachristopoulos, Kokalis and all right, we have a progressive government. This is important. But, comrades, one in a million tell us that people don't believe us and take out not the progressive party of Kokkalis, Papachristopoulos and Koundoura, but the right ones. Question: In the results - and I give you the 2015 list - the New Democracy has a hundred thirty seats, SYRIZA hundred three and PASOK twenty-seven. The election's over and Monday's coming. You are talking about a composition that you supported against us, because you said that we agreed with New Democracy. On Monday, as a party, if you want simply proportional, I ask you directly: Will you go to New Democracy? Get out and say it if you're second. If we're first to solve it. But if it happens to be one in a million, what you were saying and it happened? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In my view, SYRIZA with its simple analogue, while he does not want it, is actually playing change in a game not SYRIZA - New Democracy, but SYRIZA - PASOK, mocking, mocking the progressive world, while he does not answer the question: 'If you are two, will you take the country back to the elections or collide with the New Democracy'? Nobody's answering this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u3	So we're having a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u4	There is no answer to that in the 'one in the million' you were saying. I told you, I made the assumption, but in "one in a million" you don't answer, because you want to play the duplicate not with the New Democracy. Here, Minister, there is the issue of early elections. If you make early elections, there are two major issues: firstly, it is the question of the economy. Thirty days will last, because you say you're going to double elections. I don't know if we have this precious time. The second question is that early elections mean, of course, that you are also winning and saving Mr. Tsipras, because you understand that if you go to elections now, a defeat of SYRIZA will be self-evident. One defeat after four years will be the end. You choose. I conclude by saying that our proposal is a proposal from a party that came out through fire and iron, a proposal that the country has in mind to move forward with compositions and consents, because the PASOK first has the country and then the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Pappas has the floor for seven minutes now. I would ask you to keep the time, because there are many of the following Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u6	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me take you back about four years, when Mr Tsipras was still a Prime Minister and returned from his trip to China. Journalists then asked him about the electoral law that would be passed a few days later. Mr Tsipras was content with using an expression of Mao: 'Great turbulence, wonderful situation'. How could Mao Tse Tung know that his phrase would be used by Alexis Tsipras for the simple analogue. Maybe if he knew not to call her back then. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, four years later I think you have realised that you have failed, as you have failed in every ideological effort you have made, in every attempt to create chaos in this place. The big turbulence has never come - unfortunately for you - and the situation is not wonderful - fortunately for us. I mean, of course, "wonderful" I mean, as you have set it and define it. The country finally has a responsible Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and a serious government, a government that does just what it promised the Greek citizens who trusted and voted for it. I know, it looks like you're never heard of being a guy and keeping his promises. But it's about time you learned that this is politics, not slogans, lies and misled. As we have promised, ladies and gentlemen, we are abolishing the simple analogue. I'll explain why we dismantle it after I've cleared something up. The New Democracy has never existed and there will never be an opportune party. He never used the electoral law to trap the next government, what you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, tried to do in 2016 and failed, what Andreas Papandreou did to trap the government of the New Democracy of Constantine Mitsotakis and had succeeded. The New Democracy reminds you that it had reached the '89-90 elections in 46%, but could not take its self-reliance. And in this bad copying you made from your political model. You failed, then, because you have been challenging. I heard Mr Tsipras using a lot of arrogant concepts and terms yesterday. He accused New Democracy of political deception, the man who - I remind you - would be abolished by a law and an article in the memorandum, the man who said so much about HNPH - let us not forget them -, the man who said that disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the elections was the right thing to do. But he did not say the same in 2014 when he was shooting the Samara government. He referred to popular sovereignty and popular verdict the man who made "no" "yes" in the referendum that dragged us. Even the body of change and renewal baptize SYRIZA. With who? With the strains of the old, hard, folk PASOK? Is that the renewal? You must probably open a dictionary to refresh your Greeks. It even reached the point of threatening the New Democracy, us, that in the next elections SYRIZA can find consensus and form a government. Government from whom, from the second party? Ladies and gentlemen, do not be deceived. The New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be the first whenever elections are held and, most importantly, I would tell you not to underestimate the Greek people and his will, the dominant will he sent you to the opposition. Because we are not the target people, we are abolishing the simple analogue. In fact, we are abolishing it in a political time that no one can tell us anything and cannot be linked to any scenario of early elections, such as those you reproduce, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, within you to solve your inner-party. Another mistake, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, will be corrected by us, as we have done with so many mistakes, as we will do before us, until we can see that everything is done properly so that the country can finally come to normality again. The reason for the simple analogue is simple: it does not ensure the country's governance on the pretext of proportionality. The simple analogue opens the fertile door of instability and instability, instability and instability to the worst possible juncture for our country, while the Greek economy is back on its feet and is an example for typing and not typing, the period when positive psychology in the markets and in the Greek society has replaced uncertainty and introversion, while Greece is at the heart of developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and is the stability factor in the region and the Greek government is characterised as a reliable interlocutor. And here I have to be clear to all sides. A stable and reliable interlocutor must be the individual Greek Prime Minister, strong internally, stable abroad. All of this, with the simple analogue, as you can see, would cease to exist. The vicious circle of intergovernmentalism would enlist the government in our homeland and send dangerous messages abroad, that political power is either servants or vulnerable, that the economy is unstable, that society lives in uncertainty. And all this because? To open the way to your mind, to SYRIZA's mind, to the call-- give for power? We take this road to you, because it tramples our country's interests and that interest comes first and foremost and above all for us. I was born and have had the honour of electing a Member of Parliament in the acronyms of Dodecanese, where the heart of Hellenism strikes hard and the pulses sound to Turkey and the depths of the East. I can assure you, therefore, that my place needs stability, calmness, optimism and perspective. The electoral law tabled by the government and we are called upon to vote is truly fair. He's more proportional than the law that applied until last July. The bonus, which you've possessed, yes, but it's escalating. To get it a party needs to gather 25% and for each half unit above it extracts an additional seat as bonuses. To get all fifty bonus seats, the first party must have raised 40% of those who voted. The aim is to be to be able in a fairer way to ensure the rulership and stability of the country and to reflect the will of the Greek citizens who vote. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. I repeat the word 'governance' again and again because the results of the mere proportional view in practice in local government. So many examples have been heard in this Chamber, and I will also recall that in September 2019 in the Municipality of Orestiad, the mayor who was elected more than 50% was unable to manage from the first Sunday because of the mere proportionalness he does not have a majority. In the Municipality of Patras, the municipal authority, which also comes from the area of the JRC, cannot vote for a budget because of the mere analogy. See examples, then, from local government and showcase the future of the country to see what to avoid. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the new electoral law and from the corners of the opposition will be a proof that we will have matured as a political system, that we can see the dangers and we are able to put our national interest above the party. The Greek Parliament sent a message of this kind with Mrs Katerina Sakellaropoulou's announcement to President of the Republic with votes and opposition. Our country's stability must not be kept in the balance with the party benefit. Nobody has the right to do it. Simple analogue is a trap. We see it abroad too. We mustn't fall into it. I invite you to close and seal the coup d'etat of instability and instability. I invite you to vote on the new electoral law for the good of this place, for the present and for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask you once again, ladies and gentlemen, to keep the time, because there are a number of colleagues who will not be able to speak today. Mr. Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the debate on electoral law requires a high sense of parliamentary responsibility and an expression of the will of the electorate. It therefore seeks harmony between cyberdynamicity and greater functional representativeness. Minister, let us make it clear that conflicts and partnerships are not enforced by any electoral law. They require a culture of overcoming and programming commitments and, of course, do not take place with the transcripts of people, i.e. useful opportunities, as we have seen in the recent past. Cooperation between parties must be based on ideological considerations with common reference to their ideological core, which will respond to the needs of society by serving the national interest. In this direction the Change Movement has a place that is consistently and over time supportive. And he means cooperation with wider forces in the progressive space, with which he is electorally associated. Because we have seen it and experienced it that the culture of cooperation is not built on the name of the anti-immemorandum and indignant, and we have seen it with the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Perhaps the historian of the future, beyond the previous government's policy, which we have condemned many times, will be the mistake in the choice of its partner. It was an option that removed the progressive sign of the partnerships, which for the Central Left is also the case and led to the well-known saying that the people said and SYRIZA acted: "we will rule even if we have to work with the devil." These logics do not govern us, and I will even say that they have short feet and you find them in front of them. So we are coming today to the debate on the electoral law without seeing that something changes for the next national elections. In fact, it is recorded that the next elections will take place on a mere analogous basis. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is clearer that a brief bill of five articles, which only restores the bonus of fifty seats, cannot gather two hundred votes to change SYRIZA's electoral law. On the other hand, the government followed the conservative logic of false self - power, a logic that the country has paid for in previous years. In conclusion, I would say that the government may move and, with the thought of double elections, a thought which leads to the fact that anyone who digs the pit of the other usually falls in. Minister, again applaud the law of Paulopoulos. However, adopt a architecture similar to that proposed by the Change Movement. But there is a major difference between the two proposals. We in the Change Movement propose thirty-five seats as a maximum bonus, and this is to prevent the election result from being altered, and secondly, a bonus seat in addition as an additional bonus for every 1% over 25% and not a bonus seat for every half of your suggestion, which the bonus launches in the fifty seats. Our proposal is to serve both proportionality and representativeness. That is our qualitative difference, Minister. The regulation allows you to parties with 36.7% to form a self-powered government. While our proposal allows self-powered government more than 40.5%. So our proposal has a greater resonance on the electorate. As for the provision of the bonus for the coalition of parties, which you in fact do not adopt and condemn, and you are voting against it, I would remind you that this is not the first time that it has been discussed. The House debated it in 2003, in 2008, in 1990. The Scientific Service of the Parliament was consulted by prescribers. It has been discussed, I would say, in the legal world and everyone has concluded that the regulation violates popular sovereignty. Let me remind you that it was abolished by the law of Scandalidis. He came back with the law of Pavlopoulou. We saw SYRIZA from a coalition becoming a single party so he could get the bonus. We are still in the same debate today. Let us make it clear, however, that this arrangement provides for a different approach to individual parties and parties coalitions and that the popular verdict is being altered. However, it does not respect the citizens' vote, which is why this regulation cannot be accepted by us. Ladies and gentlemen, we note with disappointment, I would say, that the New Democracy Government has also dealt with the question of the change of electoral law, a major issue concerning the core of our political system for the proper functioning of the society. Because what would be beneficial and we waited for the government to act was for a real intergroup dialogue to be held in Parliament, to discuss all the major issues, such as the financing of parties, electoral expenditure, political corruption with black political money, the involvement of the media, everything that is the path of our political system. That's why he didn't open a nostril. We have proposed transparency measures to finance the parties. We have said: all of their finances in 'TRAINING'. To exercise control of the parties' finances, electoral expenses and a committee of senior judges chaired by the Bank of Greece's Vice-President, so that we leave the current situation that politicians are both at the same time and controlled and controlled. We have also proposed that the parties' budgets be exceeded, so as to put an end to the vicious circle of party debts. Of course, we are asking for any private contribution of more than 100 euros to be made public. To put an end to this, then, to the black political money, of course, and to the complexity. In the event of non-publication, penalties shall be provided for. In short, then, I would say that our position and our proposal as a Change Movement is clear. We want an electoral law that ensures political stability, strengthens the credibility of the political system, reflecting the popular will, not to make flatter majorities. Refresh the political system as a whole with innovative arrangements for the funding of parties and the involvement of the media. We want an electoral law that will allow the citizens to be represented more proportionally, will guarantee the fertile sense and understanding between the political forces for programming convergences and cooperation governments. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the challenges facing us are many at both European and domestic level, particularly with our nationalities. That is why national consultation is required. This bill, however, restores political forces again to new biased perceptions. So we disagree with this bill and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Vernardakis now has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Haritis, also by SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, Minister, I think this is an opportunity when we discuss a bill like the electoral law to make an effort in some way to raise the cognitive level of public dialogue, which is one of the big problems in the country. That is why I want to make a few remarks on this, because some arguments are heard and rehearsed and I have heard a number of the comments. I kind of want to make a few points about what is being said as arguments. First of all, let us make it clear that the rule of law and what you want to do about the one-party governments is another thing. Indeed, the simple analogue does not produce one-party government. That's a fact. It does not, however, mean that the absence of a one-party government refers to a lack of governance. I would remind you here, because you are bringing it in, the 1989 example of the mere analogy applied and the way it was implemented at that time. You are right about the pretext, in a way, just before the elections. That's for sure. He solved this political system. In 1989, however, a government was produced. There was the Jandetaki government. Then there was the Zolota government. To reach the elections in April 1990, there were governments. The country has not remained unresolved. It is another thing that there was no one-party government from the first party - right, that is historically right - but it is also historically untrue that there was no government. There was the government, which, in the context of that time and those agreements and that dialogue at that time, was created by government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u11	I mean, if you do three governments in one year, do we have proficiency?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u12	I'll get to that, too. Wait. We need to have a real debate. Thank you very much for the remark. The second thing I wanted to say is that there is no question of instability. The simple analogue where it has been applied - proportional systems in fact, because simple analogue systems are not one thing, the analogue systems are many types and many speeds - nowhere arises either bibliographically or pragmatically at the moment, if you look at the political systems and party shapes in Europe, nowhere is the idea that simple analogue has led to instability in the post-war period. In the pre-war period, we have a different juncture. I shall also refer to this. On the contrary, where we have analogue systems and where we have governments of cooperation, we have also had long periods of instability and something that you are probably ignoring is that we have had the greatest periods of economic recovery in countries of Europe. I'm bringing a fourth argument. Bring us, he says, an example of what would happen from the other parties than the first if a simple proportional system were to be applied. But the mere analogue doesn't think the first party will do any government. Around the first party will become a government. That's obvious, it's obvious, it's mathematically right, it's politically right, it's programmatically right. Alongside the first party, there will be programme convergences. This is the leader of a governmental potential alliance if a government of alliance is implemented. This has shown the whole history of application of analogue systems. That thing can't come to him. That is foreseeable, because the government is not, in the first place, produced. Unless we go to a tolerance government, which is a special case. But the trend, the reality is that around the first party governments will be organised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u13	Your comrades used to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u14	I say what I say. Is that right? And that's obvious and obvious. And because you said so, Mr Parliamentary Representative, yesterday, I actually reply to you. I would therefore like to say to you, in essence, that the analogue systems form governments around the first party. They do not form around the second or third party or the fourth party, unless we have emergency procedures, major crises, but the normal course is that. As far as culture of cooperation is concerned, I am sorry. Aren't you working with the public administration? The judges don't cooperate with each other? Universities don't cooperate with each other? Now what kind of argument is that in Greece as a strange DNA there is no, he says, a culture of cooperation. The governments that existed after 2012 were not co-operation governments? Let's leave out the political burden they had and what they wanted to do and how they came up. They weren't co-operation governments? And, indeed, they were governments of long-term cooperation. In other words, the government 2012-2015 ruled three years and the government 2015-2019 ruled four years. In other words, we have had long-term cooperation governments. So that would be a good argument not to bring it in. We are going to make a substantial argument now, which brings us to the essence of the debate. In 1990 the New Democracy, with 47%, did not make its own government. That's right. What does that mean, though? This means that the electoral law was paradoxical in relation to the reality of social representations. When you have strong party delegations, when you have 45%, 46%, 47%, that is, strong social and political representations - and then, in those years, we had two parties moving to the limit and to the 40% -45% periphery - a proportional system actually creates a problem of forming a government, if the parties of course do not want to work together. It is therefore not the electoral law that produces the problem, but it is the stability or non-stability of electoral and social delegations. Backwards now in 2012, while we have fragmentation of political delegations and party delegations, the system of over-enhanced bonus proportional to the bonus does not make a government. So don't put the horse in front of the cart. The electoral system is always a system that somehow comes to express, organize, condone what kind of party system there is at that time and what processes are there for forming a party system. So why is the system of mere proportional or better analogous today more appropriate, so that you do not mind the simple analogy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u15	To be precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, that's right. You are right, too, in this matter, because the simple analogue is of many kinds. That's a fact. Because we are actually living in a treaty of division of political and party delegations. It is extremely difficult to have parties of 45% again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u17	40%?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u18	Forty percent, of course, it's easy. But 40% is a limiting treaty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Madam President. But we'll see how this thing is to be shaped. But it's not just one party. We need to build a party system around 40% or 45% representations, so that we can say and establish that, indeed, a scorched bonus would have a worthy bonus for this story to create a government. Otherwise, we are creating a problem of political legitimacy. The greater the divergence between party delegations and the electoral system that is disproportionate, the greater political legitimacy of the operation of the party system, we are creating. So it's not a matter for us. And you have a point of principle in the disproportionate systems, and we have as a principle a mere analogy. However, the point is not to give the two of our principles to see what is the heaviest. The point is that an electoral system must respond to the structure of party and political and social delegations. If you believe that in the coming years the party system will move to parties of 45% or 50% under the given conditions of a cultural and social context, then I think you are wrong. In this sense, the logic of the mere proportional or, if you like, the proportional electoral system, to be more precise, is better, more democratic and more flexible in dealing with things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u20	I'm closing, Madam President. I have to say that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u21	Yes, Mr. Colleague, but you've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u22	Yeah. It is crucial, however, that this and I ask for tolerance. I want to say about the simple analogue and the Republic of Baimar. I think that here we really need to stand up to a serious historical review, which wants to forget the conditions of the economy, social alliances, landowners, the alliance of big capital with landowners, etc., which has led to the rise of Nazism in Germany. We're still putting the cart in front of the horse. "We think that it is the field that Mr Gerapitris said, thankfully he withdrew after that, he said it was the context of mere analogy. But the frame...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Comrade, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u24	If we're going to blame other contexts, that's the free market. Don't forget that. In this sense, I think we should be very careful about what we render to the simple analogue and what limits we now place in the public debate in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Haritou has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask you very much to keep up with the time, because they will be left unspeakable. And immediately afterwards, Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, simply proportional is a key issue, politically charged. It is the point where the dividing line begins between the forces of progress on the one hand and the maintenance on the other, respect for the equivalence of the vote of citizens or of its mistake, the defence of democracy or its undermining. The deepest reason why you are discrediting and undermining the simple analogue, as you did when the previous House voted for it, but also today when you are abolishing it, do you know who they are, gentlemen? You want to disintegrate the robbery electoral systems of the enhanced proportional, with which you have ruled the country for decades, electoral systems that are identified in the consciousness of society with the regime of anti-popular policies, the client state, corruption and interlocutory. They are identified with the right-wing state that you are resuscitating today because it's probably in your DNA. As much as the current Prime Minister is attempting to present a consensual profile as it has done these days, making the need for ambition to vote for the President of the Republic, unfortunately, returns to the acquaintances of tension and polarization in political life. Why else is the return to the polling systems? It is the womb, gentlemen, that, in order to fertilize and produce false self-powered majorities, it needs to be fuelled by splitting, by extortional falsities. It takes half-blooded messages, division into patriots or not, as we experienced in the previous period. They need to revive the separate cafeterias. Only you forget, gentlemen, that society has moved forward and you want to turn it back again. You forget that governments do not make electoral systems, but societies, citizens with their vote. They dictate with their will and their vote what programme, how they want and from whom they should be governed. And today, gentlemen, they have maturity and we trust their judgment. You, gentlemen, do not trust the citizens, fear their judgment, want to mislead their will. You deny the equality of citizens' vote, its equivalence in the formulation of political developments. You deny society itself the right to take responsibility for its elections by a genuinely representative system, such as the simple analogue. You spend it like a ghost from which democracy is at risk. Today's Prime Minister said so very typically in the previous period. He said: "The simple analogue" - listen! - "contrasts simple logic", i.e. the equivalence of the vote of all citizens is almost irrational to the Prime Minister, while its distortion and counterfeiting are the logic. What can anyone say? It seems very square to me that logic. I am following you, gentlemen, to exhort the enhanced analogy system to the stepping-up bonus of almost fifty seats as the only one that produces stable governments. You probably didn't understand anything since the memorial years, what happened from 2010 onwards. Do you remember with what election system elections were held? With a reinforced analogy, gentlemen. Do you understand why the people were changing one after the other government? They destabilized, gentlemen, because the policies that were being implemented were in complete disharmony with the expectations and feelings of the citizens, because they led society to despair and threw the country on the rocks. It is true, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that we have heard in the past and, for your part, that the conditions for simple proportionalness are not mature, that a set of changes are needed, from changes to large-scale constituencies, the vote on impunity, the control of expenditure, until the political parties are matured. You were talking about it. Today you will understand that apart from the latter, that is, the maturement of the political parties, everything else does not exist, it is in a process of resolution. If you have a problem as a party, as a New Democracy, I can understand that, gentlemen. You are, indeed, many parties in the packet of one, but that is why neither simple analogue nor democracy is to blame. Let me remind you that a bomb on the foundations of democracy is simply proportional. Do you remember who said that? The current Prime Minister. In other words, large economies in Europe, Germany, Spain and others are moving with a bomb on their foundations. Another is the bomb you're afraid of, gentlemen, and indeed it's bracelet and it's on the foundation of your own party. Ladies and gentlemen, as everything shows, the next elections will be held with the system of simple proportionality. Deactivate the bomb now, as you call it, you can no longer. Perhaps you missed the opportunity at the time with the Revision of the Constitution, amending Article 54, to disable it, as you say. You didn't. You see, at that time, the Prime Minister's profile didn't match the role of the pyrotechnic, but the role of the political officer in charge. Now we hear, we read him in other roles, in this bourgeoisie, burning, they say, the simple analogue, driving the country into double elections. I don't know whose wish these are. I know one, gentlemen of the government, that with fire no one plays when the air starts blowing. And with the policies that you are implementing and which perpetuate the expectations of the citizens every day, we will probably have a lot of boars. So be careful not to find any surprises, surrounded by the fire you're going to put. I would remind you that the progressive proposal for the governance of the place is already on the table and is constantly finding it sound. We in SYRIZA will work for it and, of course, all of us will be judged strictly, gentlemen of the Change Movement, for the attitude we will take from the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government, loyal to its ideological strangles, insists on reintroducing a system of enhanced proportionality that alters the Greek people's true will, as it is expressed every time in the electoral process. It reintroduces that electoral system which makes legislation completely controlled by the governments concerned. He has already done so in local government, altering the results of the recent elections, giving absolute sovereignty to the majority, without even having emerged in power, as he says. The same must now be done, as far as the national elections are concerned, in prophesying that there can be no co-operation government without the first party having the provocative bonus of fifty seats. The New Democracy is indeed allergic to any genuine form of democracy, it considers that it cannot cooperate in this place with two and more political forces that can agree on an agenda of political and priorities. It requires their merger. The years of the memorials, bankruptcy, social destruction taught nothing to those who organized the client state and plundered the property of the Greek people. You still consider your state property and think you can do whatever you want without giving an account to anyone. And to be more sure, you bring a piece of legislation very little improved in relation to the electoral law that is in force today, thus seeking to ensure not the rulership, but immunity: immunity, which allows you to change the result of the elections as it suits you, as you did in the elections to local government. The immunity, which allows the current Prime Minister to have the impunity for the maritime loans he took. The immunity to grant immunity to bank managers for loans to parties and media in the past, so that they can repeat them in the future. The immunity of retrospectively changing the typical products of the OSH commander. Immunities to increase the poster to the Ministries without any measure. Immunity to bring back the CDC's sinful past. Immunity to recognize Night Degrees. The immunity to destroy any independent authority which does not suit you, as was the case with the Competition Committee and with all those that have been abolished for the baptisms otherwise, by putting your party members. Immunity to abolish labour legislation whenever one of the employers or BSE asks you to do so. The immunity not to deal with the real needs of society, but with the needs of an elite that finances you. You are afraid of real parliamentary and social control. You're afraid someone can cut you off, even if you're government. Fear that the Greek people have begun to understand that all you are interested in is creating customers and not working for the general welfare of the people. You fear that there may be processes in society that will bring about real and lasting reconstructions. You are afraid that you may at some point lose your inherited right to power. You're not afraid of insolence. You are afraid of the real control that a legislative body can exercise that restricts the respective government and obliges it to use real arguments instead of party discipline. The fear of the loss of power is the one that leads you to bring back a parliamentary abortion, not just by excluding a co-operation government but also by excluding even political forces from the bonus provided for. In recent years there has been an attempt by SYRIZA to strengthen democratic institutions, to upgrade Parliament's role, to make a constitutional reform in a progressive direction. You have stirred, wherever and as you have been able, this process, because you are really afraid of the genuine imprint of democracy. Fear the Greek people and you want to have him in subjection by offering him children's pocket money, reaching point six months after the elections to prejudge the outcome of the next elections, saying that there will be double elections to "burn" the simple analogy. You are even preparing people for early elections, not because it is required by circumstances or a national reason or an emergency, but because you want to prevent people from feeling your real anti-social priorities. It is unprecedented for a six-month government to prepare national elections from the first quarter of its government, obviously wanting to prevent the reconstruction of the Anti-Population Officer and, secondly, the needs of the Greek society. You are allegedly committed to elections at the end of the four-year period and you cannot convince your fanatical supporters either. The journalists who have been stubbornly lying and slandering against SYRIZA and Tsipra have brought you to power now speak openly of early elections. This scenario is being reinforced and according to official figures I think you will go to an early elections - I do not know if it will be spring or autumn 2020 - at the expense of the social deadlocks that your own policy will create, your economic policy. According to official data available for critical indicators of the economy, I inform you that turnover and industrial index have a monthly change in November 2019 and a decline of 7.9% compared to November 2018 when we had an increase of 7.6% in 2017 in the corresponding month. Comparative figures of annual change in December 2018 with November 2019 show a decline of 1.2% in total. In the 12-month period 2017-2018, we had a growth of 9.4%. We have a sharp drop in processing which reaches 4.9% in November. Exports - including oilseeds - in November 2019 decreased by EUR 347.9 million or by 11.4%, with a zero increase in the nine months of January - November 2019, while in the corresponding period of 2017-2018 we had an increase record. There is alarming news, however, in the labour market too. The figures published in the "ERGAN" system for December 2019 show: firstly, that in the second half the permanent jobs were 42% of 48%, which was the corresponding first half. We have the worst four-year performance in new jobs and we have historically worse performance of six-month-old indicators in redundancies. All of this shows that very soon you will be at the expense of the social deadlocks of your policy. This is your real picture. You really care about the needs of the country, you do not care about the national interests, you do not care about the priorities of society. You only care about the power, the service of your strong friends and, of course, the pillaging of the public funds with pies of 12,000 euros in ministries and district, with armies of party officials everywhere, with specially increased wages for your party accomplished, as you do at PPC. We are not afraid of either the simple or the reinforced analogy. We believe in democracy and we are sure that the Greek people will identify in time the great differences in the way you exercise governance and in the way that we managed to be responsible. It will understand more quickly than you calculate, that we worked for the good of the place, while you work for the good of an oligarchy that supports you and from which you come. The next election, whatever you do, will take place in a mere proportional manner. The Greek people will finally decide whether there will be double elections or whether there will be a government that will work for more democracy, for more social justice, for a transition to a progressive world. We'll be ready and we'll wait for you in the polls whenever you decide according to your own measurements. We will overthrow your measurements, overthrow your hereditary right, restore the authority where it really belongs to the Greek people. In conclusion, one response to the majority friends: Mr. Vernardakis said nothing different than what all SYRIZA officials in the Chamber and his president. You're interpreting according to what you're saying, saying that we're gonna be the next government. We say, as Mr Vernardakis said, that the first party is meant to be the dealer of the mandate management the next day. But you do go too far and say that we will be the first party. That will be decided by the Greek people. Don't be so arrogant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. It's Mr. Kegeroglu's turn to speak, but he's not here. Immediately after that is Mr. Voloudakis from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Colleagues, you are saying that you are not afraid of the elections and are trying to show and that you will be the first party. We have spent a lot of time in which, Mr. Colleague, you were telling us every few minutes - before 2015 - that when you were in the Anti-Population strands, as you are now, you see the polls and have drawn the election conclusions from them. The last polls, you didn't see them? You talk as if you are coming back to society, which has recently spoken, and in an absolute way, puts you in your place. In any case, I come to the point. One of the timeless myths of the Left, with which it has truly blocked society and public debate in our country, is the one saying that the simple and inappropriate analogous, such as its full title for the Left, is the fairest system, is the electoral system of paradise. The opponents of this idea say - and rightly so - that they propose that simple analogue leads to instability, does not promote the governance of the place, and that is why it is a problematic system that needs to be corrected by various regulations. It is all right, but it does not address another central issue to which I should like to refer. In fact, simple analogue is an unjust system and that is what I want to focus on. Justice in democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is not exhausted in the way the seats are distributed. This may burn politicians, but this is not the absolute criterion for an election system. Justice for there to be, must also be reflected and operated at the level of the decision-making process. In this area, both in terms of legislative power and its results in terms of executive power, simply proportionally is an unfair system. Why am I saying that? Because it is a system that gives a disproportionate weight to any party, which, with a small percentage, can gain a decisive, key and crucial role in the evolution of things. I'm going to say it with a simple example. A party that would have a hundred and forty-nine seats and cannot form a government and has probably taken over 40% in the elections will need in the simple analogue another party to give it the two seats missing for an absolute majority, a party that may have taken 3%. This 3% party will thus become the absolute regulator. He'll block everything he doesn't like and so 3% of society will actually arrange for political life and allow things to go in whatever direction it wants. That can't be fair. I believe that the debate on the issue of stability and governance and what has happened in other countries has been exhausted. We must, however, see this dimension which has not been sufficiently discussed. Paradise, ladies and gentlemen, does not have an election system. And if he had, that wouldn't be mere analog. In our home country we already have examples of the use of mere analogous. This is how things have come - and it is no accident - so that it spends many years of its implementation for once until the system is reused. We had in 1926 with very unpleasant consequences, in 1946 with very great instability, in 1989 when we remember them. People forget in the meantime and the simple and inappropriate paradise proportionate! Today we also have the historical experience, where we can look back on international experience, but also on the example of municipal elections. The Greeks in local communities have realised that we are simply proportional to a regime in which no decision can be taken unless there is consultation, which can often lead to the transaction. Because I believe that a point which has not been sufficiently developed in dialogue is that international experience shows that simply analogues create some permanent players in political systems, which are very likely - as is the case where there is permanentity - to develop such dimensions in their policy. I think the example of the Christian Democrat Party in Italy is characteristic. From there on, a point of the electoral law to which there is criticism, is the difficulty of giving bonuses to parties' coalitions. That's right, and that's very fair. If some political forces have a joint proposal to the Greek people to make a party. This means 'a party'. It is not possible for any opportunity to get a bonus equivalent to what is received by a party that has a clear, stable, overall position on things. The electoral law cannot favour opportunism. So what about this electoral law? What is this terrible divergence from the proportionality that is being achieved to have stability, governance and an opportunity for the country to develop, as society requires? In fact, this deviation from full proportionality is 10%. And I will say very briefly how that results. Of the three hundred seats, the two fifty are divided by the simple analogue. The other fifty is the bonus that someone will get with the most pro rata law than the previous one we bring. A first party will only get the bonus if it has 40%. Of these fifty seats, since it has 40% and with a simple analogue it would take about twenty. I say 'approximately' because there are, at any rate, the normalizations that are taking place. About twenty, well, he'd take them anyway. So only thirty seats are, if you want, the pure bonus of the first, so 10% deviation from the perfectly simple analogue. This is therefore a price to the way in which the seats are allocated which is very right to pay, so that we have not only governance and stability but also a fairer way of making decisions in legislative and executive power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I shall give the floor now to Mr Kegeroglu and immediately thereafter Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy follows. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important issue for the functioning of our democratic culture, but I am obliged to begin with an observation concerning SYRIZA's colleagues, who once again came to blame the Change Movement, PASOK, and even Andreas Papandreou. Mr Vernadakis said a moment ago that the adoption of the simple analogous system in 1989 was a pretext. They forget to SYRIZA that they voted for the simple analogue immediately after the September 2015 elections and not before, before the elections that calculated they would lose. But Mr Tsipras - Mr Vernardakis is giving me the opportunity to speak - in his speech yesterday - has shown that he himself forgets or rather does not want to remember. He spoke about the refugee - immigration and he forgets that he co-signed the European Union - Turkey agreement, which is the root of the problem, after handing over the keys to the Turks. He talked about the protection of the first residence, and he forgets that he was the one who abolished Law 3869 on the protection of the first residence, bringing an interim provision which the New Democracy now exploits and says: "But SYRIZA has abolished it." And for the refugee issue the New Democracy says the same thing. He says: "SYRIZA has signed the EU-Turkey Agreement. What should we do?’ And I don't want to recall much else, because you're talking about retired people and others, and you forget that you were the ones who abolished the ESS, and today Brutsis says, "But it was abolished by SYRIZA and I don't know how to bring it back to the budget." So we need a little more wisdom to be able to reach agreement - if there is a will in this Chamber - because the beginning of the new decade finds Greece in the face of new challenges, serious, at national, regional and European level, and it needs truth and memory, and of course, looking into the future. Society continues to experience the problems of the crisis and the policies that have been pursued so far. In view of this, I think it is clear that our proposal to form a national strategy with consultation is an undeniable necessity. We are talking about a consensus on all national issues, all major issues in the country. The electoral system is one of them. It is about the functioning of our democratic representative system. In the case of Greek foreign vote, the constitutional requirement of the two-seats, according to the 2001 Constitution, was the one that forced - in and out of import - and the government to do what the need for esteem and seek consent. This is evidenced by the fact that in the case of the electoral law we are now discussing, it did not seek any consensus. Yes, but he's telling you it won't apply the first time, but it's going to run the second one. The vote of the Greeks abroad would not have taken place at all. We have different viewpoints from the parties, and that, of course, is their right, but it seems that micro-party purposes are dominated mainly by New Democracy and SYRIZA. The Change Movement continues to be dealt with responsibly. Based on the experience of post-population, we are proposing the creation of a similar electoral system, which will at the same time contribute to the formation of government majorities, but not necessarily one-party one-party one-party system. We believe in a reasonable bonus that will strengthen governance, but will not distort democracy. So we avoid the insolence of mere analogy, but we do not consent to the excessive bonus of the fifty seats. Let us see some aspects of the proposals from the other parties, the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Let's start with the simple analogy. Based on the results of the two, the last three elections, but also on the basis of the polls and all that we have experienced, with simple analogy, cooperation between a first and a second party is mandatory. Mandatory! And we directly ask the SYRIZA who proposes it: that in the next elections, if you are a second party, will you cooperate with the New Democracy so that there will not be insolence? It's a simple question. Can you answer? You are obviously going to tell us 'no'. And why would you tell us 'no'? Because if you said 'yes', you would have been inconsistent, because during the time we were in the heart of the crisis, you refused to participate in the governments of national understanding that were then imposed, it was a national need. So now you're gonna tell us you're going to cooperate? So you suggest insolence. So let's go down. If you come to the next first party election, will you renounce the bonus? You are obviously going to tell me 'no'. Is it possible to renounce the bonus? You didn't do it in January 2015, in September, will you do it now? So you don't believe in what you're suggesting. You're insincere. You're unreliable. Let's confirm your unreliability. In June 2015, on SYRIZA, we tabled a proposal for a law on the abolition of the excess bonus of fifty seats. You said you were dealing with others and forgot about the electoral system until the September elections. We reminded you of this with a proposal for a law that we tabled. He wanted one day of debate in the House, voting, to be true. Why didn't you bring her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u33	They forgot her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u34	You know, they've got the answer ready. "It was..." - says - "...Chairman of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, and we could not agree." It's the answer. It seems, therefore, that you are insecure social and political and that you cannot be trusted. Because and then we trusted you, we voted for the bad agreement with which you brought after Greece to the edge of the cliff and you instead of forming a climate of consensus to move forward, you went to elections. So we have one issue to do with credibility. And because SYRIZA and New Democracy roam on bonuses in parties coalitions, I will say this: Look, the bonus in parties coalitions that will be created after the elections, with an unknown programme that the Greek people will not have voted on, gives it the law. It says, in other words, the law that after the elections, let it become SYRIZA - ANEL. We have a precedent. Bonus's getting it all right. Who said the party coalition will not take place after the elections? He does not, he says, give it to parties coalitions before the elections, that is, like us, the Change Movement, which in the previous elections - which have elected this House - we had come down as a party coalition. It is a movement of change, PASOK, a movement of Democrats of Socialists, SAR, Renewal Left, Citizen Movements. We don't take it theoretically according to the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Comrade, please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u36	Even if we had come down to the previous election, even if we were to come down as a party coalition again, we wouldn't take it. But if we have an election result and the alpha party cooperates with the beta, regardless of programs the people don't know, the bonus will get it. This is a huge contradiction of the law, which has not been justified by the New Democracy, which - to close with them - after the break of the consensus of the proposal for the President of the Republic returns to the traditional logic of the majority systems. Systems, as has been proven, do not save bad policies. The issue is good country policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u38	The systems progressively and other traditionally and historically have seen that they do not save bad policies. The people always decide the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time. There are too many colleagues who will stay off the list. They will not be able to speak if we continue with that logic. Please keep your time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Korydalou High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Bartzokas, my colleague from New Democracy, for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law we are debating is a basic proclamation of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In this sense it is a commitment to the Greek people, which we are now coming to do. This commitment was absolutely political. We promised to abolish the simple analogue introduced by the outgoing government and to rule out once and for all the possibility of our country reintroducing into a paralytic state, especially when it has returned to normal and better days. Before I analyse the basic arguments in favour of the necessity of the new electoral law, which, in my opinion, finds the gold incision between two leading applicants, proportional representation and governance, I would like to make a revert to the recent past. I want to go back to 2016, i.e. in the period when the previous electoral law was passed, a period that may seem far away, but it is not at all. And I say that, because it may have been four years since then, but our memories are still fresh. So a full government period of SYRIZA had elapsed, with the well-known recurring recurrings of the famous negotiation and heavy statements about the sketching of the memorials, but instead, the signing of one more and all that the Greek people did not forget. That's why he deserved you to be here today in a minority. In this first period, SYRIZA did not change the electoral law, although the invocation of mere analogy was its basic electoral slogan. The change in the electoral law came after being shown to be a winner twice. In other words, after using a electoral law, whose predictions he took advantage of twice. This change, of course, was no accident at all. Even the most well-meaning criticism could not ignore the fact that the choice of the timing was only neutral. It happened when all polls in 2016 brought New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis over ten points ahead, when you knew, in other words, that the next election exercise holds for you the location of the loser. But let us get out of this and look at the arguments you have made at the time. You have called the pre-existing electoral laws positive that they manipulate popular will and serve opportunistic party purposes. You also said that the economic crisis was the sole responsibility of the self-government governments. You praised the co-operation governments, stressing that this is what the modern needs of pluralism, democracy and social cohesion require, as if this hybrid of cooperative government that you formed with the ANELs were responding to your arguments. Let us respond at some point to what ideological and programmatic shocks you shared, because people think you didn't have much in common. Besides, of course, being able to stay in power in every way. I am making this retrospective, to point out that your invocation for pure motives and for deepening democracy is not very convincing. However, the New Democracy will not follow your own question. We do not change the electoral law that you have enacted, obeying an opportunistic attitude. Firstly, the time we choose is indeed neutral. Elections are not going to take place soon. The country can't afford any more adventures. In addition, the mandate we have received from the Greek people is very strong. Secondly - in order to come to the essence - we are changing the electoral law, because we are not ignoring basic assumptions, but also the historical experience of our country. We begin, first of all, from the assumption that there are no perfect electoral systems. There are only functional and non-functional. The system of enhanced analogy also demonstrated that it worked and was not a deterrent for governments of cooperation. After all, that is what the electorate decides, not the electoral law. Let us finally admit that for the Greek crisis it was not our electoral law, our constitution or, in general, the institutions. Our problems were in politics. It was the political choices that were to blame. It should also be recalled that the model of mere analogy is not unknown. It has been applied in the country not once, but eight times. All eight times it completely failed. So, if we want to be honest, we can't sell the simple analogue as a savior of our problems. We cannot, however, ignore the fact that the premium on the sole basis of the first criterion is not balanced. In accordance with the criterion of balance and justice, the New Democracy is changing the electoral law with dominant points: The enhanced proportionality remains because it is assessed as the most compatible system according to our country's historical, geographical and political data. However, the premium procedure is streamlined. The two-five seats are divided among the Members in a proportional manner, as is already the case. The other fifty seats are divided into parties. In other words, it is the election force of each party that determines how the fifty seats will be given. So this is a fairer system than the present one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this new, fairer and more balanced model of electoral law introduced, tactics are abundant. We must stop the consensus being a free card, so that we can finally prove to the citizens that we can reach agreement on the basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA to prepare Mr Kouvellas from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the electoral law, the way in which Members of our representative democratic system will be elected. The debate on the electoral law between the political forces is traditionally taking place in the territory of two different fields: the first is ideological, that is to say, the view that each party has on the basis of its principles and values and, secondly, the micro-political, i.e. the timely regular planning of the parties for the next two elections, so that the electoral system favours it on the basis of its prediction. But in practical terms, what do we have today? The New Democracy, assisted by the far right-wing satellite, the Greek Solution, abolishes the simple analogue voted by SYRIZA, ANEL and the Central Association in a neutral political time, in 2016 - was three years before the elections - and restores the 50 seats bonus in a step-by-step manner. SYRIZA, KINAL, Mer25, KKE vote against on the basis of their positions. On the basis of the two criteria above, the ideological mark and the micro-party benefit, we see how the parties are placed. The New Democracy, and traditionally the Right, has a centralized concept of parliamentarianism, as if it were dissatisfied with open democratic base and consensus processes. It treats citizens as customers, by exchanging ruffles, against voters, it salutes the state by establishing the party state, it controls the independent authorities by appointing persons with a conflict of interest and a party plagiarity and it is generally prophesied by an aristocratic view that power does not share, it is for the excellence. We have also recently seen them with the hospital managers, with the posters without a degree and with an increased wage and so on. Recently, under the pretext of the final state, it imposes an extremist prime-centred governance model that does not respect either internal-party democracy or collective operation. All run by Maximos, all the ministers are decorative or several are decorative and the critical portfolios belong to an unelected, elite Prime Minister, without democratic legitimacy. A male start, then. It makes sense, then, to want an electoral system that the first takes it all, to steal the fifty seats from the smaller parties, to impose mono-party governments of absolute immunity. As far as consent is concerned, they run out of communication in the institution of the President of the Republic and there. And I want to answer Mr. Gerapititi, on the occasion of his yesterday's position. After acquitted those who really did - because they brought Hitler to power and brought the example of the mere analogy of the Republic of Baimar, you as a New Democracy, Minister of State, Mr Gerapeititi - if you can hear me - do not deny the simple analogy for anti-fascist reasons. Refusing her because ruling alone allows you not to account for what you're doing. And you are already forgetting that this model of governance has bankrupt the country. And so, of course, it will happen again if this is not interrupted. Micro-groups now, New Democracy is changing the electoral law, because it believes that after winning the 2019 elections with the anti-SYRIZA front and symptoming with the lies in the "Macedonian" in the refugee, but also with the complication she felt threatened, it will win over and over again. But you are not right, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the next elections will be held on a simple analogue basis, and you will be as alone today as you are alone. And, indeed, you will also be with fifty Members, at least, less. The vote, which you have been telling us, goes to the vote of the homosexuals, since today you are blatantly violating it. As for the governance you are referring to, I have to tell you this: Minister, you make a deliberate error when you analyse earlier election results - as you did yesterday in your speech - in the sense that there would be no government if we took the old election results and the simple proportional effect had been applied. The logic, however, says that citizens vote by having the electoral law on the table and in their minds. So with a simple analogue, there would be more parties to the elections, and the citizen would decide with more freedom and not by blackmail from the logic of useful vote. For example, in the self-government that applied the mere proportional system, we saw nine and ten groups going down, so that they could work together, while with the enhanced analogue or other systems, few and large formations came down. So don't make void comparisons to support the impeccable argument of rulership. We, as SYRIZA, are firm in the values of democracy and of the people's participation that the Left and the progressive party has advocated and acted in 2016, in our permanent position on simple analogues, with the limit of 3%, of course, imposed for national reasons. We are in favour of the referendums, of the popular legislative initiative, which is why we have also brought proposals in the Revision of the Constitution. I'm giving you a parentheses, to catch up with you, because tomorrow's first SYRIZA win has been completed since January 25, 2015. From various wings, then, in the House you were telling us - and you keep saying - "We saw how respectful the referendum in 2015". And today it sounds. I will say this because, at last, we also owe an answer to this propaganda: On Wednesday, then, the referendum by Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister, then, made a speech to the Greek people - see the video - and he said it clearly: 'We want 'no' to the agreement to strengthen our negotiating position and bring us a better one. And "no" is not a break command. And that's exactly what we did. If we were to say other things, it might have been the result. That's why it's the specula. And don't tell us why we didn't vote for the simple analogue in the first semester. Then we tried to cope with the trap of the left parentheses you set us up in and out of the country. So, should we have anticipated the September elections to change the electoral law before? And what did Mr. Kegeroglu say to us? That, in other words, we'd take the two seats then, if we could bring it in and apply from the next day? They're funny arguments. The parentheses are closed. We believe in programme agreements and multi-party governments on a programme basis, which is why we are in favour of the electoral system that we have brought. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to the other parties in opposition. The Change Movement has confused us as neither a clear ideological stigma nor a clear strategy is reflected here in this bill. It therefore brought in 2015 a proposal for a law on simple analogues. In 2016, when we brought the same law, in an act of political altruism, he voted against and gave his seats to the New Democracy, while today that the mere analogy is abolished and we return back, he vote against again. So let us decide, gentlemen, of the Change Movement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President, and I'll be done. And with regard to the Greek Solution, today, in this bill, in any case, the masks fell. After you voted in favour of the development law that was full of rhetoric in parasiteism and dispersed workingly, after you voted in favour of the class partisan, tax bill, you are now returning to the 'right building'. With today's 'yes', Mr. Velopoulos gives the seats of his party to the New Democracy, since with simple analogy you will make more seats. The return will be seen in the future. So apologise to your MPs, Mr Velopoulou. In conclusion, we are voting against, knowing that the next elections - whenever they take place - will be in a mere proportional manner. And I believe that the progressive forces, with SYRIZA first party, will have to cooperate and give a government solution and will not have the political cost of joining a backward right. That's what New Democracy's afraid of. And we'll make sure we confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Kouvelas from New Democracy prepares Mr. Mulkiotis from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the government is bringing together a law that was one of its central political commitments, which was no more than a direct change in the electoral system, with four objectives: The first objective is to modernise electoral law. The second objective is the possibility of forming a government on the day after the elections. The third objective is to stimulate the credibility of the political system. Objective four, respect for the will of the majority of the Greek people. The Mitsotakis Government has introduced a political culture these months and our actions are witnessing it and not just the words. It appears from the fact that many important bills, which have come to plenary, but have been processed earlier in committees, have accepted many of the proposals and comments of the opposition parties. It is only in this way that parliamentarianism and the relationship of trust between the government, the other parties and ultimately the citizen can be established. Even in this draft law, where there seems to be structural differences in the perception, in the approach of electing MPs and governments in our country, it was accepted, discussed and introduced in the way that the government believes the step-by-step bonus in the first party. However,'red line' for the government was, is and will always be the possibility of post-election rulership. The Government of New Democracy submits the electoral law only six months after the last elections, with a clear period of three and a half years, so that there is no suspicion of party calculations and election purposes. In fact, some analysts estimate that by the law that is being introduced and passed today New Democracy will make its life difficult in the next elections. But that's not what it is to make our lives easy. On the contrary, our main objective, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is to achieve the possibility of ruling the place in the next election, contrary to what you pursued by imposing a mere analogy, which was to exclude the formation of self-government governments from now on, which would lead the country precisely into government. Can you imagine the House with a simple analogue, what political struggles for forming governments, what legislative resolutions and what management of public affairs would we have? The leaders of the parties that would participate in the government would meet constantly to share the rights in the exercise of power and we would have a Prime Minister to be just a balancer. The view was heard by colleagues from Officerial Representation that there is an urgent need for a culture of cooperation. This is, in fact, a dogmatic concept and, in any case, cannot be enforced by law. In the local government you did it, it turned out to be disastrous. The example of the Municipality of Thessaloniki is characteristic. The mayor has only seven advisors to forty-nine of the municipal council and has faced huge problems in forming an administration, which was the result of your mere analogy that has been applied. Fortunately, the situation has been saved in time by the legislative intervention of our Government. I would say that, on the one hand, that there has been a mere proportionalness in local government, because that is how we all realise that elections in this system would lead us to a complete dissolution of the political, social and economic system in our country. On the other hand, who tells us that co-operations always bring ideal or even satisfactory results, as you suddenly say? What else, new dogmatism is this, that the firm governments of a party in Greece have always failed historically, while coexistence has succeeded, and this model must always be followed from now on? I remind you of the most recent conflict, the one between SYRIZA and ANEL, which has completely failed, has disappointed the Greek people - so are colleagues - who gave a strong majority in New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. With your simple analogue it would be impossible to form a government of self-power, even with 48%, which would achieve the first party, that is, the party that each voted on in two Greeks. Do you mean this equality of vote in the end or do you want the minorities to rule? It is no accident, after all, that in European countries with a very deep democratic tradition and a lasting renewal of the ways in which their parliamentary systems operate, such as Germany and France, have seen and suffered, but as soon as they have done so, they have sent the simple, inappropriate and inappropriate analogy to the timeframe of history, by changing their electoral system. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have it, it seems, in your blood - your route is calling it so far - the mess, especially the political mess. That's what you're trying to do. Apart from that, you seek to be regulators on the day after your election. So you did not hesitate to undermine our democracy by imposing elections on a mere analogue basis before you left power. Therefore, the new electoral law on the one hand allows the country to be governed and, on the other, it is more representative, fairer and ensures greater proportionality for all parties, which are supported in relation to the previous electoral law, because, ultimately, it is representative of the electoral system which guarantees above all the ability of a country to govern, and respects precisely the mandate of the voters. That is the mandate, to have a government on the day following the elections. And, however, the stepping bonus of seats does not impose self-reliance, simply facilitates it, helps it. Instead, your simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, makes the formation of a government practically impossible and leads the country to paralysis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, you are protesting - and I am closing with that, Madam President, and I thank you for understanding - when we say, for the sake of briefness, that we will go into double elections next time. What's not understandable? The next elections will, in fact, take place on a mere analogous basis. We simply appreciate that they will not give government, and so in a month, as constitutionally predicted, we will again lead to elections with the electoral law which is now being passed, to have, as we hope, a self-government government. No more or nothing less. However, do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, that we are voting on electoral law today and not on the next government. All of us will be judged and it is the citizens who will finally decide who will govern them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and running, twenty students and students and an educational attendant from the 1st Primary School of Hymittos, as well as twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Municipal School of Tripoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for seven minutes now is Mr Mulkiotis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment. I see - although there are not many Members today from the majority following the election of a president - a manifest arrogant or even a majority in favour of it and, of course, after the election law and its vote, which is to take place today. But there's also a suffering nervousness on the part of the majority, and I don't know why. The next elections will certainly take place with the election system voted by the previous government. It is known that the Change Movement did not vote for the electoral law introduced by the previous government, and that because the division, which would bring about this electoral system, certainly leads to a failure to form a government and to phenomena that are not so coherent for the political system. Let me remind you, of course, that Mr Tsipras held the last elections with the Pavlopoulou Law and the well-known bonus to rule with the Independent Greeks. Now the New Democracy, in its proposal, without attempting any substantial dialogue, is aimed at restoring a system that favours artificial bipartisanism. This is another unconstitutional and anti-democratic option that not only gives way to consent, compositions and shocks with opposition parties, but hurts the authority of institutions by subjecting them to cynical and ruthless in obvious micro-party purposes. These purposes, which have not only been unequivocally confessed by the inadmissible New Democracy declaration that it will cause double elections to burn the simple analogue - Mr Couvelas has also suggested it - and by analogy, of course, a statement by SYRIZA in 2014 that he will not vote for the President of the Republic to provoke elections, are expected to be repeated, as has been leaked, in the field of the electoral system for the municipalities of something similar. It is clear that the New Democracy party has shown no interest in how much has changed in the political map for at least the last 10 years. It is incomprehensible not to take this data into account. In this spirit, therefore, the Change Movement has been tabling a comprehensive proposal for a new electoral law that implements the main objectives we have set. In our proposal we expressly state that we are in favour of a fairer and more proportional electoral system, where the election bonus will only be given if the first party exceeds 25% of the electorate. With the 25% rate, 20 bonus seats will be given from there and above, for each additional 1%, one seat will be assigned, with a maximum total bonus of thirty-five seats. With this proposal we recognise and respect the verdict of the Greek people when, in its vote, it expresses the desire to promote a party in self-government. Even the distinguished teachers of the Law recognize that only a substantial reduction in the maximum number of bonus seats, such as from fifty to thirty, can restore the constitutional balance between the principle of voting equivalence and the pursuit of government stability. Furthermore, this will reduce the parallel distortions of the electoral system at the level of the parliament's territorial representativeness, particularly in the quadruple and five-sided regions, from which, in particular, the seats used to cover the bonus come. Otherwise, governments of understanding and programming cooperation with broad parliamentary and popular acceptance should be set up, which the New Democracy seems to be abducting particularly, even at the expense of the constitutionality of the proposed law with the clear distinction between independent parties and coalitions with the essentially exclusion of the latter, namely coalitions, in terms of the award of the electoral bonus. It is clear, as the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Constantinople, said this morning, that such coalitions are the Change Movement, which came to the vote like this. I mean, how? PASOK, Movement of Democratic Socialists, EDMs, initiatives and collectiveities of the progressive space, officials of the Democratic Left, Renewal Left, Citizen Movements for Social Democracy. Not only must these movements be treated equally as autonomous parties, but they must be regarded as institutional, because they contribute, not only to the campaign, but also to the improvement of the quality and functioning of our political system. In particular, it should be stressed that they provide the possibility of long-term alliances between neighbouring political parties, in order to clearly form, in terms of principles and schedules, wider pluralistic towns in our political life, instead of the post-electionist turbulent partnerships, such as the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, to which the draft law is instigated. It is disastrous, ladies and gentlemen, that the government insists without consideration and without consideration on a post-war inspiration and constitutionally unacceptable regulation, which the Couvela law has rediscovered during the post-government period, and which has later returned with a small-scale method of amending Law No.3231/2004 the law in force until the last elections of the Pavlopoulou. Today's regulation is really a reproach for the country's political life. You need to think about her again. It is directly unconstitutional, strongly criticised by the whole constitutional theory, which pointed out the obvious: the scandalously favorable treatment of parties against coalitions grossly violates the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, unfortunately, the New Democracy is very much attempting to disorientate the social partners and the people by adopting architectural elements of our proposal for a step-by-step bonus but with two basic qualitative differences. It maintains a maximum bonus of fifty seats, instead of the thirty-five seats that we propose. It provides as a base bonus the twenty seats for anyone who raises 25% of the vote, but from there it gives an additional bonus seat for each additional 0.5% election rate, instead of the 1% we propose. The big difference in the result is that the New Democracy proposal leads to a self-powered government for any party that raises around 37% of the electoral system, while our proposal requires more than 40.5%, a significantly high proportion. In fact, if the sum of the percentages of parties that do not receive 3% for entry into Parliament is greater than today, the first party can achieve self-reliance by 36.5% of the votes. Such a percentage of a popular minority is not meant to lead to a government and a government majority. Ladies and gentlemen, in bringing this proposal and in faithfully following the conservative logic of false self-reliance and artificial bipartism, it turns out what the Change Movement says, that the New Democracy and SYRIZA are the two sides of the same currency, which are intended to support polarisation that divides the people. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that Mr Mitsotakis, like Mr Tsipras, is trying to impose such a system. They do not care that in this way the country is driven into weak self-reliable governments, which are unable to move forward with the changes that the country needs today and simply reproduce the deadlocks. Such a proposal, the Change Movement, can only vote against it. In conclusion, I would like to say that if you look back into history and measure the electoral systems from 1926 to 1990, you will find that the average is disappointing. We have changed fourteen electoral systems, which corresponds to one electoral law by one and a half elections. This is an unprecedented event, an unprecedented percentage, which reflects not only the troubled Greek political life but also the elaboration of the electoral law by the respective authority. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are yet another government of this kind, which is indifferent to the most basic component of the elections: that citizens vote first of all to create a government that will take them out of the deadlock. Fortunately, however, in democracy, every time, citizens have the knowledge and the way to cancel these intergovernmental scenarios, as much as they attempt to divide and blackmail their vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-three students and students and an attendant of the 2nd Municipal School of Papagos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papaliou has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal for a strengthened electoral system with a prioritisation of seats aims to unblock power on the part of the New Democracy by abolishing the mere analogous and thus not reflecting the popular will and the real relations of the electorate in this House, in the name of so-called rulership. The principles of proportionality and the equivalence of votes are thus not served. The New Democracy's argument that the abolition of the mere actuarial analogy is a deterrent to the fragmentation of the political forces, which leads to paralytic situations, impoverishment and non-formation of strong stable governments, according to its perception of them. Powerful stable governments are not by definition the governments of an absolute parliamentary majority of a party. Political and government stability is not a matter of institutional stability, but of political will, political positions and planning convergences. In fact, governments with an absolute majority of a party's parliamentary majority led the country to bankruptcy. Furthermore, the formation of stable mono-party governments cannot be an end in itself, since in democracy the people's will is the source of the exercise of power, which sets out its own propositions and priorities. In democracies, therefore, the popular will must not be manipulated by the electoral system, and this must not shape but reflect the correlations of forces. The formation of connections through the electoral system runs counter to the principle of popular sovereignty, alters the election results and then the popular will, operating positively. Ladies and gentlemen, the simple analogue is a profoundly political element, with multiple dimensions - functions: democratic, since it reflects the genuine, true will of the electorate, thus responding to the principle of popular sovereignty. The latter, as a constitutionally regulated authority, operates as a project, a message of respect for the popular will, which is how it is implemented in the field of political practice. The institutional issue, since the vote is confirmed by its inception, without thereby adversely affecting the citizens' vote. The Constitution, since simple analogues are linked to the basic philosophy of the principle of equality, whose equivalence and equivalence of vote are its expressions. They have the effect of matching the popular will with representation in Parliament. Finally, education, since through it and as a result of equal participation in political matters, political parties and citizens are being disciplined in the field of democracy. In the context of democracy, equal conditions and in this context the rate of vote is a precondition for this. In recent years the domination of neoliberalism and hence the imposition of the economy on policy have led to citizens being abducted from the public, due to their substantial exclusion from them. Citizens dominate the sense, but it is also a reality, that they are not heard, and most of all, they are not heard. This led SYRIZA to conduct institutional areas towards restoring citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and participation in the commons. The simple analogue system strengthens democracy and promotes governments based on the social majority. In this context, the vote in the seventeen and the partitioning of the major elections was also institutionalised. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, degrade the will of the people. You consider that the people cannot elect a strong, not necessarily a parliamentary majority of the one-party government and you are discrediting the capacity to cooperate with the political forces of the country. The New Democracy considers the state of a party loot that wins it itself, receiving the gift of the additional fifty seats. After all, by cultivating the fear of insolence and double elections, the government deceives the electoral process and offends the Greek people. In its logic and arguments, the New Democracy insists on bypassing the next elections to be held with the system of simple proportional. This ignorance and constant reference to the second elections to be held in order to burn the simple analogue affronts the electorate. The burning of simple proportional, through double elections, as the Prime Minister himself and the officials of the New Democracy threatens, is an insult to the electorate, the citizens and the people. The people do not vote and will not vote to burn the simple analogue but to form a government. Let us be sure, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the next elections will result with the will of the people of a progressive majority, which will also be a government of a majority. Let us be sure that by attempting to "burn" the simple analogue, "you will go for wool and go out ragged." "You will fall into the pit" that you dig for your political opponents. "The simple analogue, "you will burn" will not burn the New Democracy and the few who protect it and support it. The government of the social minority of the few "will burn" and you of the New Democracy will find yourself out of the "government bride". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u49	The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that the participation of the JRC in the debate on electoral law is based on positions of principle which the Communist Party of Greece does not haggle or haggle and sew them according to every political juncture. Our permanent position is the simple and unadulterated analogy, because it is the only electoral system that can reflect the popular will, at least as it is recorded in the elections. Because, in reality, the popular will is not genuinely reflected in elections for the urban parliament, since it passes through the affiliations of a system that is uniquely caring for it is to ensure, both openly and with disguised beggars, its anti-grass. We have said, and today we will repeat that simple and unadulterated proportion is incompatible with the existence of any type of bonus, which the New Democracy Government is reinstated today, but also with the existence of a wall of entry in Parliament, which is now 3% and for which no party is speaking, except for the JRC. In fact, we have tabled this proposal for the electoral law and in the context of the Constitutional Review, which has been rejected. It was rejected by both the New Democracy and the KINAL, which are firmly defending such splendid electoral systems, but it was rejected by SYRIZA, which had made its flag in previous years a mere analogue. Except that it is simply proportional to an entry wall in the parliament that was in the law that SYRIZA finally brought as a government, it is not a real analogue, it is a trick. In order not to remind you, dear friends of SYRIZA, your proposal in the context of the Constitutional Review, which provided for the possibility of a bonus, after making up 10% deviation in the distribution of seats to the parties from their election results. From a position of principle, therefore, the JRC is voting against, but also denounces the efforts of the New Democracy Government to restore the bonus, and even through the blackmailing of the double elections in the name of supposedly some stability, that is, the old and the triumphed ones. All New Democracy wants to ensure is the further distortion of popular will. What you, of course, were saying, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, about the equivalence of vote, when we were discussing in this House the vote on the motions for resolutions, is that you have left them behind, because today your main objective is the so-called rulership, namely to secure your own anti-popular government stability, which, for the people, means only greater instability and insecurity. But also the defence of democracy that all of you are reminiscent of, is proof of the scale of hypocrisy. Because at the same time that you are bringing to the vote another kind of cowardice system, from which another minority government will emerge, given not only the percentage of the people's participation in the elections but also the percentage that is ultimately required for the formation of the government, you have the courage to move the finger on the workers, demanding the exact opposite of their own procedures in the framework of the trade union movement. It is necessary, for example, that, in order for a union to decide on a strike, it should take part in a general assembly of 50% plus 1 of all workers, and even under the conditions of the well-known employer terrorism. This was provided for in the SYRIZA Anti-Fraud Law, which, of course, you have gladly maintained, extended it further as a New Democracy. Your democracy is cut and stitched to the measures of this exploitive system that you are all defending. Because when workers try, in difficult circumstances, to defend their rights, to organise, for example, a mobilisation, a strike, then the majorities resulting from a reduced vote are bad. You consider them as a factor of instability and anomaly. But when anti-grass governments, like yours, are to be elected, then these majorities arising from minorities are actually taking part in elections and with a confusing electoral system, as magically turn into a factor of stability and normality. "Ours, ours and yours again." All the mockery at the altar of this corrupt and rotten system you are serving and for the stability of the injustice of which you are all looking after alternately. Of course, our position on the simple analogue in no way means that we are cultivating delusionally to the Greek people, that a proportional electoral system in itself can give solutions to the acute problems or lead to the expression of genuinely - and not the words - of philosophical governments. After all, there is rich Greek, European and international experience that also through systems of mere analogy can emerge as well as reactionary and anti-popular governments. This is the essence, the reality, not of course, of the inappropriate and unscrupulous that we heard last night in this Chamber on the part of the New Democracy, apart from the fact that the position which a party can have for a more proportional electoral system does not automatically make this de facto progressive when it considers this analogous system through the formation of a co-operation government to implement it in the course of anti-popular policies, of course, in the context of the exploitation of the urban system. It's with you who really lose their meaning. Progressively you are now baptizing what the system of exploitation, the oppression of workers is, and with this you too are playing the Government of New Democracy and the Civic Anti-Policy of the SYRIZA which monopolizes its progressiveness in words, acting reactively right-wing anti-linguistic when it implements its policy in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's proposal on the electoral system is to replace the SYRIZA electoral law. But their differences cannot hide the fact that there is a fundamental one from now on: you both think that the electoral system should serve as effectively as government and political stability so that measures and policies which are in need of great capital can continue inevitably and with the greatest possible consensus. SYRIZA's gentlemen face electoral law as a catalyst for co-operation governments. They consider that, in this way, the responsibility for the address and exercise of anti-population policy can also be spread to more parties. They also consider that in the political scene there are potential more allies located in the area in general of social democracy, both old and newly built and mainly directed, throwing nets, of course, hoping to fish beyond that and not just to their left. After all, in the very recent past, SYRIZA's gentlemen even colluded with extreme right forces, such as the ANAL party. On the other hand, of course, the question arises: Do you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have a different view for the purposes to be served by electoral law? Of course not. Your poorness - like SYRIZA -, the notorious political stability, is captured on the other side of the same anti-popular currency. The JRC is voting against, denounced and standing against the efforts of the New Democracy Government to restore the bonus and even through the blackmail of the double elections, since the next elections will be held with the old electoral law. You're blackmailing that you won't hold a government, even if you can with another party, just to repeat the elections within twenty days with your own more confusing electoral law. Of course, with this blackmail of the double elections that have been moving in the last few months, in the name of having been able to avoid adventures and others, all you can do is give SYRIZA a political leap in order to raise the polluter lines again, with the government of cooperation between democratic and progressive forces, thinking that some will again pinch the bait and so better play your bipartite game, what the place has known and paid dearly for over 40 years now. "What you had, Yannis, what I've always had." Only our people lived through SYRIZA's co-operation governments. His antimonetary rule with ANEL proved to be the most commemorative of all. And leave these dangers, insolence and so forth, because you know very well that in the event of government failure, there are no dead ends, just because there is the ground to form such a co-operation government. It is the strategic conclusion of specific political parties, which in 2015, under political instability and need, enabled you to vote together, SYRIZA, New Democracy, KINAL, the third memorandum. But now you agree, for example on central issues such as Greece's involvement in US and NATO planning, as the agreement with the US, prepared by SYRIZA, and now plays difficult, asks for its freeze - says -, an agreement that New Democracy is about to ratify next week. So many years you tell the Greek people that if our country is a good boy for the Americans, for NATO, then it will protect its sovereign rights from Turkey's aggression. But now that the Greek Government has taken another step further, stating willingness to send troops and missile arrays to Saudi Arabia and Libya, also by attacking the Straits of Ormuz, vertically raising the risks to the children of the Greek people. But what does SYRIZA say? It simply calls for an umbrella for the legitimisation of the mission, European or international, and not only on these issues but on many others. You agree with the implementation, at all costs, of the European Union's policy. You drink water in the name of capitalist development, which means defending the interests of the few in big capital, at the expense of the rights of many, the workers, the Greek people. Proof is the anti-popular laws before SYRIZA, which are currently maintained and extended by the New Democracy. See what happens with employment rights, insurance, auctions, degradation, privatisation, marketing of education, health. The New Democracy has maintained and strengthened all these laws of SYRIZA. It went one step further in the strike at the trade unions. The New Democracy is coming to implement rather than annul the law, for example, Katrugalou, the law laundering of the SYRIZA government. In other words, it seeks to complete the crime in social security, because the government plan is a comprehensive plan to privatise insurance, so that social security from a social right can be converted into an investment and an individual risk. Any differences in your policy simply confirm the rules of the urban political system that today, with the double New Democracy - SYRIZA, seek to encapsulate popular discontent. And if there is a need in the future, there can also be a new Republic - SYRIZA - as much as you do today. And especially those who scorn this possibility, we urge them to revert to the spells of the past, when the New Democracy's chance of colluding with PASOK, the then PASOK, not in the current form of SYRIZA or KINAL was at hand. And the devil came and made them tiles and colluded and voted together with anti-grass laws, again for our good, for everyone's good, and for the job to go cloud. But at least leave it out of this Chamber, as well as the electoral law that New Democracy brings today, it refers more to major coalition scenarios, because a party with 25% or 30% that will get a bonus of twenty or thirty seats, objectively only with another big party can collide. That's where you're taking it. One works for the other, the New Democracy for SYRIZA and SYRIZA for the New Democracy and of course you would like "tooth" and "KINAAL, as well as every Varoufakis or every Velopoulou, after all, these stars, like others before those who sit for a while in these parliamentary seats. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece with stability and consistency defends its position for simple and unadulterated proportions. At the same time, however, we want our people to realise that whatever system it is, the governments that will come about, cooperation or not, will implement policies and measures at their expense. And when he raises his head, he will be told from above that he voted for them and that they are supposed to express the majority in total. The key to the people is not in the electoral system, and therefore in the polls and in the government's, of course, rotation of the same cutting of government managers of anti-French politics, regardless of whether this will be about one, two or more parties. The key lies in the organization and escalation of the struggle of the people themselves. It is in the breaking of fear, fatalism, the logic of reduced demands. It is at the most coveted passage of our people to the forefront and with a strongening everywhere of the Communist Party of Greece. This is the only hopeful message on which the Greek people can touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Monday, 27 January 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The question under number 397/20-1-2020 is a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Several reactions of Greek creators for the policy of copyright of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 400/21-1-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the developments surrounding copyright of composers and stigmatists." 3. The Question No 384/15-1-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Southern Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafa to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Urgent resolution of problems in the process of appointments". B. MAIN QUESTIONS Second Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure).). 1. The Question No 405/21-1-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Resolution of the building problem of the schools affected by the July earthquake in Aigaleo and Petroupolis". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 1127/7-10-2019 by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Vassilis Kossilis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Evaluation of the "Average" Agricultural School of Larissa". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and three teachers attending the 4th Korydalou High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed as follows: Mr Muszalas for objective reasons that are currently outside Ethiopia. In turn, Mr. Snowides, Mr. Kastanides, Mr. Santorinios, Mr. Psychogios and then Mr. Scandalidis will speak as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Mr. Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all opinions have been heard and analysed in depth and in a very concrete and detailed manner all versions and expressions of this draft law have been heard and analysed. I would like to stick to things that are heard in this Chamber in their political dimension. We're talking about a simple analogue. Today I heard Mr Vitsa, who said: 'When in a system you take one of the parameters or add one parameter, it is not the same system'. So he talked about a simple analogue which sounds good in the ears all years, because behind it it is accompanied by the adjectives "unfair" and "adult", which sound good in the ears. It is a simple and unadulterated analogue that the Communist Party of Greece has tabled. Everything else is not simple and unadulterated. It's a reinforced analogue. Will anyone tell me: quite reinforced or less? However, it's not just analogous. So let's not hide behind our finger. We are all talking about an enhanced analogue, more and less. It was also heard that if it should be thirty or thirty - five. This proposal was very specific for practicability. Good. In other words, someone who has 45% only has the right to have a hundred and fifty Members, that is to say a majority in which we agree on a reinforced proportion, which is precisely to the limit, whether it is withstand or not the government. I therefore believe that it is in the right direction to have this law which elects the previous Pavlopoulou law and which they have commanded not necessarily as one-party government, the SYRIZA and ANEL government. So who is certain, and why is this trend on the part of the Opposition? Is it now so sure that the New Democracy will have over 45% or over 40%? This is reflected in all the anxiety we see. From there on, the New Democracy is fully committed to electoral commitments and this is a factor of stability. It is a factor of stability and a prospect of stability. We have the European Parliament, we have the Commissioners, they have the same beginning. We have a strong government. We have closed the matter of the Presidency of the Republic. And here it is time to show that through this law we are going to vote, clearly and clearly, there will be a prospect of stability. This sounds very well to both the Greek and the Greek averages who from the outside want to invest, because it is the stability of the political environment that gives growth prospects, together with all the measures that have been adopted - development laws, tax laws, tomorrow the insurance - so that we have a stable framework. So these are the basic principles, and that's why the law is coming now. So the usual thing was to get the governments to change. It was heard before that every one and a half of us had a change of electoral law. Indeed, it is. The issue is that this government is tabling three and a half years before the next elections a law so that the parties that exist or the parties that are likely to be created - because in politics everything is possible - is life itself - are prepared and aware of which law elections will be held. On the other hand, different thoughts are heard that you know, if elections ever occur, because the Prime Minister has probably proposed that there be double elections to create a strong government, that scenarios are heard, and some are very happy when they say so discreetly, that there can be a co-operation between groups in this House, which has two hundred votes, to become a government with the sole aim of changing the electoral law with two hundred votes. This is how some people imagine, but that is not the use of electoral law and margins to create an anomaly. If that is not the case, let there be a public and responsible statement that there are no such thoughts or such meetings that they see on tomorrow's simple analogue day. I also want to talk about whether there really is a national consensus or whether there should be a national consensus on all these issues, otherwise they would not have any role and planning positions of the parties. I cannot say that I ask for the SYRIZA or the Communist Party to vote for this particular law, because their positions are different. However, these were also rejected, the debate being held here is that if they really are in line with the election forecasts and what New Democracy has committed itself to, if that is consistent. It is clear and obvious that it is consistent with what has been committed and what is the whole background in order to have political stability and to have growth and prosperity over and above. So we cannot have a national consensus. To have foreign policy issues, I understand that. To have on the issues, as was done very well, with the Greeks, who live abroad, we understand that. However, we cannot, in programming positions, say that there must be consensus. If there is, it's welcome. However, this has been identified. One cannot move from the positions for which one was voted with 30% or 40% in elections six months ago. In this sense, the New Democracy continues to observe what was voted for by the majority of the Greek people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll finish in two seconds, Mr. President. So I think there will be stability, because we see that we are creating all that political framework, along with what has been voted on and what is coming, so that there will be stability and confidence first of the Greeks and then of the whole planet towards the Greek economy, towards Greek prospects, to Greek development. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u53	We move on with Mr. Castanides from the Change Movement, and then the President, Mr. Voutsis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u54	Sometime. Let's speed up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u55	All right, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, on a very specific subject I have been hearing for many hours in general and abstract arguments in favour or against the electoral system proposed by the government. I am not going to talk to you equipped with the party line, because my political path and experience require me to defend some useful principles of the place. There are three types of electoral systems in place in Europe, as in the rest of the world: majority voting systems, proportional electoral systems and mixed electoral systems. All three systems account for different political stories of countries and different political cultures and, therefore, it is very difficult to reach a safe conclusion which of the three types of election system has comparative advantages. I am one of those who defend mixed electoral systems, which attempt to harmonise two principles in principle contrary to each other, the principle of proportionality and the principle of governance. A hard effort is needed to ensure the best possible equilibrium between proportionality and governance. This balance is not served by the government's electoral system. On 8 January 2020, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted the report by Belgian racist Hendrick Daems, entitled 'Subject to conditions for election systems serving free and fair elections'. This January 2020 report confirms the criteria set out in its code in 2002 by the Venice Commission. The author of the report argues that successful electoral systems are based on two fundamental conditions: the stability of the electoral system chosen and the length of time during its implementation and the selection of electoral law through broad consultation and consensus. Unfortunately, neither of the two primary requirements of a successful electoral system have been observed in our country since the first free elections in 1843, until today. Election systems changed and changed at a rapid pace, depending on party and political aspirations and in a climate of intense party conflicts and great political passions. Nearly an overrun, I could say that the electoral systems are almost close to the number of elections. But these phenomena have harmed the electoral and political history of the country, misled the people's mandate several times and affected our democracy. We also seem to have learned absolutely nothing from our political history. We are missing another opportunity for all the political forces, under the responsibility of the proposed government today, to consult and consent to an electoral system which, because of its consent, will have a long time to do so. This is another missed opportunity, then. The negative phenomena, which I described just before, are due to all the government orders of all shades to date, even to the party to which I belong. You realize I'm not talking to you with any party targeting, but I insist that I adopt useful principles for the place. The electoral system proposed by the government fully infringes the principle of proportionality. In order to avoid any doubt and to be specific, I will give two examples: if an election coalition gathers 45% of the votes of the Greek people, it does not take any part of the bonus of the seats. If the second independent party gathers 30% of the Greek people's votes, it takes thirty bonus seats, with the result that the people's mandate is erroneous, without the election coalition that recorded 45%. In the same report of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, it is noted that when a mixed electoral system is attempting, in defence of the principle of governance, to strengthen the parliamentary majority of the winner of the elections, this should not be disproportionate to the actual support among the electors. Not only is this principle of the Venice Commission and Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe served here, but the government with the electoral system has severely affected the principle of proportionality between a parliamentary majority and support for voters. I give another example: if the first party gets 41% and the second party gets 40.5%, the first party receives fifty bonus seats and the second party, with half unit difference, receives zero bonus seats. That's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u57	Didn't you suggest them before?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u58	Don't hold a dialogue so that Mr. Kastanides can come to an end. We're in the seventy-third speaker and we have a hundred twenty. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u59	The difference between us is that I courageously tell you what the mistake of our resignation is, and other factions. But you can't do that. That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u60	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u61	What for? There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Castanides, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u63	What would, in my view - and I would say, Mr President - constitute a mixed electoral system which balances between the principle of proportionality and the principle of governance? First, the bonus must never exceed thirty seats. Secondly, you must start stepping up to allocate the thirty-seat bonus when it gathers - and is the winner of the elections - the first party or the election formation, if it is a coalition, a strong basis, namely at least 30%. Thirdly, the difference between the first and the second parties should be taken into account, a difference which, as a minimum - in my view - should be about 3%. Because if the electoral system, introduced, were to be implemented in the 2000 elections, the first party on 9 at night, which was the final winner - that is, my party - would take fifty bonus seats and the second party - which was your party - with 1% back, would take zero seats. With these three principles, in my view, we could form a more comprehensive electoral system. I am sorry to say this once again: we are losing another historic opportunity! Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u64	We too, Mr. Castanides. We're moving on with Mr. Nektario Santorinio from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have experienced a theater of irrationality. We are listening to the New Democracy Members and the government defending a law with a clear positive orientation and at the same time professing democracy and the defence of the people's interests. Truly, how much longer should your law alter the popular will to realize that you are reintroducing a system that steals the vote of Greek citizens and gives it to the first party without their will? Is it really for you that it is pluralism to deny from small parties their electoral power to give it to the first party? We hear, of course, constantly that we have a hypocritical attitude, because we ruled using the bonus, which the electoral law gave us. But you hide two truths: The law by which the elections in January 2015 took place, we did not choose him, it was your law. How can we ask for the bonus not to apply? Was there any provision in the law that would give us that possibility? No, obviously not. The second truth you hide is that you tell us that we had the opportunity to change the law between January and September 2015. Really. However, what political association of forces in Parliament would bring the required majority of the two hundred MPs, so that the law will apply in September 2015? No one's the answer. So, then the bonus elections would have been and all that would have changed is that today you would be fifty fewer, because the law would have been in force in the July election campaign. So you lie in your knowledge to blur the landscape and support an obvious anti-democratic choice: the reintroduction of the enhanced analogy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the House from yesterday have been constantly talking about the attempt made by this law not to fall into the nets of intergovernmentalism, in the vicious circle of the co-operation governments, about chaos, about resentment, about terror, they say, even that Hitler has risen to power, because of the mere analogy and that the civil wars have been made because of the mere analogy. In essence, however, those who have participated in a co-operation government to bring the second memorandum, all they are trying to defend is the fingerprint left by the sterile, hard-core partition in the country for the last 40 years: client state, conflict, corruption, armies of 'blue' and 'green' children in public administration, hugging with economic interests, sea-loving - which you do not explain to us what you are doing with them - 'NOVARTIS', CEDEFOPNO, 'SIEMENS'. One-party strong governments have had all this time, and growth fell, the stockup bubble grew, the spread of public resources continued. It was the one-party governments that led us to the crisis and they were not the ones that pulled us out of the crisis. One co-operation government, the SYRIZA-ANEL-Ecologue cooperation government, was the one who got us out of the memorials. Remember that! The cyberdynamicity you invoke is the revival of all the morbid symptoms that have kneeled the country and the people and which have weakened democracy. And while many of you, consistent with your ideas, are against equitable vote, there are some of you who, for the chairs, are folding faster than the speed of light. Why, when the Pavlopoulou Act was adopted in 2008, which, as a member of LAOS, said that the bonus corresponds to the theft of victory, that we must have multi-party governments, that the New Democracy is doing everything for the stay in power? That's what Mr. Georgiadis said. In fact, he said it was not a democracy to rule 38% or 39%. Predictative of 39%, Mr. Georgiadis. Here is our great ideological difference, ladies and gentlemen. We, unlike New Democracy and the Change Movement, after seven electoral laws, which you cut and sewed in your measures, were the first government to try to ensure the legislative and constitutional preservation of mere analogy. In defending the essence of democracy itself, we envision a country where the parties will list programmes, the people will vote for positions and principles and each vote will be equal. The initiatives we have taken relate to any democratic citizen who wants a governance not of strong interests, but of programming synergy and cooperation. A consistent demand from the Left and all the progressive world, calling for the same post-population, today you are abolishing it, with a view to your political survival. There is a lot that separates us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Basically, however, we are divided by an abyss in how we understand the principle of popular sovereignty. If today we are attempting to restore another thorny electoral system to protect the achievements of inter-corruption, corruption and philosophical rule, do not be sure that the people will again forgive you. Playing the fire game with the election law, first you are in danger of burning. The next elections - you want, you do not want - will take place with a mere analogue for the first time after 1974 and the result, as much as a parrot of interacting and corruption and throwing into the arena, you have not guaranteed it. The people can judge who really defends their interests and understand the lies you have made in election to come back to power. In the next elections, whenever they take place, one thing is certain: you will be much less!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u66	We proceed with Mr. Psychogios, a colleague from SYRIZA, and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalidis, will be given the floor. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, voting on this electoral law is a serious setback on the country's political system and violates the democratic principle of equality of citizens' vote, contrary to what is happening in the majority of European states centrally, but also locally in the majority of them for local government. So, here, unfortunately, it's a big step back. Election law sets out the system by which the Greek people are represented and with your plan this political mandate is distorted, because the vote of citizens is not regarded as equal. We have seen your study of the equivalence of vote among Greeks abroad. We don't see the same study here. There is a huge hypocrisy in this matter. It was also voted in favour of the improvements made, but you were in favour of the exchange rate then and not now. Two metres and two weights, depending on what is of interest. You started with the actual abolition of the mere analogous to the local government elections and continue with the national elections. You have not taken into account the reactions, including your own mayors and officials in self-government, which have been expressed politically, but also local presidents and healthy forces, who have been able to express themselves through this system to suspend it. Before even applying, you torpedoed this simple analogue to self-government, which gave breath to all these healthy powers. Once again, you are ideologically obsessed with the false argument of government stability. I repeat the view of the majority of European states. But I also make this point: why do you despise the Greek people and think it goes without saying that there can be no consensus and cooperation in Greece for some strange reason - and I do not know who - perhaps cultural or political - can be. We also need to align ourselves with those of the most modern practices that exist in Europe. We can do this because the Greek society is completely mature. Even with the simple analogue if the people want it, they can even give self-reliance to a government. But with the systems that have so far been implemented and the one-party and almighty governments that have been elected, we have, in fact, led to the crisis. The client state, rousfetti, to the "lefties", the conflict with the great interests, the undiminished waste of resources and capabilities came from such governments, powerful. These old recipes, which were made just to serve a political game structured, with the aim of self-reliance, are facilitated by this electoral law. One will say that there have also been cooperation governments since 2012. Indeed, they did. But that is what the simple analogue comes to cure: that the governments that have been in existence have been problematic from the point of view of ideological and programming convergence so far. And 2012 and 2015. That is what the simple analogue is all about, so that there can be programme convergences and serious cooperation governments. I should also like to point out - I have heard from the Secretary-General - that the problem of the crisis and the memoirs is not the electoral system, but the political system. Obviously! This is probably about your self-criticism. Because even if we accept that the electoral system, which is crucial to us for the governments and the participation of society, has emerged from the political system and from the governments that have passed, obviously we agree. However, this does not mean that the electoral system is not important. Unless you are aware that an electoral system must be beyond and above society and be a parallel reality. The concept of popular sovereignty, which is the mirror of our society, is therefore served by a mere analogue. It is the left, hegemony in society, and that is why you must be placed on this. Leave the lame arguments or when it came and how it came. Place on this. The simple analogue came to stay. The Greek society is mature to accept it. Of course, we see in other countries - like Portugal - coalition governments progressively, which show both the way and the rest of Europe, in Spain and in other cases. Therefore, you should take a position on this. You are, however, blocking the pre-election coalitions from access to the bonus, since it is conditional on its granting the average power of the cooperating parties being greater than the election force of the self-individual party, which has raised the largest number of votes, which is incomprehensible and politically and constitutionally. Remove the simple analogue before even applying and promote your perception as a self-proof principle and as a basis. You present the return to the enhanced analogue as a defeat of SYRIZA. You do not understand, however, that this is a defeat of the political system, as moves like this act inhibit the confidence of society. I would also like to make a comment on this, which has been heard by the Greek Parliamentary Representative. Mr Colleagues, we agree that the Greek society does not have the confidence that must be given in politics and participation in it. How, however, can we cultivate it when we do not vote for the simple analogue when we do not give the institutions, Parliament and society the opportunity to express themselves and bring all these procedures to life? Unfortunately, this is not the case. The political system can only be renewed in this way, and it may have been our last chance. As a New Democracy, you are insisting on plastic self-responsibility and you have allergy to creative dialogue. You fear him in creative dialogue, which can arise from cooperation governments. You have intolerance to the notion of synthesis, you like factorism and awarding, and you want it to be maintained and you have unfortunately not learned any of the mistakes of the past. You remain in the arrogance of a period that has passed unreturned. But you must know this: Whatever you do institutional, working, politically to ensure that the Left is supposed to not regain power, it is not going to have any effect. Society will answer you. The Left will win and transform the country, its institutions and its structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Kastanidis has a real reason to mention these issues more widely, I have a multiplier, I would say, because all that we are discussing now has to do with my own, essentially, a route, but also with my general involvement with the institutions in the process of the whole post-government period in the country. For the electoral law, as we are used to in the national Parliament - I take on the occasion of yesterday's truly inconceivable confrontation that I heard this evening and did not take the floor, because I could not take the floor on this issue - the debate takes the face-to-face nature between political forces. We insist that we use the law as a tool, which will guide future political developments and contribute to achieving short-term objectives and not as a set of rules governing the functioning of democracy on a long-term and stable basis, rules agreed by the maximum possible majority, so that they also have the time and historical resistance required. The short-sighted logic that connects party strategies only to short-term political goals has cost a lot, as the political system is unable to overcome the sufferings, which it gave birth to and open a really new page along the path of the Hellenic Republic. I talked about yesterday's confrontation, which involved historical events, definitively and indelibly, with tactics concerning electoral systems. The reference to pre-war or post-war conditions and their tax-free and simple reading, I do not think it contributes and, most importantly, I do not think it can be copied by neglecting history. Let us not scaffold the wounds of the election processes, I would even say the pre-declarational cycle and how they affected political developments, to remind the election systems of '56, '58, '61. The story is written in indelible letters. It is not re-written and it is not falsified. It is good to think a little about the post-government events and that course, in order to make the elementary self-criticism required by the circumstances. From the beginning of post-multiplier, electoral laws have been chosen on the basis of the electoral plans of the parties, which exercise power. It is not wrong to admit what 17% of the second division meant and the asymmetrical distribution of the seats of the '74-77' coke law. It is not unreasonable to admit that the '89 Act, which was one of the most proportionate in history, stubbornly prevented the first party from forming a self-powered government. Mr. Mitsotakis has arrived to get 47%, so he can have a hundred fifty MPs. It is not wrong to admit that the '91 Act', which only removed seats from the second party, came as an answer to the previous law and prevented any electoral partnership from taking this unacceptable provision for the first time, that the coalition of forces cannot take the bonus under any circumstances. Because that means the average of the coalition parties. However, in 2001 and 2003-2004 a section was attempted. The cut was, firstly, at constitutional level, when it removed on our own initiative the possibility of each government voting for the law of the next elections, if it has no broad consensus - the cut that has to be accepted by the national Parliament - and secondly, the law that, even before the mere analogue, was essentially the one that we created in 2003, was the law with which, for the first time, a party that was losing the government, ensured government stability, giving the bonus to the first party to form a government. It was a overturn in the data of the political system. Of course, I have to make a note here to remind the oldest of us that at the time there was a wider debate. It was a variation of the German system which was discussed in detail - there were analyses and positions - and it concerned the oligostrial regions. A second alternative to the German was the MEP and the Member of the county, the narrow electoral district. It was even the double ballot, another party, another MP. It was finally the thirty bonus seats and not the forty that eventually passed through the then Ministerial Council, which gave more than 97% proportionality. I must also admit that some of us were etherists. We thought that this could happen at some point and many of the parties - I can tell you certain members, even under the current Prime Minister - at times have agreed that a wider change in the political system is needed, not in the electoral law, but in the electoral process itself, to restore the political system from many decades' work. We have not dared, and this is a defeat of the political system, because today we would speak in a different way from the one we are talking about. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, this: since the Government has accepted our proposal for a step-by-step bonus, many of our colleagues from New Democracy have said so, and it is true that from 35% down to 35% the treaty of self-reliability in the bonus system is difficult - why do we vote against the draft law of the government? So that is for two very specific reasons. The first reason is for unacceptable and incomprehensible for modern democracy, a ban on the possibility of election partnerships. You cannot speak of wider consensus, you cannot say for years that you have been against self-government, because national circumstances, the crisis today requires understanding and - why not? - program convergences from across the border and not from ideologically opposite, as happened at times, you cannot talk about this need and, at the same time, exclude from parties, who can agree on an election program, in a government program, to appear before the Greek people and ask for their vote, to implement this programme and when they become the first force, to come the second party and take the government of the country. This is a trick for democracy. We abolished it in 2003. But the New Democracy Government came with Mr. Paulopoulos and brought it back. Now the New Democracy Government brings it back to the new proposal. The second reason is the substantial violation of the potential majority criterion, which sets the limit of self-resistance, substantially below 37%. Illegality cannot continue with the 50 seats which enables a little more than 1/3 of the electorate - which is, in fact, 20% of the actual electorate, if you put the game and the abstention - to elect a one-party government. The thirty or thirty-five seats bonus, on the other hand, raises the self-resistance threshold by over 40% -41%, and that is very important, because it is always in the logic of a government that can be made when there is a potential majority current and when it cannot, it may simply need a small party, which can be completely opposite ideologically, to "beg" a government. That is why we need to strengthen the analogy, but in a way that does not effectively destroy the democratic process. Before I close, I would like to say a few words about the electoral systems. Mr. Castanides said so, and I agree with that. I want to say something, especially for the simple analogue. There is no simple and inappropriate analogous system. Simple and inappropriate could exist theoretically, if 3% were abolished, Greece became a single region, all Members of Parliament shared from the outset normally and then an arbitrary distribution in the prefectures. But that cannot be done in our current system, because local representation is actually being abolished. Why is English, for example, considered a majority system? Because it only has one-sided regions, a party can get 25% and make 70% of the seats. It's actually overthrowing the show. The 1958 Karamanlis triophageal system was a barbarian majority system. All existing systems are therefore reinforced proportionally or mixed. In this enhanced analogue, therefore, this process of governance and proportionality must not escape a golden rule, which is the rule of non-infringement of popular sovereignty, but also the possibility of real government in the country, provided that there are potential major currents. Otherwise, to strengthen cooperation and pre-election and post-election partnership procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is the gold incision that governs our proposal. It is not the broad change that I imagine, I vision and want for the political system in the country. At the current juncture, however, it is the best possible. And I think the proposal by Mrs Fofi Gennimata and the Change Movement is the best that combines this particular balance in the present circumstances. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] As long as, ladies and gentlemen, the game of democracy is played in terms of short-term, temporary electoral targets, as long as the country's political life is exhausted, not in a creative confrontation and composition, wherever possible, but in a lasting frontal confrontation and polarization to non-hearing parties and parties that dare not dare, the country has no luck. We, despite the conditions that exist today, will remain consistent with the strategy that unites the Greeks and enables the political system to enter a new era.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u70	Good. Did you see the old man is different? Mr. Scandalides spoke for twelve minutes and a second. The next five days are Mrs. Skondra, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, Mr. Manolakos, Mr. Vasiliadis, Mr. Davakis. Immediately after - sixth - Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou. If Mrs. Gennamas doesn't come in, she's this particular host. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral system is the institutional legal mechanism of the state, which determines the conversion of the popular will into elected representatives who make up this House and demonstrate the government. In our country's electoral law over the last seventy years, they have been applied to all elections, except for one, reinforced analogue systems. There have been various variations, but always with a view to achieving stable governments. The only exception, therefore, was the period of 1989-90, with the political, economic and social results known at that time, after it took three turbulent elections in ten months to finally form the self-powered government of Constantine Mitsotakis. I would remind you here, Mr. Scandalides, that Mr. Mitsotakis did not work on the electoral law at that time. Despite the paradoxes, he didn't change the law as soon as he was elected. Remember, I guess, better than me. The current government, while respecting the pre-election commitments to change the existing institutional simple analogy established by the previous SYRIZA government, and without apothecating the electorate and political parties, proposes amendments to the electoral law adopted by the Greek people on 7 July. Election law comes three and a half years before the end of the parliament's term of office, in order to avoid malfunctions, which will inevitably result from the implementation of a purely proportional electoral system, since the country will be dragged into repeated fruitless elections. Historically, we've seen it happen. A recent example was the application of a proportional system to the elections of local government, where the municipalities and regions of the country had been in a state of government and administrative paralysis until our Government intervened regulatoryly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is critical of the opposition parties that the government is supposed to legislate arrogantly, exploiting the data. They themselves judge the diverse, apparently, both to SYRIZA and to former PASOK. You might forget. But we remember. The warning difference is the time each chooses for changing the electoral law. The timing shows each other's motives. You all, when you saw that you were losing, changed the electoral law. Political aiming at the expense of the country and the people. On the contrary, the New Democracy has been consistently in favour of the enhanced analogy, irrespective of where the scale was reached. Civic Opposition arrives to blame us for stealing the seats from all parties to pay the first. On the one hand, Mr. Tsipras forgets that he had every opportunity to pass a law of simple proportionality from his first government. He didn't. He preferred the election system that gave him a bonus of fifty seats. Four years and two election tests fine made you the bonus of the fifty seats. And when did he remember the mere analogy? When the measurements now clearly showed that they would lose the country's governance. There he returned to his left-wing roots on simple analogy. Here, then, we add that political opportunism is also added to political hypocrisy. On the other hand, the statement on theft of seats by the parties to be premiumed is untrue. The Pavlopoulou Law in 2008, with which Mr. Tsipras was fine, provided the first party with fifty seats, irrespective of the vote, even with one vote. We do not restore this framework. On the contrary, we are establishing an enhanced proportional system, a step-by-step bonus, if the first party receives more than 25%. The remaining two hundred eighty seats shall be divided proportionally between parties entering the House. More than 25% and for every half percent the first party will get an extra bonus a seat. Clearly, this is a fairer electoral law than the previous one. Of course, it facilitates the formation of self-powered governments, since the first party exceeds or approaches 40%. But the truth is that today, despite the supposed large bonus, since the two fifty seats are divided proportionally, we have a ratio of two hundred fifty to three hundred to three hundred to three,3 total election system. Is there a different realistic proposal that the opposition parties are prepared to discuss? Because your obsession with a mere analogous system is known in advance to lead to a dead end. A country such as Greece, which is called upon to face up to a number of other challenges and at the same time, is trying to regain its pitfall, does not mean that it is swayed in multiple elections. I close my position by stressing that the replacement of mere analogous to a strengthened system has been our central pre-election commitment. The new electoral law was tabled and will be voted in neutral time. We are now legislating and not on the eve of the elections. We therefore exclude the surprise of the parties and the electorate. We do not go along with constant elections, because these cause destabilisation in our national economy and in our geopolitical position. Destabilization, of course, is in your DNA, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You're chaos lovers. And I'm not saying it. Your Chief says so himself. Asked when he was going to bring change with simple analogues, he replied by declaring Mao: "Great turbulence, wonderful situation". That's how you think. On the contrary, we seek the institutional armour of the country by means of a system which promotes political stability and the development perspective that, after ten years of economic difficulty, we absolutely need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u72	Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that the Members of the New Democracy do not swear when they say that we are legislating now and not on the eve of the elections, because we may have an election here today. I wonder, by listening to you yesterday, because unemployment has been growing in the near future, while private sector wages have declined steadily, while the contributions to nine out of ten insured people are increasing, while pensions are falling, while all of the education community condemns the impoverished bill that you passed yesterday, while in our islands, residents are uprooted because you cannot, you are incapable of dealing with the immigration issue, while banks are preparing to take homes of the economically weaker citizens, while in our national issues we have been isolated, while in our hospitals and pharmacies there are no drugs and surgery is stopped, your poorness is the electoral system and how you will change it. Do you consider it reasonable to open a debate on this matter, and it has not been six months since the elections? Do you consider it reasonable to drag the country into double elections, by circumventing the constitutional prediction that elections should not be passed on, that is, according to the short-term needs of the majority? Do you consider it reasonable to spend tens of millions of euros while cutting off the social dividend? The excuse that you made an election commitment to change the electoral law does not negate self-evident. Election laws are passed to be tested and judged by results and not to be worked by you, because you fear destabilisation, not of the country, of course, but yours. Why are you afraid of destabilising? Because, in the case of the simple analogue, you will not have any party or party formation or coalition, with which you can cooperate, except for the right-wing powers. For this reason, you want to prevent the formation of partnerships in the progressive democratic forces of the country. The New Democracy in the six months of its government has shown us that it is changing the laws according to its will, depending on whether they suit it. And if the law doesn't suit it, it changes it too. He has shown this to us in the case of the SPS Commander, where by urgent amendment, by undertaking institutional diversion, he has changed the law on the qualifications required. It has proved to us in the electoral system for the municipalities and regions, which has changed since the elections, distorting the popular verdict. And proves it to us every day with all the bills. Now, then, once again, he does not hesitate to put the country and the political system into a new adventure on the pretext of supposed rulership. The enhanced proportional effect, however, does not lead to either cyberdynamicity or governmental stability. The enhanced analogue has shaped bipartisanism and therefore, the partyisation of the state, the partyisation of universities, the partyisation of trade unions and organs. It has shaped arrogant and corrupt political and almighty political groups, which have finally led us to the crisis and destruction of our country. On the contrary, the simple analogue system is the electoral system that favours the preparation and implementation of political cooperation, leaving the door open to the formation of majority co-operation with a progressive sign. That is, partnerships that allow for the prospect of changes under the influence of social and political forces of the Left. That is why its abolition is a crucial issue for the right and cannot be left for later. Simple analogue produces consistency and seriousness. New Democracy doesn't want that. The New Democracy wants to rule uncontrolled on its own. In all measurements of public opinion, it is shown that the people want shocks and consents, it requires a national plan, a national strategy and a common vision for the country, it requires the possibility of a common policy on serious national issues such as immigration, foreign policy and others. It is no coincidence that over 45% of the voters are not going to vote. This unpleasant fact is largely due to the disillusionment of the world by the electoral system, which turns minorities into majorities, which favours the client state, the rousfetti, the complexion, the major economic interests. The responsibility of the parties is very great. Smaller parties have to prove today that they have not been directly or indirectly collated with the Right. The grocery interests must be eliminated and all opposition parties must vote against this bill, leaving behind the narrow party interest. The question is one crucial one: is a government legitimate by a virtual majority to make decisions? No, clearly not. The majority of the Greek people have not sent you to the position you are in today, the minority sent you, and at least fifty of you do not think you are in this Chamber today. And the only thing for sure is that you won't be, because in the next elections people will give their answer. In the next elections, which will take place on a simple analogue basis, the people will command a government of progressive majority and popular sovereignty and we will do everything we can to implement its mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of twenty students and students and four of their educational attendants from the 61st Municipal School of Patras. Welcome from Patras to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the colleague of the New Democracy, Mr Manolakos Nikolaos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, once again, remains consistent with what it had said in the election and has already tabled, in the first half of its government, the electoral law. This is undoubtedly a great intervention that opens the way for the country's institutional armour and the door to political stability and development prospects. Of course, the aim is to ensure a stable government structure against liquid political blocs and governmental formations. I would remind you that under laws less proportionate than we are proposing today, Prime Minister George Papandreou, Alexis Tsipras, Antonis Samaras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis were elected. This bill does not prevent the formation of co-operation governments, as the previous law did not prevent the creation of co-operation governments of SYRIZA - ANEL and the tripartite New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR. In no case, then, does it weaken the logic of creating political shocks, as has been said, but it aims to promote real shocks rather than opportune, uneven and dangerous at the end of the day. This system prioritises responsibility for governance, especially while we have issues of national importance to worry us. To get into the substance of the bill now, it provides for the bonus to be restored, which is mentioned by the Opposition and - supposedly - only the first party. However, this, ladies and gentlemen, will be given staggered according to the percentages of the first party. And that's fair. If the first party gathers less than 25%, it does not receive a bonus, while self-resistance will arise at around 40%. I think we all agree that this is an important percentage, because when a 40% rate comes to the polls and votes for a party, it gives a clear mandate for who wants to govern. A party with such a percentage not only deserves the right, but must have a direct parliamentary majority. I invite you to think only of what would happen in the country today, if the simple analogue had come into effect, how slow we would have moved and how far behind we would have stayed in all areas. SYRIZA's law on simple analogues would not even allow the first party to form a self-powered government with 47%. Does that sound reasonable? Can we condemn the country in advance by making the formation of a government practically impossible at a difficult time when our country will be called upon to face serious risks and challenges from neighbours from the East? I think that SYRIZA has no reason to fear the new proposed electoral system, since he believes it can win and be the first party in the next elections. Honestly, I find no reason to vote for this electoral law. Your argument in favour of a mere analogous to how fair and correct a system is clearly a pretext, because if you really wanted this electoral system for reasons of principle, then you would have gone ahead with its immediate legislation in the first half of your administration. Instead, you ruled for four and a half years with the Independent Greeks by keeping a fisherman on the subject. Do you think and want to convince us that you did not find the time needed to bring this system to the House? You started talking about this only towards the end of your term of office and when the demographic climate changed and you felt the end of your government approaching, with the possibility of your re-election being utopian. On the contrary, we have brought a law that is fairer and more proportionate and is an honest act of our Government, as very early, three and a half years before the end of the term, the terms of the election game are laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our concern that we should bring all those institutional reforms that will ensure in the country the political stability that it needs and which will give us the green light to continue our work in an uninterrupted manner by laying the foundations for a new and hopeful course for our country. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I was within time, although a new Member, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u76	Yes, but military! We are going with our colleague from the New Democracy Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law 'Election of Members', which we are debating today, is another pre-election commitment of the New Democracy. And that was the abolition of the mere analogy, which the SYRIZA - ANEL legislated with the sole aim of preventing the New Democracy from forming a self-powered government. A commitment, which was clearly expressed by the President of the party and today's Prime Minister and of course included in our election programme, what the Greek people, by a large majority, approved and enabled the New Democracy to form a powered government again after several years. So the government programme, ladies and gentlemen, is what the citizen is called upon to choose during the election process. A clear plan, a comprehensive proposal for the country's governance. In this context, governance is fundamental and we must have an electoral system that ensures it. This is what is truly representative, that the electorate should be able to choose whether it wants a one-party government or a co-operation government. Unfortunately, with the election system of the next elections, if we do not change it, self-reliance is impossible even at 47%. It is so structured that the co-operation government is a one-way street. But cooperation is not on the basis of election commitments, but after-trade, which in fact undermine the people's mandate, with paralytic consequences for the country's governance. We have already seen the results of a similar system in the self-government elections last May. In many cases municipalities have led to paralysis. Mayor with more than 50% does not have a majority on the municipal council. We voted on Law 4623 so that local authorities could not function and that local communities would not be paralysed. However, historical systems in proportion have been tested in our country again. It's nothing new. The governments that created were generally weak and short-term, most of the time leading the country to early elections. We are at a time when the stability of governments and the smooth completion of the electoral cycle is of paramount importance for the national economy, but also for national issues. Any constant and repeated elections will send destabilisation messages to the markets and affect our international authority. It is clear, therefore, that the current system needs to be changed. So let us see the government's proposal and what it predicts. Initially, we are not talking about restoring the system, which was in place until the recent elections in July 2019. It is a new system that comes to correct and abolish a large part of the current system, but takes into account proposals from time to time expressed by opposition parties. It is more proportionate, but it fairly guarantees governance. The basic provision is that any seat premium should be valid only if the first party has more than 25% valid. It therefore avoids distortion of popular will due to a premium in extreme cases. However, and at more than 25% the distribution of the premium is to be graduated up to a maximum of fifty seats for the first party which will receive more than 40% valid. This is, in my view, a fair balance between proportionality and governance. The first party is recognised and a premium is granted, since it has a high percentage, while proportionality is favoured if one party is not elected. And that, I believe, also favours small parties. In conclusion, I should like to mention, Mr President, the time when the draft law was tabled. We are very far away from the completion of the four-year period, at an election-neutral time and at a favourable demographic period for New Democracy. The government's samples so far are extremely positive, but no one can know the political situation at the end of this parliamentary term. So we cannot ignore the slightest suspicion of party calculations and purposes, which we cannot say about the adoption of the law in force at the time that has taken place. It is clear to me that political stability is the objective of this draft, a more equitable electoral law, which allows the country to be governed. I therefore appeal to all the wards of the National Representation to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr Vasiliadis. We shall now proceed with our colleague from New Democracy, Mr Davaki. Then, as I have said, Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Folis, will be followed and the President, Mr Voutsis, will be given the floor. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear and politically explained, I would say, that every electoral law expresses and ludicrousss the self-interest of each government, which has the legislative initiative as well. At the same time, however, in my view, every electoral law must be a balance between the principle of representativeness and the need for a stable and uncomfortable government of so-called rulership. As we all know, representativeness expresses the ultimate value of our democratic culture, which is popular sovereignty: the expression of popular sovereignty is more authentic than anyone in this Chamber. On the other hand, democratic principles require that the composition of Parliament represents, as genuine and proportionately as possible, the electoral power of each political proposal. I will tell you one of the main problems of our political system, if anyone can say so, as a political system. Because, let me say, over the past twenty years, the political system has been subjected to many shots so that it is difficult to call a system. In any case, let us now say a political system. It has as a passionateness the failure to respect the election commitments of each political party, as put before the Greek people's crisis. For something, for which no one can blame this six-month government until now, it is that it does not implement its programme. Imprint and aspect of the implementation of this programme is the appearance before the National Representation of this bill, this electoral law. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the balance achieved with this electoral law is clearly better than any previous electoral system. I talked about self-interest. Indeed, there is selfishness. The question is what the motives of this selfishness are on the basis of past experience, but also on the basis of practicability, which the place needs, especially at these difficult times which have been going through in recent years. I have already heard Mr Scandalides, who has made a modest speech, who has basically a sense of experience, because he has introduced electoral law in the past, for which I welcome his efforts in terms of an important part of this electoral law, which was a reduction in the electoral expenditure of the candidates. You realize that big fish could waste fat money while others couldn’t. They were drastically and effectively reduced by the then legislation, which Mr Scandalidis had brought in as electoral law, which also spoke about the need for consultation, which is well expressed in the simple analogue. The simple analogue, which from the hagiography of the Left, both radical and communist, I believe has left nothing more than a blank letter, which expresses more genuinely the selfishness of the left parties vis-à-vis governmentality, which is what is called for in every election campaign. But the conciliation - and I would like to say this while you are here - must not be an empty letter which is only expressed on a paper which can change tomorrow which is the electoral law. The consensus, which we so much say from this Step and from this Chamber, which the Greek people need, must be expressed genuinely and unselfishly here according to the rule, according to governmental practice, which has a party and, in particular, a political leader, who does not need three - four votes of MPs to buy them - in an introductory capacity, always so that I do not misunderstood - and put them in the electoral system, as was recently done on Mr Tsipras' prestige, but applies this understanding. How does she apply it? See the composition of Mitsotakis Government to see that they come as members and persons who did not have ideological affinity with New Democracy in the past, but have affinity for offering, zealous offering and working effort to change bad texts in this place. This is the understanding, in my opinion, and I believe that we will be judged in this regard by the Greek people, as will be judged by the implementation of our programme. SYRIZA's stance on simple analogy, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, is absolutely hypocritical. If the simple analogue was the real pursuit of the sudden government party, then, as many of us colleagues have said, in the first months of 2015, because for the first time the left was in the government in this form that it was and should have applied this long-term pursuit. He didn't. He only did it to create stumbling blocks in the next government. I believe that the party, which today has the responsibility of governing this place, does not play electoral games, and that is reflected in its daily practice. The new electoral law is a clear implementation of our pre-election commitment and is also a clear pursuit of the Mitsotakis government to be able to govern the place with a climate of consensus and with a climate of understanding, as was recently seen from the choice in the face of the new President of the Republic, and on the basis of the offer to the place and the change of bad texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories by twenty-four students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 53rd General High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed with our colleague from the Change Movement, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking, listening to and following the whole procedure for the new electoral law, how much difference it separates the climate between the vote that we had on Wednesday for the new President of the Republic and the debate we have these days on the new electoral law. On Wednesday there was a strong message of consensus. There was, of course, a proposal which enabled this consensus to be expressed. Today, unfortunately, polarization and confrontation exist. There are responsibilities, Minister, and there are responsibilities primarily for the government. I cannot believe that a common place could not be found, at least, by the three major parties - and by SYRIZA, including - who has now ruled. But let's go further. Allow me to present my views on the electoral law. I'm going to focus on three main remarks. First, it is known that the Change Movement did not pass the law on the implementation of the mere analogy brought by the government of SYRIZA in 2016. The multiplicity of this electoral system leads essentially to inability to form a government and to dissolved phenomena in our political system. After all, we do not forget that SYRIZA himself remembered the simple analogue after having taken advantage of the Pavlopoulou law and in January and September 2015, while they had intervened nine months of governance by the government then SYRIZA and ANEL and finally did not find the time to change the electoral law, and we should remind the Greek Parliament of the statements of the emblematic personality of the Left of Manoli Glezou and the top executive at the time of SYRIZA, who said that the first piece of legislation that SYRIZA would bring to Parliament, if he defeated the elections, would be the simple analogue. Finally, instead of that, the previous government has worked on the electoral law to make it more difficult for the next governments to form and to create conditions of instability and incitement, as it obviously seems to be helping it. However, ladies and gentlemen, after ten whole years of crisis and memoranda and while facing major problems, the country cannot withstand any other adventures and experiments that can lead to repeated elections. Secondly, we need to change the electoral law and we are very well talking about it. The question is who this electoral law should be. What should be his characteristics? What are the conditions to be met? We believe in the need for a broad acceptance system that strengthens transparency and the credibility of our electoral system. A new electoral law must combine the political stability that the country so much needs. It is incomprehensible that there should be an electoral law, which is undergoing conditions of instability or instability in the conditions in which the country is found after all this crisis, but also in a tense international environment and especially in our region. I could never imagine, for example, that we could lead to an intercurrent three-fold election, as took place in 1989-1990, in nine months' time to lead us to a bewildered government. Also, the new electoral law must ensure rulership within, yes, of course, also by the logic of self-government, if the first party collects the necessary percentage, but above all gives the reasoning that there may be partnerships, which may exist, if the parties promote the national interest and, of course, a need for scheduling. We at PASOK dared this and acted in 2012 by proposing the need not to collapse the country. We dared and hated huge responsibilities and costs when others then created illusions in a crescendo populism. Thirdly, the new electoral law must ensure the best, maximum possible electoral justice and a more proportionate representation of political flows. Who could be such a law? There is no doubt that, ladies and gentlemen, the law that we have been working on and submitted for two years. It was an integrated proposal for a new electoral law, which in essence can marry and implement governance and proportionality. This proposal was a proposal for responsibility and an integrated system and a very long way from micro-groups and tactical toys. Fourthly, the government could, if it believed so, if it really believed in conciliation and dialogue, be able to bring about a commonly accepted electoral system and take this proposal as a basis. Unfortunately, the law deposited by the New Democracy in Parliament is inconsistent with our political logic, but on the contrary retains the beastly bonus of the fifty seats. I would say, Minister, that you are not just doing this, but you are trying to disorientate and you are trying to adopt - and you are supposed to - the architecture of our own proposal for the step-by-step bonus but with two basic and qualitative differences: Keep as a maximum the bonus of the fifty seats instead of the thirty-five seats that we say, and you anticipate the 20 seats for whoever collects 25% of the votes, but from there on, you are giving a seat of every 0.5% instead of every 1% of all of them. Thus, your proposal leads to a self-government government for any party that gathers around 37%, while on the basis of our proposal it needs at least 40.5%. Fourthly, and I close with that, Mr President, it is very clear that what divides the two proposals, the government proposal and our proposal are not just some quantitative features, it is not a game of numbers, but it is a whole philosophy. The government has chosen to blackmail self-restraint, for this reason it maintains this beastly bonus, which is why it has sought no real dialogue, which is why it seeks to strengthen a social bi-groupism, and that is why it is trying to avoid even the possibility of possible scheduling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u82	Finish, Mr. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that the government is forgetting - it underestimates, if you like - that many designs are overturned by the dynamics of social processes and political reclassifications, by the dynamics of changing correlations. That is why it is clear that we cannot vote on this proposal. It is outside a progressive concept of governance, from a logic of genuine social representativeness, from a logic of consensual solutions in a critical period for the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u84	As I said, Mr Fotillas now has the floor and immediately after that, President Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u85	And then, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u86	Then, I suppose, seeing the mobility in the Group of the Change Parliament that she will be the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Gennamas, who has just entered the Chamber. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want and have no point in moping you up, arguing in favour of the bill, that is, in favour of its advantages, strengthened in the face of mere proportionality. Nor does it make any sense to talk to you about the need for stability in the country and how history shows that where simple analogues were applied led to insolence. The Ministers, our rapporteur and other colleagues have done so in full. After all, at the end of the day, no matter what I say, the only thing we can agree on is that we disagree. And that is not necessarily bad. We could say that this is the quintousity of democracy. That is why I will only stand on two points. The first is about the political masturbation and dignity with which the Prime Minister is dealing with this serious issue. Consequent to his election commitments he brought election law to the vote, shortly after the New Democracy became a government. So in a dead election time. Because we can all appreciate what will happen after three and a half years, but no one can make a real prediction. So the political risk of bringing electoral law now is all ours. But I have news for you. This risk is indifferent to us, because we do not legislate against our micro-political potential benefits, but only on the basis of the interests of the country and nation, and we prove it every day. Constantine Mitsotakis did the same, as did Constantine Mitsotakis, political manhood and dignity, contrary to SYRIZA's common micro-political feasibility that brought electoral law to the middle of his term and it was clear that he would lose the next elections. Is there anyone, even a trustworthy person who believes that SYRIZA would ever bring a mere analogue if he could see that he holds a poll and has a chance of winning the next election? That's where they laugh. The second point to support the first is the practice followed by SYRIZA. After winning the elections, instead of directly bringing the simple analogues to a vote, he made all the risky acrobatics on the back of the Greek people and called for elections, of course, to lose the declared one, but without coming to any debate about possible cooperation, other than those with the fakes. In the question why they did not bring the simple analogue issue, which was a flag for the Left for many decades, they respond to the unheardless shit 'we didn't have time for negotiating'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Lightla...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u89	Here, Mr. Fotio, they're laughing down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u90	Mr Fotella, you are not addressing a colleague through the President of Parliament. Don't ever listen to a colleague's name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u91	I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that in the Minutes, the bill on the mere proportionalness tabled by SYRIZA, when it was now over with the negotiations and it was ample time. It's a one-page law, three simple articles. It could have been written, if not by a secretary of the Ministry, at most by a department of the Ministry in two hours at most. The conclusions are obvious. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasonas Fotilias, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras spoke of arrogance and early elections, because he cannot imagine that there are politicians who put the country's interest above that of the party. But the Government of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, is not prepared to play games with the rule of the country. He is now bringing the law for restoring the enhanced analogy, precisely to disconnect it from any suspicion of electoral feasibility. Of course, the New Democracy is not imagining the country with any of its devastationers. That is why we are voting in favour of everyone who loves the country of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, I should like to abuse your innate kindness because I have spoken to President Voutsi, unless your time permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u93	No, no, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u94	Good. Mr. Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, and I should not like to begin with this, after Mr Fotella, I am obliged to say that, of course, the New Democracy in the order of demolition of whatever positive, particularly in the labour and social issues that have also been made by our government, but also by the institutions in the simple analogues, has come to a rapid break down this bold institutional policy within the political system. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the New Democracy, you have been moving for two days, as has been the case recently with a mixture of selective amnesia policy, at the same time with the production of fear and destruction. Things have been heard, which are really causing common intelligence. It was heard yesterday that, with national disasters, the mere analogous historically was corresponding and harmonized. I beg your pardon, for at least eighty years we all remember, the oldest, and the three-phase electoral systems and the elections of violence and fraud, and especially the huge inconvenience before the junta with distances, etc., regardless of the electoral systems and strong electoral systems, which have even led to the dictatorship after. These are the historical memories of the Greek people. From where and until you arrived here and arrived last night to say about Baimari and about the phenomenon of fascism that he was manned through the simple analogue and the then parliament? In fact, let me say that these are outrageous things and I want to be very direct for the first semester, because it is obvious that you have given it as a very great argument, namely, for the first SYRIZA government. I want to be very direct, I was a Minister of the Interior. We had in the programme statements - obviously - raised the question of mere analogous. That government - like any government - is not six months or seven months or eight months, nor did we, obviously, know that its life will end after seven months. I have nothing to do with the political aspects of the period. Beyond the obvious, which has been heard before - and you know that, whatever happened, the September elections would be with the current electoral system and therefore there was no question of changing it, you must know very well - or have forgotten that, so I say for selective memory - that the government then lost the minimum base required by the Constitution to legislate. So the first government left then and it was forced to use the polls, presently the compromise on the political issue, namely the third memorandum. That's what happened, so it's registered, because it's just in a final vote - you remember - it was under a hundred and twenty, which is the minimum constitutional limit for you to be able to pass even a bill. That's what happened. There's nothing from the account you've told. I'd like to say something about Mr. Lazarides. He's absent now. I heard something he said yesterday. I don't know if he worked in the past few years with the "Truth Group" etc. It is problematic in this Chamber - and even after we went back to the new political phase - that the make news of this period should come back here because I said that I had said that the votes of the Golden Dawn are welcome. There's never such a statement. In "SKAI", in my interview, in question for votes in Parliament, I said that in the House the votes are not divided, but for the simple analogue we obviously did not want the votes of the Golden Dawn. That's the statement ever since. We've made that clear since then. It's okay, even now we're listening to the rest. Let's get to the most important thing. I believe that our country, after the crisis, needs - beyond many other things, particularly in the social sphere - a historical self-consciousness, with bold, radical, institutional changes. You think the conservative party considers that we should go back to normality, meaning this normality to the same ones, that is to say, the same ones that, either institutionally or politically, either in terms of economic policy or in terms of the style and the ethos of power, have led to the bankruptcy of the country. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Let me tell you that we also need a creative insecurity in the government and in the rulers. Accept this terminology that I am now telling you, because phenomena of arrogance, arbitrary and state-of-the-art mentality, interoperable phenomena, phenomena which we all recognise have led the country to a great extent on the rocks, to a certain extent, through cooperation governments, through greater control of Parliament, through programming coincidences, and this is very important. On the contrary, the arrogance of one-party power can lead to these problems again. The whole political system, ladies and gentlemen, has an additional major problem ahead of him, which, because we speak here with percentages and not with precise numbers of citizens voting, we want to forget about it, we want to put it aside for you to know. We haven't put it aside. Not only are we studying it, but we feel very much of a responsibility to resolve it to the extent that it belongs to us. It is the fact that a million four hundred thousand of our fellow citizens do not vote, themselves or alternately, from 2009 to 2019. You know that from the Ministry of Interior, from the evidence we had. This means that a large part - and I repeat perhaps renewed, and perhaps too many of the seventeen that we voted for the legislation - is not coming to the polls. This is extremely important as a matter, as a problem, very big. This world will come - we say - better, more easily, with greater solvency, if there is a sense of usefulness, authenticity, participation in politics, through the climate that the electoral law also shapes. Election law is nothing static. It forms a climate. I would also like to say about political alliances. The President of the Parliamentary Group spoke yesterday, the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras. I want to be very direct. When we brought the law of simple analogy in 2016, it was for the country after the crisis. We are proud, because what we said since August 2018, and then we will leave the third memorandum with society upright, we have done so and I believe that it has been incorporated, there is within the consciousness of the Greek people. When we brought this law in 2016, we obviously wanted it to be the embryonic - and we obviously want it now - to be a climate that will also be created within the people, for a progressive proposal of governance, for a progressive polo of governance, as steps have already been taken in Spain and Portugal - so that the mono-party governance of neoliberal and authoritarian governance, which we are now experiencing, whenever there are elections - in four years, may, I am not saying for tomorrow or tomorrow - be alive, mature and above all realistic - in and through the electoral law - the path of progressive solution. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, our political system wants a great deal of stimulus, precisely for something to be believed, the attraction, to include - if possible - the disposal, representation, as it is a representative parliamentary system, the modern needs of the Greek people and youth. It is in this sense that the democratic culture of the simple analogue must not be overlooked. It's not like that. It affects the whole political system, that is, it affects the parties. Watch out for that. We will need all of us - and I am talking about SYRIZA too - to be programmed, for example, more consistent, more consistent, also in relation to the needs of the world and also in relation to the programmes of the other parties. Parliament is being strengthened. We lived through this in our experience of previous years, where with ANELs we did have a coincidence which was reflected as much as was in the programme statements that were passed in Parliament during the two periods. That's what it was all about. It wasn't an election. It was very targeted and implemented with regard to its objective. In other words, for the Memorandum of Understanding and for the bills in the parallel social programme, it has been implemented - I would say - consistently. But we lived in the situation that in several bills related to issues of freedom, democratic conquests, freedoms, modernization of our society, etc., there was no coincidence, no common basis. And then Parliament was operating and Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, operated. We must not forget that. It ran out of the Potami, from the Change Movement sometimes, sometimes from elsewhere and passed bills. So why not give this breath to the whole political system? I don't speak operationally, technically, about the law, how many seats, where, etc. It is another democratic culture that strengthens parliamentaryism, strengthens the parties, their programming structures and to a certain extent prevents the climate of mono-party governments and huge proportions and battles, red, blue, green camps, cafés and conflicts, political but also civil situations. It prevents such a situation. He lets the flowers - let alone - of the creation of politics, of multi-partyism in all its appearances. Let's try it. Let's dare. The fact that, with so much tension, with such fanaticism - as we have heard yesterday, I was surprised by Mr Gerapetritis - to bring and prudence that this possibility for the new Greece after the crisis will immediately be cut gives rise to astonishment for a party of the democratic arch. I hope that in the elections of the simple analogous period, the three years or the least time that there will be until then, it has actually worked like an embryonic progressive political development in Greece, and then you are the ones to regret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Fotini Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks are very concerned to monitor developments in national matters, but also in refugee matters. It is really a disaster that our allies and our partners consider us predictable and, given both these issues. I have said before that the refugee tends to develop into a national tragedy. That is what developments show. That is what the reactions and mobilisations of the islands show. They can't stand it anymore. Continuous growth in flows can lead to uncontrolled situations. Gentlemen of the government a few days ago you, in fact on your own, confessed to your failure in the refugee field and now run to re-establish the Ministry of Migration Policy. But this alone is not enough, it is not enough! No more weight only in Greece! This is a matter that concerns the whole of the European Union. Finally, take initiatives and press for decisions and measures to be taken at Union level. And before all, we must change the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration that has delivered the keys to Erdogan and has the opportunity to blackmail us in this matter! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] If we have to block decisions, yes, we do! We'll support you on this. We have said this a long time ago, but you are hesitating and delaying. Take immediate measures to guard the borders. It is your Government's responsibility to do so immediately! We told you they were going through the sea, not the land. So, what are you doing there? We told you what we saw in the Diabetes. No reaction on your part. Furthermore, it is really unacceptable that since July around 2019 the funds have been stopped. We have no financial support from the European Union for refugee. Again the Greek people are paying. What's gonna happen? Where's that going? You're not answering us. I know the Prime Minister is not here, but I want to address him. Turkish challenges continue. Mr. Erdogan's threats go beyond every limit and every precedent. I'd agree with him that this case needs temperament. But temper doesn't mean reassurance and doesn't mean, much more, keep running behind the developments, behind the facts. And that's exactly what you did in Berlin. It's been a long time, too! We certainly have international law on our side, but it is clear that this is not enough either. Well done, Mr. Pompeo, but what did he actually do? It equilibriums the victim with the perpetrator and you celebrate about it. It is therefore necessary for the government to move effectively, to play an active role in developments, to bring all of us, particularly our partners, before their responsibilities. You must, however, make it clear to everyone that a political solution for Libya without cancelling the memorandum on Turkey cannot be accepted by Greece. We've been telling you for days. There is something you have started to glide in this direction, but at last say it loud, clear! And if everyone knows, friends, and don't, that if Turkey spreads the finger, it'll lose the hand. And don't expect us to be summoned to a Council of Political Heads in the middle of a crisis, because then it will be too late. You have already delayed the formation of a national line on these issues and we should empower all the political forces of the place with determination and inspire the Greek people, through our unity, of how we should deal with these so serious issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the electoral law. There is no doubt that electoral law is key to the smooth, democratic political functioning. It is the field where the intentions of consensus and understanding really are being tested. Mr. Mitsotakis is not really interested in all of this. What's he doing with this electoral law? He's trying to cut off and sew the institutions in his own measures. It lowered the coiling of self-resistance in the brigade of forces hoping it could rally the next time, or around 36.5%, may be less. However, it is not strong and stable a minority government to the Greek people, which becomes a powerful majority through the bonus of the fifty seats. Not only did you not want consensus on the issue of electoral law, ladies and gentlemen, but you did not even seek a debate on the eyes of the world. Nothing! No conversation between us! One more thing: In a provocative and completely unjustified way, your law excludes party coalitions from the bonus. With a clearly unconstitutional option, which is completely indicative of the government's intentions, a distinction is made between the party and the coalition, without justification and without logic. And you're doing this for the third time. You did so in 1990, you repeated this in 2008 and, of course, New Democracy, on its line, restores this regulation. But I would like to say to you, Minister, that you are very careful in the next few months, because I would like to remind you that the two previous arrangements you have put in place, then you have lost the election, or at least New Democracy has lost the election. It is now clear that the government is in favour of consensus and in practice it is what 'we are now able to do', short-sightedness, practical things. It demonstrates this on a daily basis on all issues, on national issues, on refugees, on education, on labour issues and, of course, on the attempt to control the state. But with the election law you reason without the hotel owner. No electoral law and no artificial seating approach can alter the popular crisis. In the elections, therefore, the Greek people will speak and it will only determine the role and power of each party! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And then, Minister, all these arrogant designs will turn boomerang. The electoral law for us has a direct bearing on the quality of democracy. Simple analogue actually causes division, leads to a failure to form a government, to dissolved phenomena in the political system, much more when those who bring it and vote for it say that they do not intend to cooperate with any party in the political system. It is no coincidence that SYRIZA, who voted for it, became a government twice with the bonus of the fifty seats of the notorious "law of Paulopoulos". We in the Change Movement believe that it is time for very big changes in the political system, which can only begin with the electoral law. We believe, therefore, that today, as ever, we need to ensure political stability without the popular vote being erroneous. It is precisely this need that our proposal answers. Governments of a popular minority - I said it before - are not strong. Our proposal, therefore, is both measured and effective and ensures stable governments, which is what is being called for today. It's a fair electoral system. What's he saying? When the Greek people express their desire to have a self-powered government, this must be done. But when the message of the elections is not strong in favour of the first party, then the electoral system itself should create the conditions for programme convergences and not opportunityal partnerships, which we have seen in the years of the crisis that led to all of this. We, therefore, on a timely basis, have taken responsibility since 2018 and tabled a comprehensive and concrete proposal that upgrades the political system and democratic function, and above all - as I said before - leads to strong governments with strong people and parliamentary support. I would like to point out here that we are, in fact, pleased that many of the elements of our proposal have already been acted, before all the votes of the Greek residents abroad, the fragmentation of the major regions and the maintenance of the 3% threshold as a threshold for the entry of the parties into Parliament. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And we have made a decisive contribution in this direction. However, this electoral law, tabled by the New Democracy Government in Parliament, has nothing to do with our own logic, no matter how much New Democracy tries to disorientate by copying the architecture of our bonus proposal. These two proposals have nothing to do with each other. The real difference is the result, the “Franean” bonus and the low self-resistance limits. So they have a huge difference of philosophy and a final result. Essentially, the New Democracy brings this proposal along with its profoundly conservative logic of all previous years. It is an unjust system that distorts popular will, only responds to the agony and fears of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. It does not serve the needs of the Greek society and the political system, as it has been shaped since the years of the crisis. It's a suggestion of weakness and not of strength. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help noticing that Mr Mitsotakis, with this choice, opens the door to Hail. He probably thinks that with early double elections, he will prolong his stay in power. He imagines jujuphia elections with a mere analogy. But this may be his first delusion. I am saying this because early-election scenarios seem to start with the government itself. And it's obvious why he's doing it. They are in a hurry, they are anxious that the Greek people do not understand that, although they have left the worst, the SYRIZA government, but they have not found what is desirable to the Government of New Democracy. The big issues of the economy remain open, society still has a difficult day's life and our national issues are in crisis. In these circumstances, therefore, in particular, institutional games with dices of double elections are also occult and certainly, as I said before, a sign of great weakness and anguish for the future. We in the Change Movement are not afraid of the Greek people's crisis. Conservation-side dilemmas are over. In the next elections we are sure that the Greek people will seek a truly progressive alternative to governance. That's why we work intensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u99	Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to what Mrs Gennama said, we do not actually disagree. I am referring to our national issues. We, as she said, operate with national confidence, unity and harmony. Fortunately, this is in our political system today and we are therefore expressing the whole of the Greek people. We are open to dialogue, with the framework of international law, but also to our red lines, those relating to our national sovereignty. As far as its position on a political solution is concerned, that is exactly what the Prime Minister has said, that the political solution without cancellation of the illegal Turkish - Libyan Pact cannot be. That is why he pointed out that if this comes within the framework of the European Union, he would veto. I'm just saying these to be recorded in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you can understand what stress I have to accept here the President of the Change Movement. But by following the President, what did I see? Where's our difference? We agree on changing the electoral law, but our difference is whether the bonus will be 35% or 50%. I don't think that matters very much. Importantly, people experienced, people who have handled Greece's issues find that - you know - simple analogue does not lead anywhere. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Let me, Mr President and Minister, not repeat these thousands. A little realism needs here. Ladies and gentlemen, have you had a genocide of memory? Didn't you see the vulnerabilities that happened with the simple analogy? He ruled a party with a partner who hugged, kissed, lifted hands, and after a period of time, one was calling the traitor the other, and the other was calling them "lamoyas" and ended up in the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u103	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u104	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u105	With the Independent Greeks?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u106	Is that just proportional? That was boosted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u107	No, I'm talking about partnerships. That's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u108	Please, no vacation. Mr Hatzidakis, continue your speech without addressing Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u109	When you were forced to cooperate with the enhanced analogue, think that with the simple analogue you should work with people who are then hard to say 'good morning'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u110	Do you remember Katsiki?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u111	Please, no dialogue. You're welcome, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u112	A very good point is to resolve this issue with the strayers, whom you take whenever you like. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect - I do not think I am in Parliament because I have any shopping - that you cannot cooperate with one party and make ministers who have taken two thousand votes, three thousand votes. There was a Minister who made the trip of the earth five times to bring what? Bring investment, meet the country. And he didn't bring anything! We lost him, he disappeared. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are very few to disagree. However, we must understand that if we do not make the right moves, if we do not have a real government with specific objectives, we will not go well, we will be vulnerable. And, finally, let go of the simple analogue! We lived in municipal elections. What kind of stubbornness was that? What could that be, becoming a mayor of 15% and assigning all the administration of the municipality to others, so that he has the title of the mayor? If this happened to me, even though I'm a Cretan, I'd accept what the Japanese do, I'd have done a raki. In other words, transfer all my municipality to rule him - who? - those who took 5%, 7% and 10%! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following: we have both ruled here and there, and I have the impression that the country is no longer able to withstand this law. Because you are capable people and people of speech and educated, the hair makes it hair. We have suffered a dantonism, we have lost the colors and we always try to govern the country with our political survival. The country must survive! And because you are a party of power, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I, if I were SYRIZA, would make a great retreat to the Minister of the Interior, because it enables me to rule autonomously, self-sufficiently. So, since you're a spirit of authority, vote for it. And since you think that New Democracy is going so badly, that you haven't understood or politely - or it seems because you're studying too much, you're locked in your offices - get out the walk I'm doing from morning to night, see what I'm collecting and we'll see what's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u113	What are you collecting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u114	If I were, Mr. Friend, SYRIZA, I would vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 'A birth allowance and other provisions'. Mr Tsavdaridis Lazaros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a profoundly political bill is being passed in plenary today, which, at its core, does not simply involve the new way and procedure for the election of Members, but something even deeper and more vital to our nation, a modern concept and worldview of the way the country is governed in the new era, an electoral law that guarantees proportionality, strengthens governance, shields the people's will. The Government of New Democracy brings about an electoral law that abolishes the simple analogue established by the SYRIZA ANLL government and finally restores the bonus of seats for the first party, but targeted and fair bonuses, starting from the twenty seats at the level of 25% - because there is no reason to give bonuses - and it will escalate with the bonus of one seat for every 0.5% to 40% and the bonus of this fifty seats. What does that mean in practice? It means that a party that receives an election vote close to 37% can have self-reliance in the House. It means that a stable government, without weights, will be able to draw up and implement a programme and policies more quickly, more efficiently, as the social majority demands. In this way, the people's mandate will be served to the fullest extent, without deploring itself, an element of intersectionality contrary to what has been done and what is allegedly simple, the allegedly inappropriate analogous in practice, but an allegedly inappropriate analogy which, unfortunately, exploits the will of the voters, misunderstood it by doctrinating it with dogmatic bulbs, holding close interests, opportunistic and timely alliances, political equilibrium, and a allegedly proportional one which, in practice, has proved to be simplistic and, unfortunately, already chaotic by the recent municipal and regional elections, where combinations have taken place with impressive majorities, were unable to implement their programming declarations. So you want, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, intergovernmentalism, lasting compromises, stagnation, chaos, such as in 1990 and 1993, where with a system of mere proportional to the elections parties with more than 46% could not govern the country. And that's what you want, because if you were really cut off for the simple analogue, if you really felt that the simple analogue is the antidote and the answer, then why didn't you bring it as soon as you took over the country's governance in 2015? Because what we all remember is that, when you felt strong and dominating, the elections that you had announced, you did them with the old system of enhanced analogy and not, of course, with the simple one. But then the pain to change the electoral system began. The truth, however, is that you do not feel a party of power and therefore seek to encourage the mess. Like in the streets, in cybercracy! And in the face of total negligence of opposition arguments, in the face of your absolute refusal to see the obvious and necessary, you are exhausted in criticisms of fire, day-to-day and impatient for a allegedly secret agenda, for supposedly premature elections. But listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: the position of Prime Minister for the electoral law was clearly formulated before the elections. It was a programming statement, it took the popular mandate, and it is now being implemented. Not only does this law hide appropriateness, but it is clear, crystal clear and fully compatible with our election commitments, as well as with the philosophy of our prolongation, but also with modern reality. In fact, unlike you, we do not change the electoral law whenever it suits us. On the contrary, as we have made an election commitment, we are moving towards this change at the beginning and not at the end of the four-year period, because that is what political culture, the truth, respect for the voter, the institutions and the citizens themselves. Therefore, the direct vote of a new electoral law not only does it hide the interests, not only does it relate to early elections, but the elections, as the Prime Minister has already said many times, will take place at the end of the four-year period. In fact, if the electoral law does not have two hundred votes, as the Constitution stipulates, so that it directly applies, then the next elections which will take place in 2023 are likely to be double. Because we are not going to allow the country to be an unregulated ship, particularly in times that are crucial to the economy, our national and geopolitical interests, nor are we going to allow intergovernmentalism to be the coup d'état for social upheavals and rehearsing social automation in order to make their revolutionary exercise on the backs of society. With this data I consider this piece of legislation to be necessary not only, but also required by history, and its vote will mark the completion of all major institutional interventions on the governance of our country, which initially had the state as the predominant first, then the vote on Greeks abroad and just before the vote on the new President of the Hellenic Republic in a climate of great consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u117	The next speaker is Mr Constantinidis Efstathos from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone had to score the importance of each legislative procedure, it would undoubtedly have been very high in this drafting of the electoral law, since he is the one running the democratic expression of the citizens in a parliamentary force of the parties, shaping political correlations and ultimately the conditions for the country's governance. There has been a debate on the most democratic, the fairest, the most representative or the most representative of our political culture. With various variations, the dimension is identified between simple and enhanced proportions. The same debate has also recently evolved in the process of reviewing the constitution, of course, from another perspective, that of the constitutionalisation of the electoral system. As a general rule, this debate is accompanied by strong suspicion, since the legislative initiative usually conceals hypnotistic intentions. In other words, it aims to manipulate the ensuing electoral trend. But the electoral law under discussion does not involve such a feasibility. It is not'sur mesure'. It's not a suit stitched up by some government. It responds to the expression of the people's will, which it wants to render in the most genuine and inappropriate way. I'll dare say it's a personal law. I'll explain why. First of all, he is honest, because he is being introduced for the first six months of the government service and not for a suspected election time. It is clear that in the first eighth of its term, no government can predict the political correlations that will apply three and a half years later to try to distort the intention of the voters. It is honest because it does not single-hand the first party, but conditional and escalating. But he's also consistent, because he doesn't surprise anyone. It responds to the permanent position of the New Democracy in favour of governmentality. Our resignation over time defends the self-powered governments, accountable to the electorate for the consistency of their pre-election commitments. In addition, the change in the electoral law was a commitment of the current government during the election process. But what else is electoral law, apart from honest and consistent? She is intelligent because she has electoral intelligence, she interprets the intention of voters to form a government. He's a hybrid, someone would say, election law. It can be transformed from a mere law to a law of enhanced proportionality, depending on the electoral body’s preferences. If the voters do not give any party more than 25%, it is simply proportional, without any premium, which is fair, since when no party gathers a visible majority, it is probably pointless to provide some parliamentary bonuses. But when the first party reaches more than 25%, then the law turns itself into a reinforced analogue. The more the election force of the first party is increased, the more its parliamentary power is strengthened, with a simple and clear type: one seat for every half percentage point. But he's both modern and moderate. It does not follow the rule 'the first takes it all'. On the other hand, it discourages political tension, since self-resistance requires high electoral rates. So the parties that aspire to govern should address the wider audiences with consensual mood rather than with dissatisfaction. But he's also intact. It is not deceived by pre-formative and opportunistic party consortia, which are intended to protect the parliamentary premium in order to solve any of them on the day following the elections. The consensus argument is not by definition inconsistent with the one-party governments nor can it be the compulsory conclusion of a predetermined electoral deadlock. Consensus is built on the basis of creative programming compositions and not on the basis of symptoms. It is now true that traditional parties are not reflecting society's views at a time when it is changing at a shallow rate. In addition, in our post-government history, multi-party governmental patterns emerged from systems of enhanced analogy, while, where possible, strong consents have been recorded in previous, but also in current self-government service. Recent examples of the vote on the death penalty and the fresh procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, but even this same government scheme. The current government is doing the consensual act. He has the knife, he has the watermelon, to shape the electoral law in the way and in the time he would like. He even had the opportunity to constitutionalise the enhanced proportion. He did not do so because he believes in understanding, because he thinks there is a conflict, because he knows that the short-term utilization of the government majority, especially in matters that go beyond one government term, is harmful to the political life and progress of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, with the above facts and with the above features, I think that the law to be decided is entitled to our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" room twenty-six students and students and three teachers attending from Vardas Ilias General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Francis Georgios from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law promoted shows that the look of the rulers is exclusively on the racing question how they will achieve their only and ultimate goal, which is to stay in power. At the heart of their interest is by what procedures will their political influence and resonance be measured. That is why they are moving towards a vote on a draft electoral law without any intergroup dialogue having taken precedence. By electoral manipulations, the Prime Minister tries to put his fears and uncertainties into practice, prejudicing a electoral system, which is not only fair, but also fails to serve the real needs and demands of Greek citizens. You are not significantly different from your predecessors, gentlemen of the government. And how much they were interested in upgrading our democracy and dealing with the pathogens of our political system. Election law is or should be the most important after the Constitutional Law of the State. It must reflect all the fundamental principles governing political relations in Parliament's multi-partyism. The electoral system should attempt to reconcile two essential characteristics of democracy, the equivalence of citizens' vote on the one hand and the country's governance on the other. This means that the electoral system we are discussing is to ensure, on the one hand, the most objective expression of the equivalence of vote and, on the other hand, the governance and political stability of the country. In all countries of the world, electoral systems have been stable for many years. In our country, however, unfortunately, this has not been the case since 1926 and until now, if I am not mistaken, eighteen different electoral systems have been in place. This means that no one is a product of political agreement and understanding. The electoral law of simple and inappropriate analogous adopted by SYRIZA - of course it used it in both election campaigns that gave as a power party the enhanced analogue - does not apply to any modern democracy, and in fact we must say that it leads to divisions, government and chaotic phenomena. Traditionally, the parties are in favour of the enhanced analogy that the first party presupposes and significantly restricts the principle of equivalence of vote. In fact, it is the party interest and the short-term elections that dictate the position of parties for electoral law. In any case, what I would like to stress is that the electoral system should not be treated opportunely and with party glasses, aiming at conquering or maintaining power. On the other hand, he is an expression of the free and unadulterated popular will and the relationship of the political forces. For this reason, in a democracy, the electoral law should be treated as a matter of principle which will largely guarantee the equivalence of vote, the rule of law and the political stability of the country. We, as a Change Movement, believe the need for a broad acceptance system that strengthens transparency and credibility of the political system, combining the political stability needed by the country, electoral justice, more proportional representation of political flows, dialogue and understanding between the political forces for forming co-operation governments with programming convergence. But we are talking about governments that are strong with broad popular support so that they can respond to the current challenges and ensure a better future for the citizens, but it is clear that these cannot result from excessive bonuses that affect the people's will. In this context we have tabled a comprehensive proposal for electoral law since 2018. It speaks of a fairer and more proportional electoral system, with an election bonus that will only be given if the first party exceeds 25% of the electorate and will be staggered, with a maximum total bonus of thirty-five seats. The same proposal put forward two years ago included the fragmentation of the large electoral districts, the maintenance of a party's 3% entry limit, the possibility of Greeks voting abroad, and transparency measures to fund the parties, with some of the points in our proposal already being implemented. It is worth reminding us that our abstraction, free of austerity and party tactics, in the 2001 Constitutional Review, dared to legislate on any change in the electoral law since the next elections, if there were no two-thirds majority, namely two-thirds. The law deposited by the New Democracy in the House not only is not in line with our political logic, but on the contrary repeats Mr. Pavlopoulou's infamous law, with the robbery bonus of the fifty seats. It leads to a self-government government for any party that gathers around 37% of the electoral system, for which more than 40.5% is required in our proposal. Of course, the New Democracy law leads us to weak governments of a people's minority. Finally, while electoral law should strengthen election cooperation, the government excludes parties' bonuses. Today's House is only the Movement of Change. I shall, in fact, disagree with the previous speaker in the New Democracy who has deceptively spoken about parliamentary consortia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to ask, therefore, whether, in conclusion, the bonus in parties' cooperation has been excluded only from the Change Movement, which is to prolong the cooperation of parties from this House, while all other parties are entitled to it, as are post-election blocs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u121	Mr Vardakis Socrates has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and what you have not said again two days, of course, out of law! "Six months of Baroufakis", "SYRIZA has dismantled the country", "debted wages, pensions, allowances", "debted the economy", "debted the country". I don't think you should get tired anymore, because no one believes you. But let us remember - why you are giving us the right and the right, if you like - some recent bills of yours. From your first bills was the abolition of the good reason for dismissal. You said it was for the benefit of the workers. First victims of the law were OTE workers. There are redundancies in the banks. Such redundancies were, he says, made by the junta. They are not my words - so as not to misunderstand - but the words of workers and trade unions. There have been thousands of redundancies in five months in the private sector. We had a negative intake-off in the eight-month period. They followed - and continue - the redundancies of hundreds of contractors in the Hellenic Post, resulting in the closure of offices, weakened and, in the end, devalued the only utility organisation, the ELTA. In vain workers are now trying to extend their contracts, so the work jungle returns. The Prime Minister, of course, refuses to discuss the question Tsipras on labour. Unemployment is growing, black work is going on cloud. And all that for the good of the Greek people, you say. You finally put a class and there is an absolute democracy in the media! Education and upgrading of universities take off, but with the method of abolishing university schools and with Greece of colleges! Mr. Mitsotakis was celebrating because he, he says, achieved a maximum of three votes. From today, ladies and gentlemen, you will be rejoicing because you will be alone, isolated and few. Of course, your Mr. Velopoulos is giving him. Refugee flows have stopped. They must have stopped listening to Tsipras who caused them, as you were saying, to come to the country. The decongestion of the islands proceeded with lightning. The government has shut Erdogan down in his crab. Growth takes off. What else would the Greek people want to feel satisfied and safe? And not to forget it - Mr. Georgiadis is missing - Minister, tell someone to unblock Poseidon, because the bulldozers that have been driving for the Greek since August and still have not arrived are blocked! And all that from a self-powered government! Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law stops with the sole responsibility of the government the search for and finding broad political convergences. In fact, this is at a time when the country, the political forces, must build a climate of cooperation and understanding. The government is proposing a draft law, and the simple analogue, permanent demand of the country's democratic world has already been passed. We wonder why such proposals should be rejected by our own government, the current government, when the majority of European countries have the same effect. We, loyal to the principles of justice, equality, popular sovereignty, voted as government N.4406/2016 because the pluralist formation of the Parliament is a matter of the democratic and progressive world. Simple proportionally leads to co-operation governments and respects fair distribution of seats. It leads the political system to programmatic shocks and collaborative logic. Government-based formations based on scheduling ensure democracy and better imagery of the electorate's choices. At the same time, proportional representation of political parties helps restore citizens' confidence in democratic institutions and the political system. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are unfortunately choosing a form of over-advanced analogy. That is what it means, of course, not to reflect the popular will, the real connections of the electorate, to alter the expression of the Greek people. The issue of the bonus of seats finds us ideologically opposed as we consider it to be our duty to reflect the will of the electorate as accurately as possible in parliamentary representation. Now, with a 0.1% difference in one party from the other, Mr. Theodoriko, it can get the bonus! The quintusia of democracy! You cannot defend popular sovereignty and by means of majority systems you can change the social majority in a parliamentary minority. You told us yesterday a thousand and two evils that the simple analogue is supposed to bring. I will not go into detail. The only victims of war have not been told by Mr Gerapetritis that they can arise from the simple analogue. But what didn't he tell us? That the strengthened analogue, self-powered governments are creating real victims. I don't say it, the story records it. These government majorities, your own governments, Mr Ministers, went bankrupt the country and poored the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, governments must rely on a real social majority rather than a wide-ranging parliamentary majority. The people's will must be clearly reflected in the governments. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the day before yesterday in the election of the President of the Republic, we were many together showing signs of writing. From today you will be on your own, you will vote isolated, few, and you will certainly have to face the majority of the democratic world in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Haritsis Alexander has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time - and I fear that it will not be the last - that we are here to discuss a bill reflecting the basic pursuit of the government's party, that is, the reversal of time backwards, the return to the days of the old political system, the reversal of logic and practices that led the country to the brink of bankruptcy and political life on the verge of depreciation. We have seen it in other bills, and we see it in what we are discussing today. Why else is the draft law on the electoral system from a return to a familiar and problematic situation where what was dominating was the artificial distortion of the popular verdict? You know, our country has suffered a great deal from changes in electoral systems. If we look at it, already since the 1950s, the changes, which our people called - and they call - reflecting - the sharp crisis of representative democracy, the dark pursuits of holiday centres and, above all, the fear that the decision of many in the polls can shake the established order of things of our political system. Only in Moldavia we had eight pieces of legislation on the electoral system, which, in the vast majority of them, had an objective: the premium for the once-to-onest bicommunism at the expense of the other political forces. In this long succession, the SYRIZA government made a cut, a section of substance, a section of democracy, a cut in the direction of equality and the consolidation of popular sovereignty. And this incision has a name, it's just proportional. Unfortunately, with the various monstrations that have been heard from the New Democracy party over the last few days in this debate, I have to waste some time to say the obvious, that is, the mere analogy is not the monster that leads societies to intergovernmentalism and chaos, the mere analogy is not the creation of a dark brain, the mere analogy is not a perfection from the old, good "Celemente" of the voters. Simple analogue is one of the world's most popular electoral systems, it is the way of raising the European Parliament, it is in the end that simply proportional ensures that parliamentary representation is better matched to the real electoral power of political formations. It's so simple. Most importantly - and this, in our view, is the most important one - that of a different approach to policy, a concept which arises from the fundamental principle of equality of vote for citizens. And it doesn't stop there. It extends to the active involvement of citizens and encourages, in fact, political pluralism, the search for consensus, the emergence of a dynamic field of programming convergences and political processes. That is exactly what the New Democracy Government is afraid of, which is why the ghost of power is being retiring, rather than discussing the substance, that is, how our political system will take a step forward, how we will proceed towards forming cooperation governments on the basis of principles, how pluralism will become a component of our democracy, that is, what corresponds to our country. And it corresponds to our country especially now, especially today, after the difficult times of the crisis, when we saw its reflection on the depreciation and the political system. That is why the SYRIZA government in 2016 voted for simple proportional reform and linked this very large reform to three important institutional changes: the enlargement of the electorate and the inclusion of the new seventeen years in the electorate, the fragmentation of the large regions and the submission of a scientific findings - the first since the Migration - to regulate the issue of the vote of off-state voters, which also opened the way for the recent vote on the relevant regulation by our Parliament. Institutional reforms and the simple analogue were the objective: to mark a new beginning, a new beginning that is relevant to the overall effort of our people in the years of the crisis, a new beginning that describes Greece of the 21st century, based on the consolidation and expansion of democracy, the safeguarding of political participation, the revitalization of the country's political life. And we must all be honest here: do we want cooperation, after all? Do we or do we not want programmatic shocks? Do we want or do we want governments expressing the social majority? Because if we respond categorically, the simple analogue is the instrument, it is the vehicle to achieve this. If not, as the New Democracy does, let us stop - and I call on her to do - talking vaguely and hypocritically about overcoming, it is assumed, of the old dividing lines, consensus and cooperation. The New Democracy proves that all of this is air words. That is why it has been indulged in a systematic depreciation of the very idea of mere analogy. We heard last night and some creepy historical proportions on the side of the Minister of State Mr. Gerapetritis. The New Democracy attempts to present as the biggest problem of democracy that electoral system, which ultimately is the subject of the democratic base itself, is the equitable vote. That is why the New Democracy brings us here the reheated food of the enhanced analogy, mainly called for by the famous bonus. What you are concerned with, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the re-establishment of a political system that builds artificial majorities, which inspires the logic of useful and useless voting, which broadens the inequality of the people's vote. And you are doing this today with a view to the immediate, short-term future in order to prevent our country from following the European example, where elections are the starting point for programming discussions between political forces, parties, with the immediate aim of forming co-operation governments, governments that reflect the social majority, express the diversity of political life, compose on the real problems. All this, of course, for the New Democracy Government and its government majority is indifferent. All that matters is the over-premise of the first party and ultimately the state's total control over party feuds. It is, after all, self-restraint of power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. For the past six months we have seen the New Democracy Government systematically attempt to uncover areas and reforms, conquests over the period 2015-2019, and we must say that the New Democracy Government has a systematic systemicity, shows a consistency. We have seen this with the development law and its anti-environmental regulations, and we have seen it with the anti-government regulations that the Minister for Labour brings, we have seen it with the reforms in education. This time it does so in the institutional field. It attempts to abolish a conquest on the deepest substance of our democracy. The Greek society, however, does not forget that it is the one-party social minority governments that have led the country to the forefront of the cliff. Today, such a one-party government demolishes the social state, abuses the ability to develop the country and the Greek economy, fails to intervene actively in the complex national issues and the challenges of the 21st century. In this past, to which the New Democracy Government leads us, we cannot go back. So we will insist. We will defend the simple analogue, we will defend the equivalence of vote, we will defend the self-evident, that the people, through their elected representatives, are the source of all the political powers of our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u125	Mr Athanasios Ljutas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary we are discussing the new electoral law. At the same time, at the same time as the debate we are having, we are talking about the stability of our country, about stable and strong governments, about the solution to the deadlocks and the chaos that intergovernmentalism can create in our country and society. Historically, not only in our country, but also in all the developed democracies in the world, stable governments have been and are the prerequisite for growth and prosperity. This is the case, as a majority governmental force can offer the treaty for the realisation of a government project. A stable government does not have to deal with the opportunism and small-scale toys, which under other circumstances would have to deal with in order to move forward with a policy. This debate is of particular importance today, when our country comes out of the crisis, a crisis that has tortured our society and our country. Today, Greece is strong. And it is possible, because it has a stable and strong government, a government that has designed and implemented a programme that is a development and progress programme, a programme that has as a one-way programme a better future for all Greeks. This, in other words, the prospect of great growth, would not be so given if we had a weak, weak government, that is to say, which should have been based on pillars that have many times proved helpless for a long time to support a programme effectively. This weak government would have emerged from a simple analogue system, that is, a electoral system just like what the previous SYRIZA government voted for, a electoral system that came along with the rest of their agenda to create chaos and insecurity in a country and a society that is desperately seeking solutions and realistic hopes for a better future. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a precondition for an effective and beneficial policy to be able to match the culture of a society and a political system. No one sees that in the democracies formed in a political and party consensus, the analogue system was able to function. But when we talk about the case of our country, simple historically prevented any progress. The lack of consensus and the exacerbation of micro-communism from specific aspects of Parliament prevented continuity and progress. This resulted in the interruption of the government's work and early recourse to the polls. Early recourse to the polls even in critical economic and social conditions for our country. Our New Democracy and Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, seeing the chaos that the simple analogue system can create, come and provide solutions. The New Democracy as a great institutional player of our country, who historically put the interest of the country and the Greeks above micro-partisanism, comes and corrects a political mistake. By voting for the new electoral system, which fully meets the needs of representation and justice, our government comes and shields the great prospect of development for our country. It is this perspective that has been created and shaped since the first moment of our government's election last July. Today, our home country has an economy that is "run", an economy that is borrowing cheaply even at negative rates, an economy for which the forecasts of international economic houses are talking about greater growth in the future. Today, then, we must not leave these obstacles, which could halt our upward course, to be misled above our country's political life. In order to continue our upward dynamic course, a programme of reforms, economic freedom and social justice, the programme of our Government, the New Democracy, are a prerequisite. A prerequisite for this upward dynamic is also the formation of an environment of stability. The stability environment can only be created, developed and blossomed if a country's overall institutional system can be guided by the rules of this stability. At the same time, we are seeing today all the threats that are forming in our geopolitical environment. A geopolitical environment of high volatility and major threats is already formed in the Eastern Mediterranean. Our government and the Prime Minister with power and force shield our country. They strongly defend our sovereign rights. They achieve stable and decisive maximum historical and diplomatic victories. A prerequisite for the continuation of our dynamic foreign policy is once again the strong governments, governments that can only focus on the good of our nation and not on threats that are created inside through convergences. We therefore need an environment of stability for our country. That is our goal, and we will move on to that objective. An electoral system of enhanced proportionality is a treaty and a rule of stability. On the contrary, the simple analogue comes and threatens the objective of our commitment to development and a better future for all Greeks. The chaos is not a scenario for the Government of New Democracy. The risk of intensification and chaos, that is, the risk that would threaten everything we have been able to achieve in the past six months, with courage and effort, is not a scenario for us. We are shaping and walking on this institutional path, which will complement and support our policy, a policy that is intended to secure our country and all Greeks. That is what we are achieving today by voting for the new electoral system with strength, courage, patriotism and above all love for the country and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to and compassing all this, we can achieve a great deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u127	Mr Ioannis Melas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not just talking about a bill, about how the National Delegation will be formed and how it works. We are discussing and deciding how the popular will be represented in Parliament. So by electoral law, we are creating today and the future of the country, and that is why we all need the responsibility and maturity of those who are unknown to you in SYRIZA. In 2016 you legislated the simple analogue as a electoral system. Your argument was that, with the mere analogy, partnerships would be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I too would remind you from this Step that in 2015 you formed a government with the ANELs, and twice, both January and September. I have even heard Mr Vardakis say before his SYRIZA colleagues that a permanent request from the democratic citizens of the country is simply proportional. As I have heard Mr Haritsis say, this electoral system is an artificial distortion of the popular verdict. So why didn't you change it from January until September 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u129	What should we change first?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u130	You could have. You were in a hurry, but you didn't do it and you didn't do it for a very specific reason, because you were attracted to the 50 seats bonus and did not stop you from cooperating with the Independent Greeks. So today, why do you find it undemocratic and unrepresentative? Cooperation and consensus are concepts that are not linked to the electoral system. It is a concept that we must all have in mind when it is necessary to solve major problems in society, when we are called upon to deal with major national issues at critical times in our history. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are not the same and we are not going to be and neither are we. We have clear and clear ideological differences. We represent society without dividers and exceptions. We see shocks and consensus where necessary and not social exclusion. The great centre-right party always legislated and ruled for the benefit of the citizens and the nation for the progress and prosperity of our society. For these practices, the sovereign Greek people and no one else judged us. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that simply analogous voting in 2016 served the political purposes of SYRIZA. You saw the defeat coming and wanted to drug the New Democracy course, as did Kutsogiorgas. You brought a new law, such as the PASOK in 1989, aimed at losing self-reliance on New Democracy and provoking chaos in the country. You thought that, with the simple analogue, you had a right to power even from the minority position. Simple analogue means insolence, political instability, it means turmoil. That's what you wanted to achieve, create chaos and powerlessness. Listen to this, I'll give you a statement and please try to deliver it to a political person. "If we establish the simple analogue country will never be governed." You certainly consider this to be a statement by a Member of the New Democracy. But it's not. This phrase belongs to the former Minister of SYRIZA, Mr Kurubli. He said it in 2016. Your own Member and former top Minister admitted the insolence that would create simply proportionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u131	Shocking revelation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u132	I do not know if it is a shocking revelation, but it is a shocking thing to review yourself at all times and what you say is that you have now stopped being credible to the Greek people. Poverty that we would have in local government too, if it did not make any changes to "KLITHEN" our Government. However, despite the direct and important initiatives and interventions of the Ministry of the Interior, the problems, which are rooted in the mere proportional system remain serious. With the simple analogue you have not targeted the cooperation of the political forces, you have targeted a balance of interests and political blackmail, aiming at the opportunityal shocks of political extremism, aimed at creating short-lived governments. However, the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, gave a strong signal on 7 July to these aims. At the same time, he gave the New Democracy a clear and strong mandate to abolish the mere analogous. The abolition of mere analogous was not just a pre-election commitment that we are doing, we are in favour of reinforced analogy. It is a basic principle and a permanent position of our prolongation. The simple analogue was applied in our country in the past in the mid-1920 ’ s to the mid-1950 ’ s, except in 1928, in 1930 and in 1935. The average of the governments that came out of these elections was six months. You must understand, then, that the mere analogy does not suit the Greek political system. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are abolishing the simple analogue system, bringing in a fairer, more proportional electoral system, a system that ensures the governance of the place. The time to abolish the simple analogy does not conceal any political feasibility. The next elections will normally take place in their constitutional time. The country must not be found unresolved and dragged into repeated elections. Do you not understand that, through constant elections, we are losing our authority internationally as a country, that destabilisation is caused both economically and geopolitically? Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in an international and constantly unstable environment. The area of the south-eastern Mediterranean is erupted. Turkey has provoked our sovereign rights and interests. It is hours and moments of deep political responsibility. The stability of the governments from now on must be a priority. Has anyone considered the application of the mere proportionalness of who could face a major national crisis? Imias and the sacrifice of our three heroic officers Panagiotis Vlahakos, Hector Yalopsos and Christoulos Karathanassis took place these days twenty-four years ago in a moment of instability at a government level. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are not merely ensuring the governance and stability of the place. We are taking a step towards the future. Our aim is through the introduction of a credible, simple and functional electoral law to restore citizens' confidence in the political system, to give governments a stable life horizon. Have you also ever considered which major investor would come to invest in Greece when he would not know who and how long he would exercise the country's governance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Mela, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, the homeland and future of the next generations come above crosses and elections and micro-political interests. Today we are not voting on either tomorrow's Prime Minister or on the next government. We are voting on the future of our country. That is why I call on you with a sense of responsibility and maturity to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u135	Next speaker, Mr Bluchos Konstantinos, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate here is crucial to our shared life. We have to show, at least, at the level of a large parliamentary majority if we are aware of the difference between nothing and something, between nothing and nothing, that is to say, we have to decide whether we will strengthen our collective existence with a historical perspective or whether we are left to nothing at all. The dilemmas I may put are sound hard and too much. But let me make two recursions, one in the concept dictionary and one in our recent political past. A concept of zeroing, an anarchist ideology, an inappropriate political situation embodies the total denial of any theoretical or practical value. Zeroness rejects and disapproves its environment, condemns it completely, protests and revolts against it. Speaking to plenary, but more so in the memory of Members who either remain in PASOK - KINAL or from the oldest PASOK relocated to SYRIZA, I would say that zeroing can even be distinguished into species: The cognitive zero that refuses any truth. Imagine a government doesn't decide anything, can't decide anything and just think. This is the case with the people's 'those who are sitting'. Ethical zeroing, which is tantamount to absolute winding. Imagine a government that has no beginning, no hope, no will and moves according to the opportunistic attitudes of its leaders. The metaphysical zeroing that denies, not only the existence and meaning of God, but all the logical order in the world. Imagine a government where its members with its president would refuse to adopt at least the slightest political logic between legal and non-legislative, legal and legal. Social zeroing, where all political and social institutions are rejected. Don't go far. A wide-ranging ideological site on the extra-parliamentary Left, which is even represented on famous websites, is what it defends. Historical zeroing, where it is claimed that there is no final purpose or meaning in history, and the only solution is to accept the disaster through the upcoming deadlocks. If, therefore, zeroing coincides with the policy of abusiveness, which, for us, the left-wing populism, for you, is the politically vicious system, of which, of course, you are not going to follow, as Mr Tsipras said, either, or the defence of our representative democracy and the defence of the people of Europe is not more the establishment of the inappropriate and unadulterated - that is, what an obsolete scene - is the formation of an appropriate education and exercise in collectiveism, against the anthropological zeroing of atmospheric safeguards. In other words, the answer is anti-zero education, which raises the total per capita crop! What you are always drugged and by artifacts hide the essentials. The left theory left of the transformed democracy that will highlight the popular will, in any case, overshadows the problem of the value principle. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely difficult, because democracy and the meaning of collectiveness and the principle of participation are not being rebuilt on demand. Resistance to corruption and decline, the dismantling of our worthy backgrounds, is not a matter of institutionalisation, it is a matter of resistance to society, it is a matter of seeking meaning! You are struggling with general passion against a government that has clear axes: worthyness, accountability, dignity. With absolute respect for our collective subject. And because you've been surprised, and you've been deafened, it's probably why you're awkward and irony sometimes and dig up old and fossil slogans of your origin. Over and over, you too! Our problem, you understand it on the basis of the Treaty of lies on the left. Nominally. In other words, you consider the collective subject to extremist pluralism, blatant vocalism, arithmetic representation. For us, it was and it would be worthy. That is why our administration is seeking substantial consensus and not technology-based. What we are announcing in the election is what we are doing post-elections in a relationship of truth and patriotic responsibility. Do you intend to do so, to "lost" the state and that in whose name? Democracy. Our aim is to restore the state to its real role. To serve the general, national interest. Self-destructive behaviours of the past or the future, such as your own sedation with electoral law, do not have a place. This requires guarantors of social cohesion, not solvent institutions, and paralysis and depletion of the democratic principle. Look for a change and you once because the quality of our democracy is controlled and you make a brave endoscopy. You may be surprised by your self-recognition. But I forgot, you naturally claim this way and progressivity and democracy. You speak only of the people and only on behalf of the people, so unnecessary and endoscopy of you. And do you know why the quality of our democracy is vaporized and depleted? Because by displaying excessive tolerance, he remains in his direction. Only when there's direction there's no evaporation. You say: "We are in favour of the simple and uncircumcised analogy that will create cultures of cooperation between political parties" and you are challenging with what you are unsupporting, because, ladies and gentlemen, since, for so many years, the Inner KEI, a large and small coalition, SYRIZA, People's Unity, Liberty Movement and all this, you have such love and such hatred, similar to those between Stalin, Labredi Beria, Trotsky and Bucharin. So since you like-minded and similar, for at least seventy years, can you not agree with each other under the security of your total refusal to rule the country, how can you want to transfer a culture of government co-operation and pluralism? I just wonder: What direction can it take to a multi-popular House? I only have one answer, an unholy situation. And our final question politically is whether you are experiencing this in your absolute inconscientiousness, but this is more likely to refer to the genuine left of monolithicity or - and that is probably the case - you are experiencing it in your absolute hypocrisy, of unrestrained vocabulary, but also to your left-wing career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u137	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Janakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I think that the New Democracy since its beginning has provided written samples and has confirmed not only our worst fears, but also all the dangers we have already highlighted throughout the election period, but also throughout recent years. We've already had conquest cancellations since July, after leaving the memorandum. I think it is clear that with regard to labour and the labour market we are returning to a policy of the International Monetary Fund without the International Monetary Fund, abolishing collective negotiations, total deregulation, abolishing protective regulations for workers, abolishing the legitimate dismissal, abolishing the protection of contract workers, degrading the Labour Inspectorate, reducing the fines for those who violate labour law and labour protection regulations, that is, in fact, a policy which makes employers' carpets promises that this will allegedly lead to incentives for growth, that is, a policy that has never been achieved anywhere and never in the world, has, on the contrary, increased inequality and has caused economic crises. It is the same policy that the two parties in the old political system actually applied throughout the 1990s and 2000s and led to bankruptcy together with other elements. This is a return to the harsh state of the right, with extreme authoritarian behaviour, but also a return to customerism, waste, arrogance and anesthesia. Because look at you, as it turns out, you are more concerned with organising pie cuts worth 12 000, 15 000 and 20,000 euros and buying furniture than to solve the major, important problems of people's daily lives. For the first time, after the black two years 2012-2013, we have drug shortages in hospitals. Yesterday you were reported by the pharmaceutical association. We have a complete turbulence in public health, we have hospitals that do not have the ability to go to surgery. I don't know if you saw the mobilization a few days ago. We have people who can't find beds in intensive ones. We've got the absolute mess as far as the refugee is concerned. We have a treaty in which it was assumed that the New Democracy would not have the ability to go ahead with social policies, but instead would have insisted on the logic of the maps, deals, the service of employers and the service of a political system of power, which was seen from the very beginning how it is organised, as the first bill you brought was the bill for the final state, which, incidentally, has changed twenty-four times to this day. In fact, he organised the terms of political sovereignty, but also back to customerism, which we have seen in a number of management institutions and structures, which, in essence, highlight the way in which you see the state. You can see it as a spoil. The state is a spoil of the one who wins the election. I think that is reflected in today's bill, which abolishes the simple analogue. In fact, the abolition of mere analogy and the return to an enhanced analogue system is a completely literal indication of the logic of the state-grass. What are the main arguments you have used? The first insists on a alleged hypocrisy of SYRIZA for the fact that in the first half of 2015, when it was faced with financial suffocation, when it had to deal with the undermining, which together - you organised with extremes, hard, European and international circles, when it had to deal with the political sabotage, when it was faced with the wild, extreme left parentheses strategy, supposedly did not pass the simple analogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] However, we have asked you - and the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis and Mr Skourletis - the following: Would you vote on the simple analogue if we could bring it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u139	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u140	Never. Therefore, the simple analogue - you answer yourself - would not have applied to the September 2015 elections. So this whole argument is falling apart. It has no political meaning at all. The only thing it serves is to build a supposedly hypocrisy image of the Left. We've been through it. I don't have much time. I would like to go to the second argument, which you are using with an antigenic tropism of thought, the counterfactuals: what would happen in 1993, in 1996, in 2000, if there were simple analogues? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because this way of thinking imposes thin shades and - if you want - it has special features that you cannot handle, you do not understand: Simple analogue changes the whole rules of the game, change the electoral behaviour, change the attitudes of the parties. Therefore, just when you make the case what would happen in 1996 or 2000 or 2004 if the simple analogue were to apply, you should think that they would be completely different and the terms of the political game would be completely different, the correlations would be completely different, the conditions of convergence between the political forces would be quite different. And I'm gonna take a step further. Maybe if it was just analogy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, year after year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Highlands, I've taken a minute. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u143	You've spoken three times, your Chief has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u144	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u145	I haven't spoken to him three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u146	Don't interrupt. We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u147	It's the third time. Your Chief has spoken and you've reached seven minutes. Other colleagues are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u148	As much as it bothers what I say to Mr. Ypsilanti, I'll keep saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u149	Is there a reason now for this tension? I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u150	There's a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u151	The terms of the political game are changing, so this argument is falling apart. I would like to close with a comment on yesterday's, extreme and unequivocal intervention by Mr Gerapetti. For the essence of what he said, we have already answered. But I would like to point out something else that this position shows. It brings back this liberal theory, according to which when the people express themselves freely and reflect their will proportionally, then we are definitely leading to totalitarianism. Democracy equals totalitarianism in the thought of this technocratic liberalism. This proves fear of democracy, hatred of the democracy of the technocratic liberals. And this hatred towards democracy cannot be accepted either by modern societies or by Greek citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u152	Mr Hatzigiannakis Miltiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. We've been here for two days. When I was first elected, I did not expect that in 2019 and 2020 we would hear such things within the Greek Parliament. Yesterday and what we didn't hear! We have heard that the system of enhanced analogy, that is, plus fifty, offers international status to the country, investments, that simple analogue is obsolete. So Germany, Spain or the other countries of Europe, obviously, neither investments can make nor international status. However, in 1920 and 1930, which may have been the case in two or three electoral periods, pre-war, during the inter-war period, the medieval analogy and decision-making - it seems, unfortunately, that we will be voting today with the governmental majority of the New Democracy - that the Greek political system is not ready for the simple analogue system. So, it's not ready for cooperation, it's not ready for dialogue, it's not ready for anything. We either underestimate our value and underestimate the Greek people themselves or something else is hidden. And to speak clearly, you don't care about cooperation or governance. You were interested in the crossroads of power. And as you perceived it until the outbreak of the crisis. So it turns out that ten years of crisis taught you nothing. I've heard incredible things these two days, I didn't expect - frankly - to hear them. Yesterday in the Committee on Budgetary Control - I insist, in the year 2020! - We heard from Members of the government that it was the bad children of Europe who punished us, that it was the people's fault, because we are all co-responsible. In other words, old views or opinions have come back and I hoped that we had overcome them now, and I realised that we have not done an endoscopy, and neither are we interested in endoscopy. We don't care to see how we got here, we don't care to see what we have to do, to show the world that we're changing page. You do not want, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy to change any page. You considered and consider yourself a hereditary right to rule this place. And that's why it's bad for you every time people turn your back and come back with more rabies to overthrow what the other governments achieve. That's the reality. Let's see where you support your view of so-called non-governmentity. You tell us that a system which has not been tested has already failed. And invoke the example of local government, where a very large section, a law we worked for a year and a half - at least - and brought to the vote in the House and implemented in the previous self-government elections, was supposed to bring chaos to local government. That's what you call here. You use it as an example. You have made some changes, but the substance of it, representation within the municipal councils of mere analogous, as they were elected, has not been affected. Tell me how many municipalities have created cyber issues, budget vote, I say. How many? To tell us with data that it was not voted at 80%, at 70%, to say that there was a problem, that people were right, and we were wrong, we were idealists who wanted to apply the simple analogue. You know very well that the world is far more mature than we want to present it, it's much more ready for changes, it's much more ready for government of understanding and all it wants is to look at him in the eyes to tell him the truth. And you're not telling him the truth. You're not telling him that what you're interested in is how you're gonna share with blue children and blue old people. And if it is necessary for governments of simple analogy to cooperate, it's very simple that they don't get enough. It's not enough to share. Some people will be complaining, whether they're blue kids or blue old people. That's what's bothering you in just proportionally. It's nothing else. You want us to go back to a two-partyism, which reached the country where it arrived. Indeed, we are using it as an example, that it was also a very good period of country, with calm investments. What systems have we reached this point of the crisis at this point of our country's destruction which, for ten years, our people have been diagnosing and trying to get out of the last year? Were the systems of mere analogy what they brought us? Good governance, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with which system of governance we shall follow. It has to do with our own dealings with the world, which we look in the face of. What you're saying here, you have to go out and tell people and convince him. And obviously it was also your election commitment. And we have a lot to tell you about things that were your election commitment and you changed them, such as the middle class, which, you were supposed to put a flagship of your own election program and finally 'coals the treasure'. There are too many things you have not implemented. For this, you were indeed committed and did. We don't blame you for retreating. But look at the Greek people and tell the truth. The Conservative Party in our country has always considered power as its own feud. She's malicious every time she doesn't have her and she's trying to make sure she doesn't share her with anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how eighty members of the Traditional Dance Divisions of the Ioannina CAP. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] Mr. Cretan Youth from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, politicians are obliged to serve the citizens, to represent them, to convey their demands and concerns within Parliament and the administrative bodies. The administration, i.e. the government and all the structures that form the state structure, are following a project and planning. A government will be elected by the people on the basis of their programming plan, their vision and their commitments to it. Each party has a specific ideology, liberal or less liberal, socialist and communist. Essentially, the parties express the different tendencies in society and the dynamics they acquire from time to time. Small trends are expressed by the creation of parties, which, as usual, record small percentages and often move to the entry limit or not in Parliament. Exceptions exist, however, such as the Civic Opposition, which began at small rates, but at the outset of the economic crisis it acted as a reservoir with other Central Left and Extreme Left parties, so from a minor opposition party it became government. But this is our democracy. The concepts of representativeness or non-proportionality dominate in the public dialogue. In the game of these words and concepts we can say that proportionality exists. The two hundred fifty MPs are distributed to the parties that manage to enter the House. The 50 seats bonus, if the first party of course receives 40% or more, comes to reward ideological sovereignty, but also the people's trust in the winning party. Here I would like to note something. Is it reasonable for a party that has received 45% or 48% cannot form a government? Is it reasonable for a party that takes the confidence of the overwhelming proportion of Greek citizens to enter negotiation procedures with a party of 3% and at the same time this democratically elected 3% creates an obstacle to the implementation of the sovereign party, the programme that agreed with Greek citizens? Why should a party that the vast majority of the Greek people want to enter into a position-sharing process with a party that the majority of the people do not choose? Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide behind our fingers and pretend. Every one of you, gentlemen of Officerial Response, would like to form a self-powered government. Alas! You would like to carry out the programme yourself and that is why the Greek people would have trusted you. But since you see that our ideology dominates, hears and hears in all layers of society, in all the neighborhoods and groups, you somehow want to raise the issue of the democratic and representativeness of the people. Democracy is guaranteed by every enforcement by the Greek Constitution. But democracy is served by the way in which we are dominated and representativeness regulated by this proposed draft for Members' election, proposing a fairer distribution of the additional seats in the parties. In any case, if we want to avoid the toxic periods that we have experienced, such as the period of coexistence of the New Democracy and the PASOK, when the major opposition and the minor opposition have poisoned political speech and have continued later with their own form of coexistence, we want to serve clearly a electoral system that expresses the majority of the people, a system that rewards the ideological sovereignty and confidence of the people. We want the agreements of truth, of the parties with the Greek citizens, to reward and form self-sufficient stable governments, which will be able to implement their programme with their eyes, but, in the future, not in internal-government frictions and balances. Basically, the electoral system protects democracy and democracy from our personal errors and defects in politicians. Systems and laws exist to protect the many of the mistakes of the few. And the few of us are not worthy of dissatisfaction with the many Greek fellow citizens. That is why we must want strong self-government governments. It is a bill with a look at the future, as I said, which strengthens stability and reduces the possibility of toxic situations that we have experienced in the political scene and background. Our Government, faith in its election programme, proceeded another step forward, one step towards Greece of stability, democracy and essential representativeness. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u156	The next speaker is Mr Balafas John from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, the constitution of our country in Article 4 states that all Greeks are equal to the law. However, according to the New Democracy, there is an issue which does not fall within this logic, in the constitutional order, and that is the electoral law. On the basis of the suggestion made by the government by the majority, my vote with the vote of those supporting New Democracy is not equal, because it does not have the same weight. Paradoxical, but obviously true. Let's take the national elections in July 2019. For every Member of the New Democracy it took fourteen thousand two hundred and fifty-nine votes. For every Member of the SYRIZA twenty thousand seventeen votes and a corresponding number for the Members of the other parties. This means dismantling parliamentaryism - which, in my opinion, the right-wing hypocritically in my opinion often refers to these issues - and in the final analysis, the depreciation of representative democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral system is an element of democratic operation. It is a crucial parameter for the proper functioning of the culture. This, in our view, is attempting to alter it by means of the electoral law being passed with one single argument, the so-called governance, the avoidance of possible intergovernmentality. Democracy gives solutions and imposes new perceptions on governance. Of course you mean, of course, your own prudence. You are stuck in the conception of the legitimate owner of the state, in the perception that a few families and some party mechanisms will control our lives in the vicinity. If you haven't forgotten, I think it's time you forgot. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen where the so-called strong monopartite governments have led us. The country's bankruptcy is your job, that is, one-party governments. The enormous unemployment, the departure of young people abroad, is your job, your one-party governments. But also corruption and the conflict that occurs in various places are strengthened when there is no increased democratic control in the system of power. We all understand that the day-to-day denial of the New Democracy's pre-election commitments, the day-to-day degradation of the right-wing government, internal disputes and party barons lead to the need to pass an electoral law suitable for - let me express it - and let those inner-party doubts and discourage social forces from leading to other political solutions. The society, however, is ignorant of what will happen internally in the New Democracy and in the wider right-wing political area. In our opinion, society - and from data and evidence - now gives all forms of mandate for political compositions and cooperation. Society doesn't want one-party governments. And how is that certified? The very election results of the last elections are a trick for supporters of majority voting systems. Why else does it mean that the first party - whatever party - did not exceed 40% in all of this? And if we count on abstention, the percentage reaches 20% and something. Because a fellow Member spoke for a majority of the citizens otherwise. That's not what this is, of course. Society, gentlemen, gave you a minority rate, greater than others, greater than ours. But you cannot adapt it to your party needs. Today - in our opinion - it is clear that the governments that are really supported by a majority and not simply elected by a minority are strong. The simple analogue guarantees this social mandate for the country's governance. At some point, this little kitten of familydom, barons and besties has to stop. For our part, we are insisting on a simple analogue for reasons of principle and for reasons of democratic legitimacy. We all understand that in a party claiming the majority - such as SYRIZA - the positive system that you are going to vote on may give additional seats to the next elections. With a narrow view - which is not our view - we will not be the losers in the face of this electoral system. I repeat on the basis of a close - which is not our visa. But we'll all be lost if we don't understand what society wants. For our part, we do not want false parliamentary seats. We want to measure our boot according to what the Greek people give us, according to their mandate, not according to our needs. And I'm finishing up. Mr Mitsotakis is now announcing unrealisticly double elections to burn the simple analogue. Truly, it is the devaluation of the top democratic process, since, according to the government, we will go to elections not to elect the Greek Parliament, not to see which political forces and with which programme they will govern the country, but with the sole aim of canceling a democratic law. That's the reality. The political forces of our country will, however, be called upon to prove - and I believe they will - their maturity and their ability to disarm society, moving forward to progressive shocks that the people themselves suggest and point out. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against this electoral system as an abominable one. This is an electoral system - deformative lens, which one will grow and minimize everyone else. Above all, however, it will alter the people's mandate, it will translate what the people want into what a small party and a few families want. We are voting against your legislation and we are saying that we will re-establish the simple analogue as soon as political and social conditions allow it. And that won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, too. We'll take it easy. I'm sure of that. Mr. Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments which repeat monotonously - I can say - are two: firstly, because we did not legislate simply proportionally in the first half of 2015. The answer is very quick. Because you left us only EUR 500 million in the funds. We didn't have to pay wages. We have fought a serious battle with the lenders - partners - blackmailers and we have tried to save the country. We've led to a compromise. We gave the opportunity, or rather not the opportunity - our obligation - to the Greek people to decide again who will manage the agreement. He gave us this opportunity and we took the country out of the memoirs. And in the first semester, since we started ruling, in October, we legislated the simple analogue. I'm saying it's about ending this little fairy tale. You are using - what Janakopoulos said before - that what would happen if in 1993, in 1996, was the simple analogue. The answer is according to the old joke. "If my grandmother had wheels, it would be a bike." And I say this as follows: The establishment of mere proportionality changes social and political behaviour. It changes the way the voter thinks, creates new correlations in the election of MPs and the distribution of the power of political forces and imposes or does not impose shocks, alliances, partnerships. If your ideas are so dynamic and widespread in the wide popular layers, why are you afraid to oppose? Because you know that you are and are expressing a minority social power which, for certain reasons, took the parliamentary majority at the time. So listen, here's the thing. We want the simple analogue because we want to express a broad social alliance that starts from the new generation - which we want to stop immigrating - reaches farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, who are trying to sell their products and not eat them, reaches the wage earners in the public and private sectors who want to regain decent wages and working conditions, reaching the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship which must not have a 'political tooth' in order to obtain any loan from which Stournaras bank governs, which is time to divest and leave wherever it is. We want a social alliance with the mind and those layers, which can design another future for Greek society. This social alliance we want to express ourselves. It requires cooperation, it requires shocks, it requires not parallel but a converging path of political projects that the political parties express in the Greek Parliament. You dominately express the 3% urban order with 4%, which has its core a hundred families, who after 1948-1949 rule the country and suck over 50% of the turnover in every economic activity that exists in Greece. You are expressing a social alliance that is what I said earlier, plus a large layer of senior civil and private executives who get a share of the pie from the pie that accounts for them through the allocation of funds in the public and private sectors. You are expressing a violation of entrepreneurship, which through the political 'tooth', the coverage by the Member, the Minister can do its jobs, disperse public money and eventually go bankrupt. And you are expressing some other social strata, which cannot envision a wider change of Greek society, the customers you have in local networks and especially in the province, which have been tied to their future by the service of MPs and this political staff. This social alliance needs a reinforced analogue in order to be able to govern. And you know what you want with the enhanced analogue? You want her to be able to do what you have already shown, Mr Levanne. You've finally given up a state of government, and you've built a government in Maximos that controls the flow of money. This is the ultimate state. You have been abducted and excelled and appointed a shuttle of "blue babies" and "blue grandparents" to whom you tripled and the wages. Do you remember what orgy you were doing for the very fewer posters and partners that the SYRIZA government had? Now your favorite media why don't they say that your three-fold posters, youths and old men, get three-fold wages and that the cost is over EUR 40 million a year? You dealt with the refugee, and you screwed up. It took you six months to understand that you had to establish a Ministry of Migration Policy, after you changed five responsible and chiefs. You've dealt with crime. All you did was duo Chrysohoidis tickling the far right reflexes of a audience in some occupations that offered both social activity and shelter and food to excluded ones. And last night, if I'm not mistaken, forty cars were burned down in the Lentanade. Where's the action of the great Greek police? You were exquisite and balanced the degrees of the Greek universities with the purchased degrees of private colleges obviously in a swimming with the owners of these colleges, who came too "give me, bar, and make my field in order to win tomorrow - the day after tomorrow". You have opted for a growth and an increase in basic wages to twice the annual growth rate. Now you've swallowed it vague. Brutsi legislated the freedom of redundancies by abolishing the reasoned dismissal. It undermines the question of the expansion of collective agreements, does what BSE tells him and does not give any increase. That's what you've done. That's why you want the enhanced proportion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have orchestrated investments and new works etc. Where are they? Because my "friend" Mr. Georgiadis would start the Greek at ten days. The dust in Moschato is about to choke us, and that's where I live. We are almost drowned by the dust that is lifted by the bulldozers who have entered the Greek media. Who's gonna run the casino? That's all you're gonna do with a loan from the bank, not his own money. I'm the only job I've ever seen there in the Ministry of Development is that you gave a Karathanassis - sort of that - who owes 1,5 million euros to the Greek Sugar Industry of EUR 480,000 the operation of the two factories. That development I saw. Development of rags and deceivers. In short, the simple analogue came to stay. The next elections will take place on a simple analogous basis. Whenever they do, either May, which is thought of you and thoughts like that - before we can reconstruct, etc. - either in no time or in three years, whenever you do, it will be such an effect of your policies on the social consciousness that elections with a simple analogue will show up government and you will return to where you belong, i.e. in the time of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and seven educational attendants from the Lamia Music School. The House welcomes you and wishes you long and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, a group of thirty-seven students and three educational escorts from the University of Delaware of the United States. The House welcomes you. Good progress!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u162	Mr Lebanese has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u163	For the standard, in yesterday's legislative improvements to the seventh element, the legislation said that it should be replaced by the words '2, 4a and 5' and the right is '2, 3 and 4a'. It was the printer's demon. It doesn't have any change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Kefalidou, Dramino from the Change Movement, to be written in the Minutes, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Secretary-General, Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that last night Parliament experienced a very nice atmosphere of national unity and consensus. How long did it last? One day. It seems once again that the government is content with the slightest impressions. It suffices to give her the impression of a lack of coexistence with the centre-left and progressive party in the major national issues. It offers her the glow and fascination that she never had and could not obtain. When it comes to the time of the act, she recalls atabistically and refers to us in her election booklet with a nicknamed rectification of the system in place before SYRIZA decides to plant the mine of mere analogy. And to hide the retrieval of right-wing conservatives, which are in her DNA, she suggests a electoral system close to what the Change Movement has proposed since 2018. Is that so? No, of course not. But who reads the high letters under the vulgar titles? This draft law imitates the architecture of the proposal presented by the Change Movement since 2018, even wearing it as a fashionable coat with all the complacency of one - with questionable - self-powered right-wing government. In fact, however, it repeats the robbery bonus of the fifty seats provided by the Pavlopoulou Law. How does a government, which at the bottom - also includes key positions in ministries with deep roots in the field of the centre-left, bring an electoral law so conservatively? Your strategy, despite the fine words of democratic sensitivities, national understanding and other such wishes, seems clear: Creating a strong blue government in the footsteps of the past decades. Approach to more democratic governance is only the flare and freshness powder with a duration equal to an instant picture of ilostrum cover. The New Democracy's proposal leads to a self-government government of around 37%. Furniturers with forced self-response or strong co-operation governments? That was the government's dilemma. He chose the stalked one. An oldly tested recipe of governments of another era. That, if you want a few words, is the choice of the government with whatever it puts on. How can it be fairer and more proportionate and more efficient the electoral system where the 50 seats bonus leads to overlapping government-majority and divisive logic? A fairer and more functional than what? Of the mere analogy voted by the SYRIZA Government - which may seem analogous, but is it completely dysfunctional, as it leads to insolence - or ultimately compared to the robbery precedent of New Democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has not discussed at all. Ask for a vote on the electoral law, without much - a lot of words. In every slander it states that it does not want interlocutors in its electoral planning. Micropolitically this may sound and make sense if anyone judges the election results of July. There's no need for interlocutors. But doesn't she really need it? In an environment of international instability and national enormous challenges for the future of the country, can the government be content with the umbilical review? It is a question of democracy, but also of stability, conditional on each other. These are the main coordinates for an election law. The systems of purely analogous historically have proved how easily they canceled democracy. It is clear that the premium of ten seats given to the party that the people first elected in the elections is fully compatible with the democratic principle. On the other hand, the abuse of this possibility is tantamount to the very democratic basis of the civil society. Based on the pre-SYRIZA electoral system, the first party, regardless of the percentage, is premiumed with fifty seats. With the current government's proposal, 50 seats will be given to the first party in step if it reaches 37.5% of the electorate's votes. The difference in the system proposed today is very small. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, narrow-minded and conservative attempted to vote for the law applicable to the elections of 7 July 2019, in order to achieve broad acceptance as well as with the dubious constitutionality that the government has brought, excluding parties coalitions from the bonus of seats, alone reveals her fearful face. Nor is the law more reasonable than it can be done and ultimately, nor will it help you achieve a balanced self-reliance in elections when it comes to it. You are trying today to impose a system that will blackmail the citizens' vote in the future and lay the foundations for future weak governments of a people's minority. You know well that these governments are unable to move forward with the changes that the country needs, withholding for the future the deadlocks of the recent past. This logic and this proposal the Change Movement and reject it and vote against it. And don't be confused, gentlemen of the government. Don't mess with us all. Don't equate SYRIZA to the Change Movement. So, in our own proposal, we have strengthened transparency and directness in the relationship between the citizen and those representing him in two ways: the fragmentation of the major constituencies and the maintenance of a party's 3% entry limit, preventing the fragmentation of our political system and government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The speedy retreat of the culture of democratic dialogue, so advertised by the government, is certainly the internal immaturity of the New Democracy party. At the same time, it brings us all facets with the same relentless political issue, which concerns all modern democracies, that the fragmentation of modern society into groups based on social entrepreneurialism - where the position of dialogue is battle by any means - and the logic 'or end them or end us'. The disastrous consequences of toxic political climate and populism in the functioning of democracy and we have seen them and lived them. Especially here in Greece, no one can portray as unsuspecting. In the modern political context, it is not the opinions and their free expression that are absent, it is not the lack of proposals. It is the ears to hear them, that we find it hard to learn to respect each other in conditions of intense friction and confrontation. It is that we remain incapable of turning conflicts into a constructive dialogue, which will lead to shocks through conflicts. It is regrettable that after ten years of crisis in our country, which has been tested by every possible political proposal, in the hope of avoiding the abnormal landing in reality and in conditions of truth, it is regrettable that we have not yet learned to discuss without grief, with a sense of risk that our interlocutor can be right and not just us. This stubborn refusal to recognise the reasoning of the other state's arguments stirred up the political system in a state of blindness and hostility, avoiding even the logical arguments of others, just to defend an imaginary charm. I close by paraphrasing Steinmeier: We all hold a piece of Greece in our hands. When we realize that, we will eventually accept that what unites us is far more than what separates us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. We continue with "woman's perfume". Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law proposed by the Government for the election of Members establishes a transparent, fair and certainly effective electoral system which respects the popular will and allows for pre-election or post-election cooperation with a number of seats similar to that of simple proportional, apart from the first two parties. At the same time, it closes the way to the electoral system introduced by Law 4406/2016, the so-called simple analogue, which, as I will explain, neither can it be regarded as suitable for our country. This is what the history of the Greek state teaches us by recommendation. As stated in the explanatory statement, Greece reached the 21st century by holding around 85% of its democratic national elections without proportional electoral system. So the simple analogue is not necessary, gentlemen of SYRIZA, for our country. The same, of course, applies to many other democratic countries, which are constantly applying other electoral systems. In our post-government period when a proportionate system was passed, this became clear for reasons of political opportunism. A characteristic example is Law 1847/89, a variation of the mere analogous with the notorious clause of " plus one" built to make it difficult for the New Democracy to form a government. Thus, in the period of 1989-90, however, the country was led to three elections within ten months and experienced the mandate of weak co-operation governments, which despite the participation of the major parties and the leading figures of their leaders, the late Jannis Jandetakis and Xenophontas Zolotas, were able to survive only for a few months. Then the Nea Democrat Republic of Constantine Mitsotakis had needed 46.2% to reach the hundred fifty seats. Look, over 46% for just a hundred fifty seats and all of this, not even with genuine simple analogues, which will have even worse effects. That is why she was exploited by SYRIZA - ANEL, for reasons of feasibility. As was the case with Law 1847/89, which was voted to prevent the New Democracy of Constantine Mitsotakis, and Law 4406 was voted to prevent the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Nevertheless, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has led us to four net election victories in 2019 and has firmly led Greece to a new era, because the democratic will of the people is not limited by any electoral law. Another example of the disastrous consequences accompanying the simple analogue is the administrative deadlock in which the municipalities and regions of the country were found last May, following the results of the local government elections, due to the mere proportionalness of Law 4555/2018. Fortunately, however, our government intervened immediately and prevented the dismantling of the municipalities and regions, unlike the previous government, which has repeatedly attempted to exploit the myths cultivated for the simple analogue, without even fully supporting it. Let us not forget that SYRIZA has arrived until he changed his statute to claim the bonus of the fifty seats he won twice in 2015. Let us also remember that in the interpretative statement presented by SYRIZA, in its proposal for the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution, an electoral system is considered proportionate since the final percentage of the distribution of seats does not deviate more than 10% from the total Greek percentage of each combination. How simple analogous is this 10% deviation, that is, up to thirty seats in the three hundred, plus another ten to twenty seats shared by the parties within the House by parties that do not catch the 3% threshold, which is, of course, required to enter the House and are rightly maintained by all governments for thirty years? But that's all. Note that even 10% of the deviation of seats proposed by SYRIZA, for what it calls a mere analogue, is also covered by previous election law 3636/2008 with the bonus of fifty seats. Similar conclusions apply to the previous one, L.3231/2004, the bonus of the forty seats. In both these laws, the distribution of seats has produced almost the same result as the simple analogue, with a difference of one to two seats for each small party. There was only a significant difference in the power of the largest parties in favour of the first. Of course even these infamous fifty bonus seats are virtual, because the first party would take much of them anyway. In any case, it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the parliamentary parties receive more seats than their electoral rate, even with the version of the mere proportionality introduced by Law 4406, but also with the proposal for a constitutional revision of the SYRIZA. So what simple analogue are we talking about here? In fact, n.4406 is just an entrepreneurial arrangement of SYRIZA, which acts as a time bomb ready to shut up in the 2023 elections. We therefore deactivate him with respect to the people's will and the needs of the country, which leave no room for experimentation. At the same time, we are introducing some necessary improvements in relation to the bonus, making constructive use of its experience so far. The main problem was the performance of the entire bonus in the first party, regardless of its percentage, as shown in the national elections and 2012 and 2015. The new law only gives bonus if the first combination exceeds 25% and this is staggered, demanding 40% for the maximum of fifty seats. I would remind you that SYRIZA in 2015 took advantage of the 50-seat bonus at around 35%, not 40% taken by New Democracy last July, but 35%. Ladies and gentlemen, in our New Democracy our pursuit is sincere and creative political cooperation, not opportune transactions with a view only to the predominance of power. This is obvious, Mr Polakis, in the very composition of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and in its day-to-day operation. It is also clear, of course, that the provisions of the new electoral law we are proposing. For all these reasons, I recommend to the House that this bill be voted on after his debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, too. I would like to ask you to keep up with the time and not to limit time to five minutes, because it is absolutely essential for the six o'clock to start the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u169	No, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u170	Mrs. Jufi, please. You're also a Castorian, you're an expert. You can tell it all in five minutes. From here I see many experiences, Mr. Triantafylides, you, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos. If we don't take time to five minutes, you'll keep the time. We'll have time by six o'clock. In doing so, you will help our countryside colleagues to be able to travel. If we don't die for each other, we're all dead. Mr. Gülekas has the floor, who has an important appointment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Mrs Tyridos and my colleague Mr Athanasios for giving me their position. There is an important date I have to make as President of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia is here and I'll have a meeting with him soon. I apologise, then, for coming before me. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at things historically. Since Greece has been organising a modern state elections, i.e. from 1843 until now - we have been talking about genuine elections, as the majority rapporteur, Mr Ypsilant, pointed out in his original report - fifty-three elections have been organised. Of these forty-five have been made by a majority system and eight in any form proportional. What do I mean by that? There's a regular practice. I have heard them say that 'you know, we are reacting to the analog system, because we believe that we can rightly be in power'. No, ladies and gentlemen. There is a clear ideological and political discrepancy in your positions and our positions. So why should your own system be the fairest and the system that we support is not fair? I don't get it. You say that this should be the case, but the analogous implementation of a electoral law in how? In the way it gives self-reliable shapes or in any case, it enables Greece to rule. You know, all this intelligence that we will change culture in the Greek people, that we will change culture in the political system and we will have partnerships, let me say that it runs counter to a fundamental argument that consensus and cooperation are not imposed by laws, ladies and gentlemen. Or there is a possibility of finding a common place, a common course for a number of parties and doing a co-operation - but that is not what a law imposes on us - or on the other hand we cannot. Let me remind you that by this law, the current, the Pavlopoulou law - which is the longest-lived law than post-policy - we have so far had governments of cooperation. Your government, which actually governed the place by July 6, 2019, was not a co-operation government almost until the end, a SYRIZA and ANEL government? Tell me a little: What were your ideological affinity with the Independent Greeks? Why did you pursue this combination of views and ultimately the coup d'état? Clearly because you wanted to be in power and be able to rule. Another case of cooperation with this law, which has not necessarily been imposed, is the cooperation of three parties before - remember it - New Democracy, PASOK and Democratic Left. There were partnerships without this law of proportionality. So it's not here that you're right or we're wrong. Let me tell you something else, ladies and gentlemen. A party that accounts for 47%, that is, about one Greek citizen voting for it, is it fair not to be able to form a government? With your own law, this law brought by you in a mere analogy, in 1993 PASOK had gathered 46% more than that. How many seats would he take with the law you brought in? One hundred and forty-three seats. He couldn't rule. A party, which had touched about 47%, one in two citizens preferred it, with your law, could not rule. Should I remind you of something else, the Koutsogiarcha law, that punk law? Constantine Mitsotakis, with 48% and a hundred fifty MPs, was looking to find a "loan" MP to form a government after the third election campaign? Uh, no. This is a phenomenon that cannot be continued for us. That is why we are saying that we do not want these bitter lessons from the previous political situation to continue with. You insist on that. That's your right. Our right, however, also to insist on the correctness of our own arguments. After all, let's look at each other's intentions. What did Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy say when you brought the law? He said, "We disagree completely. When we come to power, we will change the law." What does Kyriakos Mitsotakis do from the first months of the country's governance by the New Democracy, by the current government? It's changing the law. When do we have elections? Elections are in 2023. It changes the law three and a half years ago, so that no one knows three and a half years later who will favour or not. But what's that? It is political dignity and political honesty. I told you, if we disagree politically, it's everyone's right. This is happening in democracy. Alas, we don't have to agree. But don't blame us for bad intentions, that - you know - we're almost used to being in power and we can't be any other way. Because all the things I say to you, precisely, show our political honesty. They show a attitude of political honesty, which requires from today, three and a half years before the established elections, that we change the electoral law and say "we tell the Greek people and we commit that by this law we will go to elections". If then the New Democracy will be the first party, if it is another party, it will show this three and a half years after each of us's political practice, what we will tell the Greek people, and finally how the Greek people will rank us. But - I think - we should not ignore that, that is to say, politically we are honestly coming to change the law. Let me say that, ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking about intentions and I am closing down with that. Because the Minister, the State Secretary, spoke about the law. A lot of people spoke. I will tell you this: You who are cut off on the simple analogue, why have you not changed the law when you became government? Why were you elections in 2015, in September, with the law in force, namely by the law of Pavlopoulou? You took the fifty bonus seats and then came in 2016, where you now saw that your lead had begun to get lost and then, you changed the law and went to the analogy. Why have you people defended mere analogy not changed him from the first moment? It would be political honesty to say: "We just took authority with the mandate of the Greek people. We change the electoral law." So, we would go in 2015 with the simple analogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u172	Would you vote for him then?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u173	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u174	You did not, because very simply, ladies and gentlemen, if you had done so in 2015, you would not have been a government. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u175	Would you vote for him then?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Philly, please! He's not gonna answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Philly, why didn't you change the law? You know, here, there are no arguments. As you changed him in 2016, you could have changed him since the first half of 2015, before the September elections. You didn't. Now, everything else is a pretext. Let us have our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Giuleka. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet. They don't need any comments. Mrs. Tyloridis has the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Kastoria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want the credibility of the political system to be restored, we must learn from the experience of the ten-year crisis in which - let us not forget - self-government. We should, therefore, prove that we have learned from the past and should aim to create a strategy through dialogue, so that our people can live in peace and preparation. If this is to be done, there is a need for dialogue, criticism and participation by everyone in the development policy making, the productive reconstruction of the civil relationship with administration, the safeguarding of the social state, the democratic structures of power, respect for the environment, the constant fight for the defence of our national rights and human rights. So in the face of this necessity and these programmes, who must have a say from the political system? Should a political force, whatever it is, come from the alteration of the people's will? Is it a strong government that comes from the 50-seat bonus and is it a one-party bonus? Or is it the strong government that has a strong popular root? We should all fight in these new international regional and internal social conditions to send out the message that the political forces of the place can cooperate on the basis of programming agreements. The debate on the electoral law should therefore be such a debate today. It should be a debate on the quality of the democracy we want. Instead, at the core of the electoral law brought by the government it is clear that it uses it as a lifesaving of the establishment. It is an unfair electoral system, which does not correspond to the popular mandate with the forces in Parliament, which insults popular sovereignty, which creates citizens insecurity in choosing their vote. However, we all see and understand the micro-party pursuits that are not related to the needs of the citizens and the needs of society. The electoral law obeys the tiny-party feasibility of the government's majority. It serves an elitist perception of our politics and democracy. He despises the ordinary citizen. It despises what many privately call lautziko and keeps him a lower degree of destiny. This contempt for our people and this arrogance is the operative cause of rejecting simple proportionally. You want to act self-poweredly, because you think power is a spoil for you and that the state is your feud. With the cover of insolence you oppose justice, equality and popular sovereignty. But insolence is a matter for the political forces to resolve it. And they need mature political forces and not political forces that move in their own interests. Instead, you want the election result to be altered. And a political force that differs from the immediately next 0.1%, for example, to take the bonus of additional seats. And, as an argument, what is going on in local government. Many of you referred to the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Today's Mayor of Thessaloniki, in the first round of elections, took 14.93%. So what do you want? Do you want 14% to shape the policy of the country's second largest municipality, ignoring 86%? You want this democracy? That's what you want. And that's what you're doing. And - to God! - it does not appear that there is a question with the mayor we wish to see a 'good success'. So you do not want to cooperate at a central level or at a local level. Because you want the beginning of one. And you think you're authorities. This is your understanding, not now, but for decades. This concept of decades has led us to this situation. The country - it says - cannot be governed by dialogue. You also have the political hypocrisy to try to convince the Greek people that the enhanced analogy is a supreme patriotic duty. So the highest democratic right of our people is at risk of governance, because you want to operate out of control. That is why you are also moving the double-election scenarios that directly offend the crisis of our people. And don't repeat why we didn't bring the simple analogue in the first semester. If we brought it, the elections in September 2015 would be done by your own system, and you today would not be a government. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. So we choose the simple analogue because we do not feel superior to anyone. But beware, neither do we feel. In our common future we want equality of vote and respect for popular sovereignty. Because power comes from the people and he must serve. And despite the terrain at last, no matter what you do, the people will decide, but hope you will not be trapped in your own methods. Governments must rely on a real social majority for this and we are voting against your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. Mr. Nassos Athanasios from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I consider eerie to be inappropriate - so it is called in the history of the European Spirit by Panagiotis Kanellepoulou - that attitude that we should be engaged in conflicts. That is why I am giving this explanation because I am going to address three accusations. The first category is, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Ministers, as far as the analysis of the data is concerned, you are very far behind. In the time of coronavirus you came today to talk about malaria. The second category is that you're impassable. You don't even read the top of your line. And the third category is that you don't understand the main thing. We need to keep an eye on the details. They're saying and they're right that the devil is hiding in the details, but yesterday the details made us lose sight of the target. What are you doing here, gentlemen of the New Democracy? You're here to murder the simple analogue. Our constitutional order allows it. So here you go. But do us a favor not to act as an innocent dove at the time you stretch the bow. Less hypocrisy and less challenging would make your philosophics less ugly. There are two points of view here. We have heard it from many Members of Parliament in the New Democracy. Cooperation is 'black'. How alienated, if not ill, can it be a man who characterizes co-operation? The second view is that we will cooperate or die as a country. The Greek people will be invited to choose. One view, then, is that we should go back to the past. I have also heard from young people who have thus demonstrated that they are old, even though they are young, to talk about the law of Pavlopoulou, about the law of Scandalidis, about the eight legislation on elections, systems from post-mopulation. Go backwards. Has anyone gone from Israel to Norway and from Finland to Malta to study the electoral systems and see what is most appropriate? To see that, in a state of war, cooperating parties can achieve things for us, for our mentality? One view, then, is that we should go back to laws of 20 years ago. But there is another point of view and I would ask you to pay attention. I will base my thought on a cut in speech by your former President and former Prime Minister. Speaking at the City of London, Mr Karamanlis mentioned for himself "the global challenges facing us can test us all. They have at least one common point.’ Watch out. "No country, no government, how much rather political party can deal with it alone. It is time we all sat together, focus on real issues, learn to discuss and above all work together." I couldn't agree more with him. This is the promoted thought, not your provincialism. That's the right view. Talk about the ruler's twilight, please. Let me say it: 'The twilight of the leaderships. No country says "no government, let alone any political party, can face the challenges that come". I don't think you've read that. So you don't understand the main thing. That mere analogy is a need, I repeat need. It's not an idea. It is a need, and in this need I think you should bend. The simple analogue is the way to salvation, it is the way that can give us a way out today, lead us together, compel us to take the necessary pill that will prevent otherwise certain opposition. But you're afraid of what can save us. You think we are not worthy of this political culture, because your party - the dominant leadership, that is - cannot reach that level. But we must be worthy of this culture. Otherwise we will pay a very expensive price. We had the following phenomenon. As soon as the new President of the Republic was voted, Mr. Mitsotakis came out here and said something like "we have to agree, we have to agree on national issues". Correct me for how he said it. You find the verb. Today you're canceling this. Who said that? The one who gave a historic example of fragmentary populism on the issue of the Ambassadors' agreement. Who said we should get to know each other? The one who, two days after the election of the President of the Republic, brings this electoral law which will only unite. It's gonna break up, it's gonna split up. I won't chew my words. In my view, when you say cyberdynamicity, you mean "Necturality". Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the President of a pheasant party cannot be either a saddock or a heroic. He must be a Pharisee. But consider a little looking forward, not looking at what happened ten years ago, twenty or thirty years ago. In his analysis, Mr Kostas Karamanlis is right when he talks about the twilight of the leaderships, when he says any country, how much more can no party alone face the major problems that are coming? I don't think you'd have read it. You want to be in the past. But the past does not repeat itself as a prank, it repeats itself as a tragedy. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-two students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Amalada High School. The House welcomes you. Happy birthday, good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA and the beautiful Volos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has opened up a multifaceted front. The way in which he manages issues such as the economy, immigration, labour rights, foreign policy, education is an identifiable part of the New Democracy. In which area do you think you can celebrate, ladies and gentlemen? The Prime Minister promised to scan through the development of all the obstacles to bureaucracy, implying with it the so-called ideological obsessions of the Left for social justice, transparency, dignity and labour rights. But here, we congratulate you. Unfortunately, you've kept your word, you're certainly scanning. Ladies and gentlemen, the results of your first half of the year do not leave many questions unanswered. Your repeated mistakes and failures, unfortunately, will leave signs in the future and I would call them comedian if they did not concern the lives of thousands of our fellow citizens, such as the recent closure of the three clinics in hospitals in our country. But let us move on to the issue. Do you think that the institutions of democracy should serve you and deposit an electoral law cut and stitched at what suits you? You are effectively canceling the constitutional requirement of equality of vote for citizens, on the pretext of governance. Election systems must serve the modern needs of society and the guaranteed constitutional principles of justice and equality of vote, with a view, of course, and commonly accepted, that voters choose with their vote primarily party and, secondly, candidates. This purpose is served only by the proportional system, since the votes in this regard are equal to their result. You give a 50 seat bonus to the first party, trespassing the voters' choice. Is that how you understand the management of the commons? But what are you really afraid of? Afraid of cooperation, fear of control of decisions. You think the state is your feud and you're shaking the co-formulation. You treat the parties in a different way, you break the Constitution and you distinguish the coalition of parties from the autonomous parties, as if they were not voted on by programmes. With all this it is easy to understand that it frightens you of the great progressive movement of citizens, which calls for more democracy and participation. Fear of what it looks like SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, and I'd say you're doing well. Ladies and gentlemen, you were not ready to rule, although you want to prove otherwise. You were just ready, as you used to, to do all the favours to employers and fake investors, to banks, to oliggers of media and press. Your inadequacy appears at every step of your life, from the anhydrous journey to the United States of America, to the exclusion of the country from the Berlin Conference, from your statement on national issues and your fear of foreign policy. By taking advantage of the consensus in the vote on the results, where there was a pretext for raising the equality of vote for the citizens, you proceeded on your own, with the Greek Solution, of course, in changing the electoral law, while the whole of the Opposition is against. Colleagues of the Government, you are constantly in favour of the people voting in the July elections. But we should inform you here that the people have voted for the rest of the House and a strong opposition to it so that it can control you. You are caring for the citizens of the country differently, you show maximum immaturity, and you prove you are coming from the old. As of the past, the wretched, unscrupulous and dangerous positions of your ministers and officials are coming, which render Hitler's establishment to power in mere analogue and at the same time in their public positions, demonize the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, the next elections will take place on a simple analogous basis. The convergence policies on a programme basis that will form a new, progressive political and social majority will form a government with the participation of the country's left-wing and progressive forces. Your real face, gentlemen of the New Democracy, we know. Now, of course, you're advertising it with a lot of arrogant arrogantness. Along with us, however, the Greek people are now seeing it slowly and you can be sure that the country will not allow it to be binding on the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. I'm going to give the floor to Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the electoral law and the electoral system, we can only discuss and reflect collectively, something which unfortunately has not been done by the government's proposal, for the last decade of the crisis and the memoranda and the deep consequences it has had, not just the economic and social consequences, but the very democracy, the institutions, the very conception which citizens have of politics. In the context of their confidence in the policy and the legitimacy of the institutions, in their understanding, as they have been charged - and rightly so - with the crisis, its failure to prevent, its management and, of course, the logic of the one-way which has been imposed in previous years. We cannot isolate the debate on the electoral system from this collective viewpoint. Today we must strengthen democracy in all its dimensions, restore democratic participation and strengthen the expression of popular sovereignty. The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, said this morning, a shocking figure, that more than a million four hundred thousands of our fellow citizens, from the start of the crisis to the present day, have completely left the electoral process. We are not talking about the European elections, of course. There is huge abstention throughout Europe. Therefore, in this context, SYRIZA dealt with during the period of governance, not only to address the economic and social consequences and lead the country out of the memoranda, but also to how it could institutionally and through institutional changes, strengthen this democracy and participation. One was the introduction of the simple analogy, in 2016, which was also a permanent position and principle of the Left, which gained much more urgency and content in the specific phase that our country was going through, within the memoranda and the crisis. But it wasn't just that change. It was also the vote in the seventeen, which has come to encourage participation and confidence in young people, that was the fragmentation of the large regions, a subject which we had decades been concerned with at the National Representation, so that the relationship between politics and the citizens of these large regions and reducing the influence of various extra-institutional centres. It was, of course, also a series of constitutional changes which, unfortunately, most were unable to find the appropriate majority in the Revision House. So it was an integrated proposal and approach, based on its analysis of the period and needs. Our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, like our parliamentary representative, Mr Janakopoulos, made a detailed review of the anti-democratic and anti-constitutional aspects of the draft law on the electoral law brought by the New Democracy. I shall confine myself, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly to the four basic arguments which we have heard constantly repeated for two days, despite the answers given by so many previous colleagues and colleagues. The first argument, which was regrettable, was the demonization of the mere analogy that arrived at its peak yesterday with Mr Gerapitritis, who in two words - although an academic teacher - from this Step told us that the mere analogue brought Hitler to power. This, you know, is not just a simplistic attempt, but it is finally coming through this opportunity - as I think - because I do not want to believe that he believes it deeply within him - a review of the history he has and other consequences. He comes to obscure the real causes that led to the rise of Nazism and Fascism in the mid-war period. And this is gaining even more negative weight at a time when neoliberalism, crisis and memoranda led to a head up after many decades, neo-fascist and extreme right parties across Europe. Unfortunately, we have seen the same result in our country for a period. Secondly, insolence and non-stability. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to fool ourselves, when we arrived at the crisis and bankruptcy, the simple analogue was not the case in the past few decades. That was not the problem, the electoral system, which led the country there. It was clearly political choices, economic and social conditions in Greece and because of the international crisis. Likewise, the Samara government, although it was a two-party government, had no cohesion problem. That wasn't her problem. Its problem was the deadlock to which it came, as it could not deal with the negotiation at that time and close the evaluation, which forced it to be chosen to accelerate - then - the presidential election and all those who followed. Third argument, we hear it all the time, and it's about whether SYRIZA had the law of mere analogy in 2016. I think the matter is exhausted. The last speaker, Mr Paulakis, referred to this, but I cannot help it. In the first half of the year there were no conditions - and you know very well that there were no consensus to discuss the electoral law. There was not even a tradition here - receipt at the Maximos Mansion, not to mention all the other conditions. After the September 2015 elections, which was now a government that fought to implement the third programme in constant negotiation with the institutions in order to get out of the memorandum, it brought in ten months, as you brought in seven months, a draft electoral law on simple proportionality. Therefore, this argument does not apply and I do not understand what is added to its continuing repetition. I shall conclude with the last argument we have heard from the ministers. We heard this at first in a way of blackmail, that if we do not agree, you will go into double elections - so you told us a few months ago - in order to burn the simple analogue. Now you come back and say that the next elections will be transitional. I would like to say this, and I am closing down with this, Mr President, that the Greek people are never a given, and citizens are not a sheep, they understand. In the next elections, which will take place simply proportionally, the Greek people will judge the New Democracy Government for neoliberal policies, for the destruction of labour rights and the social state, health, education and all these consequences. It is precisely these consequences that will give us the opportunity to express a new progressive majority on our part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. The vote will take place at 6 p.m. However, at 17.00 hours the Minister has asked to speak. And from what Mr Spirtz informed me, the rapporteurs will also answer the Minister. I would ask that we be consistent in time for some people not to pay her. Towards the end is Mr. Barkas, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Catherides, who is from now on, and it's a shame not to speak. Please pay very close attention to time. I will give the floor now to Alexandros Triantafylides of SYRIZA, who I believe will not exploit our friendship and love.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the top issue of the credibility of the political system where the purpose does not justify the means but the means, the electoral law in this case, determines the worthy burden of purpose. A deep crisis and an inconsistency in the consciousness of a large part of our people, the citizens who are absent from the electoral procedures, because they believe that the governments concerned are cutting off and taking action on the electoral system. In this context, let us highlight our thoughts and thoughts, as we shall be voting, from the Council of Europe's point of view, which encodes and indicates the principles and values of European culture in the democratic functioning of the institutions. I am tabling the text of Rapporteur, which does not come from the socialist or left-wing party, but from the alliance of liberals and democrats, Hendrick Dames, who, dated 8 January 2020, defines in his conclusions: ‘Defining minimum standards for electoral systems to provide the basis for free and fair elections’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I do not want - and I do not have the time - to mention the whole thing. I shall mention from the conclusions 73 and 74, precisely to identify our own thoughts, the thought of SYRIZA. He therefore says to the Council of Europe, expressing the average of the perception: 'Some systems in Europe give parties who have defeated parliamentary majorities that are far beyond...' - Minister - 'the true support they enjoy among citizens'. It continues in paragraph 74 of the conclusions: "The inconsistency between formal legitimacy and real legitimacy undermines public confidence, citizens' democratic function and process, and offers good ground for extremism and populism" - so says the Council of Europe, not the SYRIZA or any other party - "which should be the fertile ground on which to determine our own attitude and position". And it continues: "The failure of an electoral system to prevent the big difference between the voters' political choices, as expressed in the elections, and the composition of the elected institutions, is a sign of a democratic deficit". That is what the Council of Europe says, Mr Minister, Mr Theodorikos, and doubts his justice. I submitted it to you in the Minutes. It is to be discussed next week in Strasbourg at the Council of Europe at the regular meeting. On the one hand, European enlightenment, not the left, not the socialists, European enlightenment and, on the other, the arrogant Balkan provincialism of the New Democracy and Mr Theodorikos. "Syriza's stand is hypocritical," you say. "You voted on the simple analogue when you saw that you were losing the election..." - you say - "... on the eve of the elections," you say. We voted for this one hundred and seventy-nine Members, not only of SYRIZA but also of other parties, on July 22, 2016. Elections took place on 7 July 2019, i.e. three years ago. Where's the election eve? Where is the fact that you didn't have the time required? The complete and absolute distortion of reality by you and, of course, by the communication mechanism of mediacy, which is essentially the web of their television platforms, supports Mr Mitsotakis. You say, "Why didn't you vote for him in January 2015?" Here I agree with Mr. Mitsotakis. "I have a country to rule," he said from here. Yes, you have a country to rule because you have received from SYRIZA an entire country and a pillow of certain billions that gives you that possibility. You didn't pick up a rebet asher, a broken, bankrupt country, humiliated by strife, misagent, polite, and smuggling. Mr Stakoras also admitted that there would be no money in February of '15 to pay wages and pensions. You insist there, 'why didn't you vote on the simple analogue in February '15'. And we have explained and understood that every Greek citizen who can see and judge and assess and do not consider him a given. The majority rapporteur has also spoken about paralytic situations. May I give you the definition of the paralytic procedure of your own one-party government by a majority of fifty-eight Members? Where do you want to start? Wherever you want. From the migratory? "What's raining? Let's go down"? Are you taking it day-day? "Let it dawn and see"? The paralytic non-project, no plan and no compass? Where are we going to go to the Lybian and Berlin? The confession of the country's paralytic outburst and complete anomaly? To the two contagious faces of the one-party arrogant government, the Diamantaris and the Father? Diamantar and Father, the two emblematic persons of the arrogant rule of the "one man's authority". Schools without teachers, hospitals with ranch? The Patriots we haven't learned yet, you patriots, the Greeks will send them to Saudi Arabia? Who did you ask? Have you informed the House? How will you remove from the national defense paid by the Greek people by his blood with his sweat? Who did you ask? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] All of this states the paralytic procedure that would have been brought about by the mere analogy. You say double elections, and this is the greatest insult and insult to the will of the citizens, it has never been heard. How do you anticipate that the first elections will not have a relationship with governance? Didn't you hear from the whole of the Opposition that you account for without the dominant Greek people, that you account for with incredible arrogance, vindication and contempt that the first elections will not work? You spoke, we were here in the bill on the vote of the homosexuals. It is the foreign exchange rate and the foreign exchange rate. When we talk about the parity of the vote of the homosexuals, there is the rate for which we have to put red, bars and bars, there is nothing going on. You either pass it or nothing is voted on. And when we talk about the equivalency of the internal vote, then there is no problem. Then in Chania, for example, the first vote party can elect a MP and the second party to four votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u188	You've got red in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u189	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will conclude with this and we are defending it and it is the worthy burden of the great democratic progressive left. We want the simple analogue because we want a broad alliance of popular democratic progressive forces politically with the central democrats, the socialists, the social democrats, the radical leftists and the ecologists and socialists with the world of production, culture and science, with every unemployed, homeless, poor man who touches on us, as he did in the past four years, and after your revealing six months of presence he will trust us very soon, as Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Theodorikos appreciated, who have brought this electoral law to speed up the electoral process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u190	I knew it. I wanted to leave you, Mr. Friends wouldn't leave me! Mrs. Jufi Merope, the Continental, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which the debate on the electoral system has evolved and is about to end and the simple proportionally demonstrates the deep political and ideological dimension of the issue. The positions of most of the Members of the House reveal one single thing, fear of the people's will and unadulterated expression, fear of the democratic and substantially representative system of simple proportionalness. That is why government officials, unfortunately first classmates, choose to distort history, which accuse the mere analogy of Hitler's rise to power, but also of the Civil War. In an appropriate and dangerous way they falsify historical reality and neglect the particular political, social and ideological aspects of that time. They're trying to convince us that they're denying the simple analogue for anti-fascist reasons? Of course not. The New Democracy is determined to re-establish a comprehensive model that will grant powers without co-operation, without consensus, but without accountability. Let us consider the current government's legislative work in education, health, insurance and labour, a work that goes towards the social majority, a project which, in order to implement it, needs to be supported by great private business interests, but not by proportional representation that legalises and expresses the consequences of political speech, election programmes, control and, ultimately, popular will. The doctrine of the government is condensed in the search for a la cart consensus, where it does not succeed, national issues, the refugee and others, otherwise you are not entitled to speak with the help of the naturally secured speech and the constant gloriousness of the systemic media. The hypocrisy of the New Democracy is also demonstrated by the fact that a few weeks earlier the government refused SYRIZA's proposal to give all those who have a Greek right to vote but in separate regions, because it allegedly violated their vote. So while the vote of the Greeks abroad was moved, it is not the same as the vote of the Greeks on the inside. For us, simply proportionally reflects the popular will best, increases the role of each elected person and gives him personal responsibility, which must distinguish him from society and the citizens who honor him. The support and introduction of the simple analogous, although it is, as we know, a timeless identity on the Left, is not just a worthy option, but it is based on very specific and undeniably real data. It comes to cover an existing democratic deficit which creates the existing enhanced proportional system. Many people have answered, I will also, in the constantly launching accusations of our own political hypocrisy that we have exploited the enhanced analogy to be in power and as the first government we have not found the time to introduce a mere proportional system. Let me also remind you that in the first half of 2015 we had to deal with the country's absolute bankruptcy, the social and humanitarian crisis that the powerful governments of the New Democracy and PASOK had led to and of course the lasting sabotage of you and your resignation. Let me remind you of the 'left parenthesis' scenario, every day, with your active support to the most extreme powers of lenders who have imposed fiscal suffocation on the country. I will remind you of one fact, your rabies effort, not to pass the Parallel Programme concerning people in extreme poverty who were complaining from you to lenders as a unilateral energy and as a non-cost not to be implemented and there is a social outcry and a fall in the government and many others constantly and irresistibly. As for the argument that the change of the electoral law by us is also contrary to the elementary logic, since it was voted in 2016 and the elections took place in 2019. At the same time, I would remind you that the fragmentation of the large regions was also voted, a intergroup demand to deal with many issues and possible conflicts, and the vote on the seventeen that were then taken, since the new generation had been considered immature for this. We have changed Rule 86 in these circumstances with the election of the President of the Republic and have disconnected the election from Parliament, not because it has helped us, but because we consider it right for democracy and political life to function in our country. We did the same with the electoral law, and indeed the Minister responsible pointed out to us at this stage that it does not interest us as a party of power and to negotiate with him about the murder of mere proportionals, but we have another moral and worthy context. We consider ourselves not to be a part of the old political system, but rather a part of the change and renewal of the country's political life. That is why we believe deeply in the value of democracy, in the value of voting, and we trust the people and their choices, which, in all measurements of public opinion, do not want electoral laws that give false majorities. It wants to see programme convergences and not one-party governments, which, moreover, have led us to the crisis. You insist on the recipes of yesterday, the ones that led to the crisis and bankruptcy, the arrogance of the almightyness, which is based on complex parliamentary majorities, a system that gives rise to and reproduces all the passions of our political system, the plight, the rospheti and the strife, and, above all, a system that does not respect the principle of equalisation. So the electoral law you are presenting, while supposed to be based on principles, is mainly based on the correlations in the last elections, to produce exactly the same results, the one-stop-stop-shop division of power. Of course, the threatened scenario of the double elections is an electoral and regular calculation on the part of the ruling party, in order to achieve its sovereignty for a long time. In this decision you will be sure that you will lead to political results in the opposite direction. Your main concern is to block the possibility of other progressive convergings to you through electoral law. And this is not by chance, as governments with a progressive sign appear to be hope and a way out for all European peoples - Spain, Portugal - that improve the situation of their people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute. Of course, such governments can also be the solution for our own people, to strengthen social cohesion, to alleviate inequalities, to social justice and to protect people in the new, natural but also structured environment. I know that you are constantly talking about a leap in time that the next elections will be double elections. The next elections, ladies and gentlemen, will take place on a simple analogue basis and will create new relationships of power. And not at all be sure of these correlations of power in the absence of the will of the Greek people. There is a great democratic bet: The formation of a government of cooperation based on scheduling, which will put the country in a progressive orbit and prevent the second elections. We will insist that we fight to overthrow your strategic planning along with the activation of the large social majority that will give you its answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor from SYRIZA. Now you will see how exactly seven minutes are observed! Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u193	That's right! That's right! To tell you the truth, I think that everything has been said, but I have a desire to say some serious things, in my opinion, through jokes. Christo, I had something to say at the end, but I'll say it at the beginning. What about the New Democracy? How long will it hurt us with the Samara syndrome he's got? Forty MPs have come out and say: "It is right in 1990 that Constantine Mitsotakis takes 47% in 1990 and that he takes only a hundred fifty MPs and cannot form a government, need Katsiki - I don't know who he needed - etc.''.'. The ONNEDEL now takes this or the young member of the New Democracy, says 'a great argument', goes to 1990 and what does he find? He finds that the government fell because Antonis Samaras shot her. Man has completed his political life, we wish him long-term, having a good time, having a good time in the years ahead. But don't bother the House with this thing. Mr. Lebanon, I heard your position. You told us that if it were just proportional, then we would have that result. Isn't that right? You said then that we would have this result. I'll give you my opinion. If the question was "what effect would we have if we had a simple analogue in the 2014 elections?" And it was your answer, in the middle of high school you would get "10", in high school they would call you "Reread, my child, the lesson" and at university they would call you "pass over time". What for? Because we all know now, when we're going through some pregnancies, that if in a system we change a basic term, it changes the result. And we all know that if this system, the electoral system, is part of the political system and changes, then the political system changes. And in the question, what would happen? The answer is 'I don't know'. Why? For the simple reason that there might have been not only different electoral behaviour, but even different political parties, different political groups, different logic. So, you're trying to pull us or pull the society, mostly not to understand what's going on. When you say a stable system, you don't mean the political system. You mean the economic system. The economic system needs a stable political system that will change governments, either unilaterally or through partnerships, etc., in order to remain the same stable. This is not only the case in Greece. What did the JRC call it? He was right to say that, in other words, I would like to say: 'The co-practical, post-practical urban class is always looking to find ways to renew its power'. And Paul Paulakis said: "The hundreds of families, which in various ways renew their economic power." That is the main issue. Don't you understand? And you use arguments such as stability, strong government, cohesion, social cohesion, 1789 and before that. The exact same arguments will be found if you read the Correspondents to Jean-Zack Russo, the French Revolution. In France, as Marx said, class struggles will be by the end, and in England and say. This was then answered by the urban-democratic revolution. And what did he say? L'egalite. The greatest promise of urban democracy to the citizen: political equality. That was the basic thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u194	He said two more but L'galite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u195	You want to try my French? What are you saying, Admiral?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u196	Equality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u197	So I say: Equality, brotherhood, justice. We have neither brotherhood nor justice and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u198	Fratternite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u199	Fratternite, as you say it. You also discover new arguments, that something has the DNA of the Greeks and that there is no question of 'cooperation', we are very competitive. Good thing no one came to tell us that this is evidenced, because in ancient Greece there were hundreds of states - and they are not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u200	And the twelve gods...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u201	All twelve gods. We have to come to our senses. So I'm telling you this. What do we have to talk about? Equality of vote. Each of the first votes cannot be 1.2% of the second vote - the system you are proposing - 0.8% of the third, fourth, fifth, 0.9%. This thing can't be done. No, it's not fair. He's overthrowing things. Where's the surprise of the system? That a political force has suddenly come and said: 'I will overthrow things and not just vote in analogy, but I will prescribe it'. It didn't happen? Element of our programme at our next conference, fighting from now, along with all political and social forces. It'll be like they say, and it'll be a dala noon! And we will ensure that the political system is also pushed to change and that the social system is diversified, that of me overturned. So that's the thing. And the last one. While this history of equality runs human history over all centuries and takes the character of equality policy and becomes a battle on it, civil order and democracy go through it again because of the new process of stability within and from dictatorships and goes by saying, we come to the modern world, that is, after 1980, and we find the enhanced analogue. What logic? [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I'll say it quickly, Mr. President. I heard it from a lot of people. The principle of equality, proportionality and the principle of governance. Please, here's the Stepma, someone coming to explain to me the principle of rulership. There's no such principle. This is an invention of Greek neo-colonism, which is about how the European Union will be governed, not the country itself or the citizens themselves. And this so-called principle, which is not a principle, is a condition, comes against it and says 'It's us. So what do we do that way? We are transferring the political problem, the problem with the political system, to society. The problem and the claim of society is to be equal. The question of the political system, for the time being, is that it does not find it. And how does the political system solve this problem? It carries the problem through electoral law into society itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u202	To be equal. You said that right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u203	We're equals. I'm talking eight and forty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u204	If it goes on, I won't be able to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u205	You're going to vote for him the law, aren't you, Mr. Levanne?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u206	I'm not a congressman, but my resignation will vote for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u207	Not you, your resignation. The fact that you represent the best. You'll vote for him. From tomorrow morning, as you can see, after the vote, a new element will be added to the general democratic struggle, the mere analogous to it, to win and to constitutionalise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Amalada High School. The House welcomes you. Good year and good progress, guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theodoros Dritsas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we really have no surprise why the New Democracy today brings this draft law, the congratulating draft law which once again seeks to mislead and distort any election result in the future elections. We are among those who have experienced it very well and politically and theoretically and socially and personally and do not forget what it means to the right. And the right can't change. It is a 'techs of power', as Savvopoulou says. It is precisely because Dimitris Vitsas said so well before, he serves and represents an oligarchal economic system and the method of doing so is manipulating citizens' consciences. It is a classic element of political theory, a classic element of political beliefs, opinions and practices, and the Right has repeatedly given examinations in our country in this direction. Because, look. The rate of voting and the greater proportionality of voting is self-evident. It is not a concept and a project and a requirement that we can discuss and see different opinions. Proof of this is that the Greek Constitution in paragraph 1 of Article 4 - has other appropriate provisions that guarantee precisely this value and this concept of self-worth - says this very well known to all of us that "Greeks are equal before the law". It's over. It is a constitutional provision from these unrevised and not at all accidental. So we cannot have a debate without everyone accepting the whole political system, having no party right, not confessing to this provision and not serving in all ways, as far as possible, their realisation. You have no right, gentlemen of the New Democracy to mislead equality and equality of vote. Where did you get it from? From the theory of cybercy? There's nowhere in this Constitution. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a political doctrine which, of course, serves you and serves every part that works towards manipulating citizens' consciences and customer relationships with them and with all the rest, with all the mechanisms of disorientation and manipulation. That's what this is about. But it is no longer a debate now in 1990, 2000, 2004. It is a debate that is now taking place after the huge and painful economic crisis, following the country's bankruptcy and the bankruptcy of the political system. And you come with all this fascinating, anachronistic your ideology and political analysis to bring back all those old weapons. What period? In the period when, precisely because of the constant and proliferation of a political crisis and economic and bankruptcy, we have a strong central phenomenon and a question of the crisis of representation. It's not just a Greek phenomenon. It's an international phenomenon. The crisis of representation does not only require seriousness from the political forces, consistency and reflection and deep programming. It also requires the possibility for all citizens to be invited to assume their responsibilities. It is precisely here that the proportionality of each electoral system, namely the possibility of ending the notion of a lost vote, is being quinted here. The lost vote, cultivated and artificially by the mechanisms, is a derivative of those political systems that operate and reproduce. The lost vote, however, exacerbates and exacerbates the crisis of representation. A million four hundred thousand citizens don't vote. Why? For a lot of different reasons. Very central, however, expressed in too many ways, is it exactly the ‘What should I go to vote on?’ Nobody's gonna hear me, I'm not gonna record. They will make them with their cooking." Can democracy function like this? Can there be a stable political and social system? Can there be freedoms and rights? Manipulation and misuse of any real citizen participation in politics and social affairs. That's the point. That's why you're a conservative and reactionary force. That is why the voices in favour of the most proactive system possible and - if you like - the simple, unadulterated analogous are progressive voices. Not with a formal democracy, just that everyone is equal, but because that is embryonic, so that the whole can come to the fore, if possible, of the citizens and that democracy can be revived. These issues are very essential, especially when we talk about them after this bankruptcy of the country and the ten-year crisis. You do the tricks, too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. It's not possible, I say, to believe in this trick. The only thing you were ready for is in something like the state's ultimate in the electoral law. In all other things, you have proved absolutely unsatisfactory and completely inadequate. So, here you are ready, if you believe that with this electoral trick you will get drunk in the future sooner or later, you are being deceived! And you know why you're cheating? Because - if you understand that, you do not understand, of course, why you would not bring this law - when the elections take place - whenever they take place - with simple analogy, this will give another air to the political reality of that period. And your own powerful, technocratic logic of erroneous conscience of Greek citizens will anger Greek citizens and punish you for that. So don't expect that with this trick of double-election, with the two consecutive ballots, you'll have no effect. The Greek people will condemn you because it is precisely because Greek citizens can understand instinctively, but also from their experiences, what really prevent them from exercising their right to participate in the public and determine their future. That is the essence of all that we have been discussing these days. Take it back even at the last minute. Not even you will benefit you from anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. The Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, tabled a draft law on 24-1-2020: "National Mechanism for the Management of Crisis and Risks, Restructuring of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, Upgrading of a System of Volunteers, Civil Protection and Other Provisions". I will give Mr Dionysio Stamenitis the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Pella with the waterfalls. Then the State Secretary for the Interior will take the floor, then the Minister will take the floor. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Interior on how Members should be elected. It is a legislative proposal that, like most of us have voted so far, comes as a implementation of the basic commitments of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis. The tabling of the legislative proposal to change the electoral law and abolish the mere proportionality introduced by the SYRIZA government is a key option for the current government and is formed on the basis of three factors. First factor: It is carried out in electorally dead time. The three and a half years remaining until the next elections give us the right to claim that electoral law does not change to serve games of power. The second factor: a majority system is proposed, but more proportional than that which existed in the country since 2004. The bonus of seats in the first party is again planned, but depends on the percentage it receives. The third factor - as a result of what I have just said - ensures the greatest equivalence of the vote of Greek citizens and shields the cybernicality that you have used, gentlemen of SYRIZA, for the years that you have been government. The government is therefore clearing the conditions of political competition with respect both to the parties and to the Greek voters. It proves in practice that the country's governance issues are too serious for us to play. And finally, it continues tracking the doctrine of consistency between words and works, followed by the first day that it is government. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that opened on the change of electoral law by the previous government in the vote on simple analogy could indeed be a substantial and fruitful dialogue on the characteristics of the electoral law to be adopted, so that the country can have stable government figures without going into adventures. And it would be more worthwhile if today's Opposition did not then use the change of electoral law as a means of serving its party interests. In a turbulent political, economic and social period, we saw the government suggesting simply proportionally as a system that would get us out of the deadlock. He proposed, in other words, that system that proved to be based on historical events was what created the greatest political deadlocks. It was associated with turbulent periods, periods of insolence, dark practices and fragmentation of political forces. And the paradox here, however, is not that SYRIZA chose to legislate on an electoral law that connects with instability and instability. It is also known that the opposition party defends the doctrine "great turbulence, great state". The paradox is that they tried to convince us today of their pure and unadulterated intentions in the matter of electoral law, but after it became government and Alexis Tsipras Prime Minister with the enhanced analogue twice. Why didn't they change the law in the first half of 2015? They said so today. If for SYRIZA it was a matter of principle, the Review and the introduction of simple analogy, why - as is its abolition for us - why did they not put it directly in the first few months of 2015? What prevented them? It is a question to which they have not given any serious answer. This is also stacked in many and paradoxically unexplained days and works of SYRIZA. Why, gentlemen of SYRIZA, in 2015 did you not move on to changing the electoral law? There were the interparliamentaries, at least in their statement in the election and in their programme. You knew, however, that, since your damned ass you did at the time, there would be a problem with the government majority and we would go to elections. So you safely took advantage of the 50 seats bonus - and the previous President said that the simple analogue was not created to allow space for your former opponents to breathe - and you did so next time. So the arguments in favour of mere proportionality are summarized in the position that it is the only system that can create a relationship of trust between parties and citizens. And that is because - as you say - a mere analogue forces and leads to consensus. It is an opinion, which is not confirmed by history, by the recent examples, by Greece or elsewhere. Therefore, any argument for cooperation, consensus and confidence is inconsistent with the same reality. I would also like to say this because you say a lot of things. When it was possible in May 2012 to create a co-operation government, the New Democracy Government - and that is our difference - invited all Parliament's parties to create a government to get the country out of the crisis. And a tripartite government was created in 2015, which had more MPs than it needs to create a government. While you and January and September 2015, when you found a convenient and easy partner, you stopped the cooperation invitations. This is a significant difference between us and it really shows respect for Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, two days after the historic vote of the first Greek President of the Republic, we really come to legislate on an electoral law that - it does what we believe - ensures the stable functioning of the political system. The optimism has taken the place of uncertainty and the belief that the country is changing for the better is becoming stronger and stronger. After ten years of deep economic, social and political crisis Greeks and Greeks are more mature and more ready to support the major changes that will ensure the transition from difficult years to the new era. Our task is not to allow this effort to be reversed, to be cancelled. And the new electoral law is one of the most important tools to help secure this objective. I urge you, too, to vote in favour of the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Interior Theodoros Lebanon for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. A number of issues were raised during the two-day debate in plenary on which I feel I have an obligation to say a few things. Ask first, time. Fixed position of the liberal party is the systems of the enhanced analogy. Election by the Prime Minister at every opportunity said that the simple analogue as he knew it, as SYRIZA brought it, would be abolished. That's what we're doing today. And I have a real question. When did you want us to bring it? You don't like January? You wanted Marty? You wanted April? You wanted December? Did you want five days before Parliament was dissolved in 2023 for the election? I don't understand. Three and a half years before the end of the term of office, the government is in time for legislation and says that this is the electoral system with which the next elections will take place. It's a second question. What is Parliament called today to vote? A electoral law that is more proportional to the electoral law whereby the elections in July 2019, May 2012, June 2012, January 2015, September 2015, a electoral law that puts a threshold for any bonuses, because we believe that no party should receive a bonus in May 2012. It is an election law that increases the bonus that the first party will receive. Why? Because we think that the larger the percentage, the stronger the mandate from the Greek people either to form a self-powered government or to cooperate with another party to become a co-operation government. And because Mr. Aylonite yesterday referred to an article by Mr. Gerapetritis, the Minister of State, what Mr. Gerapetritis wrote in 2015, that is exactly what we are legislating today. He said that bonus should not be granted at all without a minimum threshold and, secondly, that bonus should not be stable regardless of the rate of the first party. I would point out that the actual bonus that New Democracy received in the July elections was twenty-eight seats. It would take a hundred and twenty - nine - one hundred thirty seats with SYRIZA’s simple analogue and took a hundred fifty - eight. So, in 1/6, the fifty bonus seats don't exist and you can see it. We have brought a more proportional system than the previous one knowing that there will be no two hundred votes. We could have brought what we judged best and best. On the contrary, we have brought what we feel is more right for the country and for democracy. I have also heard a reference, by the way, to the equilibrium of the vote on the emigrations. There we had a great difference: from the same voter, his vote would otherwise have taken place if he voted abroad or on the inside, and now the vote of the same electorate has the same weight regardless of where he will vote and what he will vote on. Because all the polls in the morning are empty. I would remind you that if the 1990 election law were in force in the July 2019 elections, New Democracy would receive an eighty-five seats. If there were the type of proportional system in Spain that you rejoice and celebrate for the government that was formed, the New Democracy would have a hundred sixty-six seats, with a D'Hondt system. Third theme, consultation. What can we talk about? Eighty-six and fifteen percent one. There was no reason for SYRIZA to agree to discuss any other system. Possibly because he may never be interested in even when he becomes the first party to rule himself again. He wants to share responsibility. He found Mr. Kammenos the first time. Shall we have a virtual dialogue, talk about people's eyes? There's an exception. I listened very carefully to SYRIZA Professor and MP, Mr. Bernardakis. He said two things. It left the possibility of a small premium for the first party open. And secondly, he said something which is even more interesting, that it is - in introductory words - 'incomprehensible' the first party in votes not to be the body of the next government. Fourth issue, which dealt with both my academic performance and my school performance, whether election results would be the same as mere proportional or not. So I would remind you that, because there is no 41% simply proportional because people vote differently, Constantine Mitsotakis took 46.88% in April 1990. And when we say in the scenario if the first party gets 45% - which I imagine you do so, because you probably have the magical sphere that predicts the results - if it gets a hundred forty-three seats, whether it is fair or not, and whether or not it should be 45% to make a government or not, you do not answer that. It will have to make partnerships, and it has a clear mandate from the Greek people. And that conversation would make sense if it changed the 3% limit and became 1%. There would have been many more electoral formations. With 3% over - down the same parties will be involved. 3% is that changes the balance in parties' mechanics and not whether there will be simply proportional or not. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The fifth issue, which was raised by President Voutsis, was raised by Mr Voutsis. There is indeed a serious matter. In 2004 they voted about seven million citizens and in September 2015 they voted a little more than five and a half million. Let's sit down and get everyone involved in the political system because the two million voters were lost, where they went. Yes, it's aging as a part of the population, because it's been in the middle of a decade. Yes, a large number of children left abroad because of the crisis, but still the number is too large. This, I think, is more important to concern us and I think that participation has nothing to do with simply proportional or enhanced proportions. In 2004 seven million six hundred thousand voted with a reinforced analogue. As to whether it's the self-powered governments for the crisis, you didn't convince me. I do not think whether there will be corruption or not in a government is whether or not a party, two parties or three parties are involved. I don't mind what you're saying you don't want the state to be a spoil of one. So we want it to be a spoil of two or three? Let's sit down and figure out ways not to be anyone's spoil and see how we could stop this. And it is an opportunity - and it will be next time - to move forward with a series of important reforms, such as those for parties' finances, for election expenses, to update them, to put in new situations, the Internet, all of this. You, I wonder, as a government of SYRIZA - ANEL, didn't you share office? Have you appointed, for example, hospital managers who had the "PHILELLETER" forums or read protothema.gr? Seventh issue, final state, a very brief reference. Do you know how many times in the previous government you changed ministries? Infinitely. He started out with the Home Office, which had the police in it, the public order. The most famous Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Mr. Lafazanis, had through the farm to the environment. You saw it didn't work and it split up. Mr. Spirtzis, for example, was Deputy Minister of Development. It broke because you saw the model didn't work. And you know we have no problem recognising that it has also been wrong and that some things have not been properly appreciated. I will not go into self-government. Life has solved that. By the way, the number of mayors with a simple analogue elected from the first round was up - down with the 2014 elections. So the simple analogue at least where it was implemented in municipal elections did not lead to the fragmentation of the system. Last item, partnerships. Election law neither imposes partnerships nor excludes partnerships. The people are demanding it. We believe that the premium, apart from the operation of self-government and forming, has even the possibility of facilitating the co-operation governments. Under the law of Pavlopoulou, the fifty seats were co-operated and in 2012 and 2015. Once the Pavlopoulou Law gave self-reliance in 2019, three times a government of co-operation in June 2012, January 2015 and September 2015, and once the law of fifty seats did not even give a government in May 2012. And I'm closing up with the program deals. I'm in favor. I am not convinced, however, because you have had the opportunity to make a programme agreement twice. The first time in January 2012, the programmatic agreement was a half-hour café in Koumoundouros, and it was probably espresso, because the meeting was short. And the second time in September 2015 we saw this amazing, the second most famous meaning in political history. The first was at the airport of Greek, the second was the meaning of Prime Minister at the time, Mr. Tsipras to Mr. Kammenos at the Propylaea to come to form a government on a platform! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We don't want these partnerships! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u214	Mr Anastasios Prussakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion by the Ministry of Interior: 'Election of Members' is a pre-election commitment and an announcement by the Prime Minister of the process of electing Members. This proposal abolishes the simple analogous system introduced by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The only aim was to prevent the self-restraint of the New Democracy. After all, the questions asked to you by the newly appointed State Secretary for the Interior were crucial and your answers I think we will have them shortly. The simple analogue, as presented by the remnant governors, creates paralytic situations for the operation of the country and makes the formation of a government practically impossible. Those who have a clear political glance saw the consequences of the last election campaign in local government: ineffective cooperation, inefficiency. With the first legislative interventions adopted by the New Democracy with a sense of responsibility, the aim of which was to strengthen the responsibilities of the mayors, in order to achieve governance, Mr Dritsa, in local government, because you intend to legislate in government. The new electoral law, on the contrary, is based on electoral justice and aims at the proper functioning of the electoral system. In particular, it restores the bonus of seats for the first party, but will not be granted indiscriminately and independently. On the contrary, this bonus will escalate in fairness and proportionality, ensuring political stability. The government deposites the new electoral law in a year away from the next elections, in a year of electoral neutrality. Our Prime Minister both from the BSE conference and Davos clearly stated that the next election will not take place before 2023. The government has a clear people's mandate, it will run out four years and this is a message to market forces both inside and outside the country, but also to our creditors. The question is: who is most afraid of early elections and who wants more early elections? Who has the courage and responsibility to vote on the draft law under discussion and to relieve the country and the political system of double elections, at a similar cost, which, as you know, reaches almost 100 million? Ladies and gentlemen, if you have political power and believe that the people's verdict will show you first political power in the next elections in 2023, vote on the draft bill. The truth is, some have not had time to settle their domestic affairs. They have not, apparently, managed their election results, i.e. defeat. They see that the next election will be the final blow. This is in response to any slight suspicion of party calculations and purposes. The direct vote of the new electoral law not only conceals the interests, but it is a matter of principle, consistency and political culture. In addition, it does not in any way prevent party post-election cooperation. On the contrary, it is close to the previous electoral system implemented for about fifteen years - and indeed, you have used it twice as many elections - by giving governments of different political parties. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy proposal actually establishes a crystal clear, reliable, simple and functional electoral framework. The draft law comes at a time when political stability, but also national understanding, are positions for our survival and foresight. In this direction, the New Democracy has guaranteed the Greeks' vote abroad. This is because we are going through a difficult period, with serious national issues and challenges from our neighbours, and national unity and sympathy are needed. We in the border region need it. We need it from all sides of the Greek Parliament and not just for reasons of public relations. But we should all believe it. The government under this electoral law is moving towards an act of responsibility for Greek voters and the political system. Because the proposed electoral system ensures political stability and efficiency, because Greece must be credible abroad, because the Greeks are calling for a strong government, because the new electoral law is based on political bravery, I am voting in favour of the Ministry of Home Affairs bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u216	The Minister for the Interior, Mr. Theodorikos, is called at Step. Minister, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u217	How much time do I deserve, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u218	You haven't spoken at all, so you have twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u219	I will speak much less, Mr President. Thank you very much. I also think that almost all the arguments have been put forward by all the governments of Parliament. You will allow me to repeat, as much as possible, less by keeping and separating three issues, which I can see are of great value from this two-day debate. The first issue is whether this electoral law leads only to self-powered governments or to co-operation governments and what is best from them and how this is linked to the new strategy presented by the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Tsipras in his recent interview with the "HIMA OF CYRIA". I think it was two or three weeks ago. First of all, I would like to ask a question and, I hope, I hope, all of us together will give a self-evident answer. Are electoral law defined in particular by governments? I think we'll all agree that we don't. In parliamentary democracies there is a post that I hope expresses all the wings of the House, namely that the people elect the governments. Under the previous electoral law, which gave fifty bonus seats to the first party, without any precondition, the Prime Minister was elected with self-government, George Papandreou as President of PASOK, elected Prime Minister Samaras, head of the cooperation of three parties, the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Democratic Left and elected Prime Minister Tsipras, head of the co-operation of SYRIZA with the Independent Greeks. I would also like to remind everyone that this electoral law with the fifty bonus seats above what our own electoral law gives, because our own electoral law is giving the bonus staggered, in the elections on May 6, 2012, it obviously did not rescue the then mighty New Democracy and PASOK bailout. It was the well-known rage in those very difficult years. Therefore, from the examples I mentioned, we have to agree that electoral law has naturally an impact on the electoral behaviour of the citizens and on the basis of which a government is formed or not. However, there is nothing stronger in determining the electoral behaviour of the citizens than the social conditions that exist, the political policies of the parties, the accounts of the parties, the presence, the personality of their leaders and the dilemmas that ultimately prevail in society. That's where all the elections are judged. To conclude, therefore, the electoral law that you are voting against today does not at all prohibit the cooperation governments. This is a truth and a reality that you cannot in no way deny. There are undoubtedly electoral systems which facilitate the possibility of forming a government, but with greater ease, but with less and I think we will also agree that the wider period that we are experiencing does not allow us to add difficulties to our country. The new Republic's proposed electoral law favours the existence of two-partyism, even smaller than in the past, at rates which did not reach the New Democracy and PASOK rates at that time, although the New Democracy's percentage in the recent election campaign is now close to the election figures that the liberal party had at its strong times. I consider this element, namely that the electoral law contributes to the consolidation of a new two-partyism, a positive and useful element for our democracy. I say this because the existence of large parties, which are certainly not united in their views and perceptions, unites forces, tendencies and opinions. The parties have differences between themselves, but they unite them. That is what I think is very positive for our democracy. Everyone realises whether throughout this period of the ten-year crisis, beyond the socio-economic impact, we have also had an electoral law that would make it easier for various parties and new formations to make, what worse it could have happened in the country. This is a lesson that I hope you will agree that we must keep for the future. If Mr Tsipras' aim really is to regain the election, so that he becomes Prime Minister, I believe that this electoral law, as Mr Hatzidakis quite rightly said a little earlier, should satisfy him. I think it actually satisfys him. Mr Tsipras, however, has the obligation as Chief of Police Vice-President to balance within his party with those - and I think that there are several - he is obsessed with the "fet" of mere analogy. It is also one way, after so many years of serious inconsistencies and unreliability, of the four and a half years that has ruled the country, to find a subject where to try to appear consistent. So yesterday he had the forced duty to defend the simple analogue. I have certainly not seen much enthusiasm from Mr Tsipras nor from you, his MPs. If I noticed, about half the people were here at the time that the Chief of Officerial Opposition was speaking, and I don't imagine that the SYRIZA MPs were in Davos for any serious reason, because something was said about the country's Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of the country was at a very large international forum and fought for our country's views and national issues and issues relating to economic development. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unless you were particularly disturbed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because the Prime Minister of the country met the new President of Venezuela, who breaks up the "maya" of the well-known partner and expressor of your ideas in previous years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the context of his duty to strengthen the morality of his members, Mr Tsipras also took an interest in the fate of the Members of the New Democracy. He told us, if I remember correctly, three times that one-third of us, the Members of the New Democracy, will not be in Parliament next time, and that is certainly something that is particularly sad about Mr Tsipras. He told us that simply proportional will lead to governments of progressive cooperation. Isn't that what he said? The very recent story disguises him. Just five years ago, as Mr Tsipras, as my Deputy Minister, Mr Lebanon, observed, he preferred Mr Kammenos as a political entity, as a political person, to discuss and deal with him and to form, as you said at the time, the first left government. He had an alternative to discuss with PASOK and the River at the time. I am referring, gentlemen, to PASOK and Potami because she said yesterday that it would be his political proposal to the Greek people in the next parliamentary elections that will be conducted simply proportionally and no party will have a self-sufficient parliamentary majority. So what prevented you from doing what you are supposed to propose now to the Greek people? Electoral law? The non-implementation of mere analogous? No, gentlemen. Your Chief's strategy prevented you from making clear choices. In agreement with Mr Kammenos, he attempted to break down a very large election audience in this country, a audience that in fact includes the vast majority of Greeks with patriotic, liberal and patriotic characteristics, what has been expressed for a very long time by the New Democracy party. He tried to break this space through his alliance with Mr. Kammenos. He didn't make it, and all he did was disappear his partner politically. That's good again. The New Democracy's party was completely united and then, after these events, led Kyriakos Mitsotakis to act on its unity, renewal and enlargement and achieved the well-known result in the recent elections of 7 July. By the way, did Mr. Tsipras regret this strategic decision? If he today tells the Greek people what he says about the next parliamentary elections, some account must be given for the time being and you, gentlemen, should ask him for it on behalf of the people who voted for you all the time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In his speech yesterday, the Chief of Officerial Responsibility is very conscious of the electoral scenario. He's cultivating himself consciously the debate on early elections. It does it for one reason, mainly for some more I'm going to analyse. The main reason why Mr Tsipras does this is because he trembles, fears the parliamentary elections and obviously has changed his opinion on the polls, because otherwise he should not be so afraid. I understand that. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, he is using the early elections that he wants to deliver to us, as a possible scenario of the nearest tomorrow to despise internal controversy and controversy, which are multiplying in the SYRIZA area. The more afraid the Members and members of the SYRIZA party are that we may have elections soon, the more they close their mouths and there are no internal controversies, which I see to be'red' in fact, because I hear opinions and perceptions that I would not expect to hear from a party that I think is democratic. In fact, in order to inspire you, it comforts you with the idea that the second party, SYRIZA, when the elections are held, will cooperate with the third party, with the fourth party - I do not know how many more it will need to make this famous government - just to prevent Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy from participating in power. Really, who are you working with? What programme are you going to work with? What policies will you cooperate with? Is there anyone who wants to work with the political power of populism and demagogy of four and a half years? I don't think so. So let's check his fear of Mr. Tsipras. Early elections, as the Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, has already said, will in no way be taken. And what Mr. Mitsotakis says means. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very big difference between these two political leaders, between these two political men. It's not the only difference. Mr. Tsipras will need to change very much to reclaim power. Because this time there is no room for demagogy or for anti-immemorial preaching. These, ladies and gentlemen, are over. You're not in the field of political virginity. You ruled the country for four and a half years and were judged by the Greek people. You will allow me, before I go to the second part, to observe this: in the context of this obsolete anti-right strategy, which was carried out by the Chief of Police Vice-Population yesterday, there was also a whole debate in Parliament in relation to the bonus of the party coalition. I would just like to ask myself: is there anyone with whom you can come down to the next election together? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I'm going to go to the second point. Powerful governments, ladies and gentlemen, are trustworthy governments, because they gain citizens' confidence and can face difficult situations. Reliable governments are the ones who implement the programme which they have announced in the election and the people trusted them for it. A great virtue and a strong advantage of the party that governs the country and its leader, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is that it was directed by speaking for four years the language of truth to the Greeks and ruled by the act of truth. He proposed a deal of truth. It creates an act of truth and a true creative work. Allow me, my dear colleague, Mr Dritsa, to say - it must not be in the Chamber at the moment, it is not important, it has also been said by other SYRIZA colleagues and my dear State Secretary has mentioned earlier - to say: The issue of election participation is mainly related to the credibility of politics. It has nothing to do with distracting the electoral system. Do you know how many people who shared your illusions - let me this phrase that your Chief himself has said - have you sent home? Do you know how many people you sent to be completely disappointed by the political process, why did you announce things that were impossible to do and lead the country to destruction, if you insisted that you continue until the end of the day? To look a little further into what he has said and what he has done as a responsible political force. A credible government today is the self-powered government of Mr Mitsotakis, as evidenced by the vote of this electoral law, and as far as the time promised by the Prime Minister is concerned, he will do so as far as the content is concerned. It is reliable for the speed of de-escalation of taxation. It is reliable for the implementation of pro-investment policies. It is trustworthy to support the weak. It is reliable for the state's reconstruction policies. It is credible for the overall implementation of its policy, a policy that has been accepted by the majority of Greeks, and especially in the middle class that you have almost dissolved with overtaxation, the middle class that begins to see life with realistic hope. Yesterday Mr Tsipras' attack on the government in a number of areas of social life is unstable. No one forgets overtaxation, nor management failure, nor heavy arrogantness, especially in the last few years. But you will allow me to tell you that the government of Samara - Venizelos - a government that was a co-operation government. I would therefore repeat the argument: it was a credible government, because it had a coherent framework, which it applied and with which it would have finally taken out of the crisis, if you had not interrupted, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, its course. So it is trustworthy governments that implement the policy for which they have been elected, whether they are self-government or governments of cooperation. I'm going to the third and last part of my speech. I have noticed, Mr Spirtzi, very carefully what you said yesterday. I would like to ask you to look very carefully at what is being said and what is being done. Convergences and effort of consensus for our own party, not just a circumstantial case, not just a regularity, not just a communication case. We believe that the effort to convergence between the parties must be continuous, because it is absolutely essential. And it is necessary, especially at a time when the country is severely threatened by illegal Turkish claims. We don't have the luxury of splitting. We do not have the luxury of artificial controversy. Obviously there are ideological differences and policies. But there is now a common framework acceptable to all parties. First of all, all parties have taken part in the governance of the country. And that's a new given. The patriotism of all is not questioned for any political power, for any of the people in here. But there is also a framework which - with the exception of, of course, the Communist Party - relates to the country's international orientation and our alliances, but also to the main economic obligations that the country has over the partners. This is a framework of consensus, which can extend much longer. That is why the Government of Mr Mitsotakis will do everything in its power to reach the greatest possible consensus. In this context - and I conclude, Mr President - the Ministry of Interior has already set up two committees, which will help to create two legislation aimed at making the reconstruction of public administration and self-government and strengthening regional governance. These committees involve people from all over the political spectrum and with a wealth of scientific structure and infrastructure, which can make a decisive contribution to this new effort. One way to reform is ahead of us. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is determined to read him. We hope and believe that there will be others who, even in part, want to put their backs on the country's positive and creative course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Flamouraris is called in Stepma by SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u221	I would like to make two - three positions in relation to what the Minister has already heard. Minister, you have really exceeded your efforts, because you have referred, in fact, to how the SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance Members treat them, in relation to what the President of the Party wants, how he treats them to keep them and not to confront each other. You need to know - and you have an earlier experience - that our participation, the participation of left-wing voters, is a history of struggle, of effort, indeed, to solve the problems of those who are suffering. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have no need of these posts. We're just serving them. They're not serving us. Unfortunately, I do not know to what extent a logic which is not ours has been incorporated, was not left. It is a logic that really prevails in neoliberal areas. All that you have said in relation to our parliamentary group, I return it to you and do what you want. A second point relating to the speech is that you have said so well that there are also cooperation governments and so on. A crucial issue you didn't say. You did not say a question relating to democracy, to parity. It has nothing to do with what the vote plays. And the vote is of every man special, it's and he really wants my vote to be equal to yours or Christos Spirtzis. You are not making any reference to this matter. You only said that there could be cooperation governments. I really didn't get mad. I regretted such a position, and in particular the Minister for the Interior. I'm stopping here. I hope you're revoking. I think you'll call back. And I'm moving on to my location.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u222	Retract what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u223	Rescind what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u224	I said what. I was clear. Members cannot be affected because they are elected by the people and they are not for the same interests. I'm going to my speech now. If you give me the three minutes I've placed, it'll be fine. Or I'll cut it off. I do not hide you, ladies and gentlemen, that sometimes I wonder whether our public speech commits a mistake by using specific words, such as regularity, stability, governance. Of course, we are talking about the needs of dialogue. But these words your party deliberately disconnects them from their basic meaning, their constitutional dimension and ultimately their democratic content. I would remind you, therefore, that the country went bankrupt with normal, stable and self-powered governments. It is clear, therefore, that today's debate is taking place under the responsibility of the government. It would be very easy to agree very quickly if for everyone, which is self-evident, the democratic requirement for genuine representation of citizens' will in parliamentary and governmental relations would be the same. If we were to agree on this, we could easily proceed to a single electoral system. Unfortunately, it is not so and the real causes of the conflict manifest themselves in the name of the electoral system. On the one hand, those who represent or aspire to represent the many who do not fear the people's will but seek to express themselves, even if they know that they are often manipulated and misled by powerful propaganda mechanisms. On the other hand, the wars of simple analogy that have reached the point of delivering catastrophes, such as Hitler's rise and the civil war in our country, to the electoral system of mere analogous. This selfish attitude of the specific political wing that wants to serve the few really irritates me when I hear that SYRIZA used the mere analogy for micro-party purposes. However, I would like to stress that the New Democracy does not restore this system to win the next elections, because that is not at all certain or, in my opinion, impossible. As you know, this issue lies in its ideological core, that is, the system of enhanced analogy. It takes it to continue building the authoritarian state of the right. He seeks to convince the citizen that he absolutely needs a government that is stable and self-powered, because bankruptcy, scandals, clichés and all these "good"s loaded us are different and milder with self-powered governments. So, chaos does not bring irresponsibility or corruption to you, but any cooperation governments. This is therefore an attempt to restore the normality of the right-wing state. Why else is the unemployment that increases and does not fall? What else is the attack on the labour rights that are shrinking beyond the memorial logic, the constant loss of every welfare in favour of the workers we have achieved? What else is that hospitals are still without personnel and drugs? Every day I read that cancer patients don't do their treatments. What else are the investments that don't come?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u225	They're still ten speakers. They won't be able to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u226	It's over now, Mr. Flambury. It's short.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u227	Investments that don't come and come will pay them... Please, the president can tell me if I'm gonna stop in a minute, in half a minute. You don't need to interfere. I can stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u228	I'm personally retired. All the regional parliamentarians will lose their planes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u229	It's over in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u230	I can stop. That's not the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u231	They're all gonna lose their trips.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u232	It'll be over now. Don't interrupt him, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u233	Did you finish your intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u234	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u235	Twenty-five minutes were spoken by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u236	He's a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u237	So what? What does that mean? If we're gonna lose the ship or the plane, talk less. That's right. But I understand that they're not likeable to what you hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u238	Now why are you dialogue? First of all, the Minister did not speak at all and was entitled to thirty minutes. Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u239	I'm on my way and I'm on my way. I just need a minute. In our homeland, the stratification of society was and is such that the majority of it is progressive and can become even greater majority when the electoral system is a mere analogue. This reality can lead to governments that cooperate with the progressive forces and can thus block its right and its policies forever. That's what they don't want. That scares them. That's what they want to get away with. We won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty-two students and students and four teachers from the Second Department of the Lamia Music School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] Mr Papadopoulos Athanasios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u241	The real problem of all of us is obvious. How do we want Greece to be governed by the new era? By assimilating the conclusions of overcompensation, humanitarian crisis, custody, monumental adventure or the method that led to the country's bankruptcy? By consensus, consultation, overruns, schedule shocks, with an equitable calculation of the vote of all citizens in the governance system or with the first party's premium to govern according to its own assessments and options only? Ladies and gentlemen, rule on simple analogues is objectively difficult. It requires great popular consent, requires a culture of political consultation, consultation, osmosis, compromises, compositions, alliances. Participation democracy is anyway a difficult city, much more difficult than aristocracy, oligarchy, feudalism, dictatorship. But it is a valuable, irreplaceable city, the institutional development of the culture and wisdom of our ancient ancestors. The simple analogue has difficulties. However, they do not lead to the supposed governmental stability, with centralisation, with a blue state, with the division of power, with arbitrary, unequal treatment, with theft of parliamentary seats. It does not lead to easy governance with bonuses and subjection of the popular majority to the majority vote. The real problem is the relationship between all of us and cooperation, composition or conflict. When you want the synthesis too, the universe will conspire to achieve it. Historically tested that post. It has been seen recently in Greece and in the vote of the relatives, which we all wanted, and which is why we managed to reach agreement. Simple analogue is certainly not panacea, it does not guarantee proper, honest governance, it does not guarantee the participatory, progressive governance that we want. He was tested with successes and failures. Obviously, the slightness of the collapse of the Republic of Bajmar is unbearable, and, Minister, I think it is very important that you refer to a meeting with the new President of Venezuela. So, how did he get elected? With what election system? With a coup? Is it within your logic and coups? Simple analogues are the electoral system that genuinely renders the people's will and the maturity of the political forces. Steady governments, strong governments are those that rely on the most widespread popular consensus with their choices, but also on effective, atrocious public administration that must exist. In terms of stability: in Greece there were also co-operation governments and monogroups that had no stability. Let me remind you: Jandetaki government fell in a few months, Zolota government, likewise. The government of Constantine Mitsotakis threw it - to remind you a little - Antonis Samaras and a few other Members of your party. The Karamanlis government fell from the overcharge, Giorgos Papandreou fell by MPs of his own party. The Papademu government was thrown by Antonis Samaras. The Samara government has been pushed by the failure to close the fifth assessment. To tell you that, as you are concerned, we have had the experience of the difficult governmental cooperation of various ideological political forces on the basis of specific objectives of the historical context. So, with our conclusions, we have very easily come to the constitutional review that the continuity of the governments should not be linked to the election of the President of the Republic and to the choice of the simple proportional as a permanent electoral system. Do you remind us that it is easier to rule with the enhanced analogy and bonuses? We don't get a bite. Now in memorial Greece it needs recovery of citizens' confidence in the democratic city, it needs strengthening the participatory democratic institutions, representative democracy, the use of modern technologies. Governments need stable ideological convergence and concrete orientation for the country's participation in a united Europe. In our opinion, we need a strong government of programming cooperation between progressive, ecological and deep democratic forces. Strong, reliable, progressive government on the basis of a joint programme, fair and sustainable development, with a large authentic popular majority, elected in a simple analogue way, the memorandum of Greece, Greece, the great potential and the great national challenges. And this government can emerge as a mature child of historical necessity, whenever the elections take place, as SYRIZA will conquer ideology and programming hegemony and will be the strong pole of progressive solution, progressive governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been four speakers left. I would ask them to be brief in view of the fact that I also have the information that there will be no secondary cases, in order for the province colleagues to be able to catch up with the planes. Mr. Khiridis Dimitrios has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, because the vote is imminent and the debate has already been long, exhausting and the issue has been cleared up from all sides. I am going to try to be calm and I think that, as many as some have tried to bring great interest to the debate, they may have failed, because this proposal of the government which we will be voting for shortly moves in the context of calm, I would say, if anything would characterize it. And that's for three - four main reasons. Firstly, because it follows a long Greek tradition. It has been established for many decades now that this system called "reinforced analog" has been called "reinforced", and this law within this framework is moving, of which - unfortunately so-called enhanced, but in any case - an enhanced analogy has been established. So it respects a long Greek tradition, it's not something terrible and terrible. Secondly, it is based on the very specific commitment of the New Democracy Government to bring this law to a vote and, indeed, immediately after the elections at the beginning of the four-year period. Thirdly, it is a well-established position of the Greek Central Right, post-war and, in particular, post-military, the enhanced analogy. With this system a little - we have gone all over the past decades. Fourthly, because this system, if marked for something, is more proportionate than the systems that have been in place until recently and with which we have also been in the last elections. And this contrasts with international practice, which we have removed from the simpler proportional to the most popular, enhanced proportion, with a more specific example, of course, Italy, which has turned analogue into more majority and has since attempted to make it a majority. That's all in our neighbor's Italy. For all these reasons, we are not doing anything terrible, terrible and particularly interesting, Minister. We are moving in a long tradition and a well-founded, based on the experience of 2012 in order not to repeat what happened then, in a fairer and more proportionate system, but respecting rulership. Allow me, however, to point out that the criticism of counter-population, in particular of SYRIZA, and the whole debate that has taken place, could also be the most good guy to say, by hypocrisy. At five points I saw this hypocrisy in the debate we had here: Firstly, the country did go bankrupt, there is no doubt, and if you want it went one-off in 2010. But it also enriched itself in one-sided way. And he got rich and went one-sided. So the one-party on its own is no sign of destruction, to tell it all. Secondly, the system that you have brought is not a mere and unadulterated analogy. And that provided for a 3% limit, and that provided for the exclusion of certain voters who vote for the very small parties and are not represented, even though they could. Isn't that right? So even your proposal has had an unequal treatment of voting. And, in any case, nowhere in the world, with few exceptions, perhaps in Israel, there is what you call 'a simple and undisputed analogue'. Third point of hypocrisy, cooperation. Some of the parties supporting the simple analogue are traditionally denying any cooperation with anyone. I think it is easy for you, too, to call it opportune and not on a progressive, consistent ideological basis. So, what partnerships do you speak to us, gentlemen of mere analogy? Fourthly, I have listened very much to you talking about parity and the parity of voting. Last September you tabled a proposal for the vote of the Greeks abroad, which in nothing respected the principle of equality and the equitableness of the Greeks' vote. Because it limited the vote of those who were unable to come with the plane and vote within the territory on certain seats in the dominance ballot. Therefore, do not come here and move the finger in favour of parity and parity, when you yourself had brought a proposal for the unequal and heterogeneous vote of Greek citizens clear to the vote of the aberrations. Fifth, that's enough, but let's agree. You had the opportunity to vote simply proportionally when you came to power in January 2015. You didn't do it to Flevaris, you don't do it to March. You ruled with the amplified bonus and the bonus, you were re-elected with the bonus, and you did it afterwards. In that sense, someone can check you for hypocrisy. We are ruling with the bonus and, when we see that we may lose power, we are going to a more proportional system to deprive our opponent of what we have exploited and used. In any case, bound by the pre-election promise, we are now moving towards a system of electoral which follows a long tradition. It is more proportionate and fairer than what has been done, gives voice to the majority of Greeks and rulership that the country needs. That is why I, along with the other Members of the New Democracy, are going to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u244	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy, which is very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are just a few minutes before the vote on our new electoral law and I do not understand why there is so much concern on the left. Why are you worried, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Aren't you still used to the antipopulation chairs? Yes, you will have many years in Opposition and New Democracy, with any electoral law, will be a government for many years! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You should appreciate and respect the time that this government brings with it the new electoral law. It does not bring an election law to nothing but five of the national elections. He brings a law with honesty, with an ethos to the Greek citizens, who said on 7 July and gave strong popular command to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to bring changes, to bring reforms. In this context, the change in electoral law is also part of the reform. In short, in simple words, in order for the Greek people to understand us, we are making every day, every single piece of legislation, with all our policies, the election commitments of our pro-election. And we should see a little, and I will be very brief, the technical parts of the electoral law. Let's see what's changing. It changes that eventually, in this bonus of fifty seats, some criteria come in, a minimum percentage of the first party comes in. We are clear about the logic of a electoral law that we want to have for many, many years. I know that in recent years, and in particular the anti-population colleagues have been trying to say that this means that we will go to elections, that we will "burn" the simple analogue and all that. That's not our concern. Our concern is to bring Greece on the right track, from where you reached it with your care, with your populism and with the experiments on the backs of the Greek people. That is what this government is asking for and that is why it is fighting for. Ladies and gentlemen, this law speaks of real proportionality, of real representation, but also of government stability. This electoral law guarantees government stability. I would also like to address the KINAL colleagues, former PASOK, who have now come to another group, to the SYRIZA group, but unfortunately - because we must tell the Greek people the truth - you are identified in this electoral law. And that brings you to a great historical responsibility towards the Greek people. Because the Greek people do not forget in 1989. The Greek people do not forget the obstacles you have brought to the great New Democracy. There is no need for us, gentlemen of the Opposition, nor for us to "burn" any single analogues, nor for us to go to elections. We need to bring Greece of growth, Greece of confidence, which this government wins. I heard SYRIZA's colleague from Evia earlier asking what the electoral law has to do with investment and the economy. I'm answering. Does government stability not have anything to do with the economic climate? Should we finally send you to the first year of the Economic University, see whether government stability affects the economic climate? I have already heard Mr Drasakis, who has forgotten that he is not a minister and is a mere MEP, saying that the left-wings are on the offer lists. So, what do you mean, Mr Drasakis, that the right-wing people are entering the lists for another purpose? Well, no, we will not allow you to do so! We won't let you! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Because we're government for everyone. We don't divide, we join the Greek people! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very well aware of the concern of colleagues in the opposition. But what matters is that the commitments made by this government to the Greek people should be implemented. And with this law we continue to implement what we promised. And make sure that, whenever elections are held, with whatever electoral system and come, the New Democracy is the party that will always have the great majority, because it is a party with principles, values and honesty to the Greek people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u246	The last speaker, Mr Spyros Lappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. I am the last speaker, but the climate was given by the last speaker. The Hall's a little alive. I have heard Mr Theodorikos and Mr Livanios liked him to me - and I publicly state that I like him in particular - to want to support their legislative child by making a reference only to the past. I would expect you, Mr Levanie, to interpret the political phenomena and events with a view to the future. Do you know why? So, speaking of what happened in '79, what happened in '61, what happened in '23, what happened in '28, you don't interpret either the present or the future, that's a transfer. It's a transfer and you want to have a symbolism by saying that what devastating can be done in the country is with a simple analogue system. Transfer and symbolism. The transfer and symbolism are the two elements of dreams, so says Psychiatry. So, well, you're probably dreaming, you're not really. I was also saying yesterday that I supported the objection of unconstitutionalism, Mr Ministers, that you can bring us a scientific opinion in Parliament of one - not two or three - a constitutionalist, which is not against mere analogous, in favour of reinforced analogy? There's no place to look. There isn't. And there's no, you know why? Because no constitutionalist disagrees with the basic principles of an electoral system which is two: proportionality and representativeness. Listen, then, how Menesis began his talk on that council I mentioned yesterday. "The simple analogue is the only electoral system that leads to genuine and unadulterated democracy, not a system, a democracy." And they asked him: "Who could disagree with this inappropriate phrase?" Unfortunately, only the New Democracy disagrees today. And not only, maybe others. We said yesterday that the emergence of the national Parliament through the electoral system is certainly a leading democratic process and a process of supreme state-run operation. This top process, however, has been fun by your choice to consult only two days, not to express society or bodies, especially scientific bodies and collectives, and especially without bodies. With this you have already done a dehydration and bleeding of the core of an election system, which does not respond to what I told you before. And that's because on the government side you're dealing with electoral law like something passive, fast, ordinary, unworthy of speech. In fact, this deficit process proves what? It proves an intolerance to anything that has to do with the democratic principle. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we said that modern international and European trends do not justify your own account, Mr Levanne, because you did not dare either you or Mr Theodorikos tell us which countries in Europe today have which electoral systems. If you exclude England, governed by the Anglo-Saxon law, France, which is a presidential democracy, almost all European countries and the central political scene - all, most - both in local government and regions have been consistently chosen since 1950 and after the simple analogue. The reality disproves you when you demonize the electoral system of mere analogously so unequivocally and with a horizontal placement. Why are you saying that the European people have prospered since the 1950s with a period of prosperity for decades? And with a stable prosperity, all the time. I leave the crisis of recent years, which is the sovereignty of the financial system on political science. Why do they prosper with such mere proportional systems? Don't demonize it. Do you know why? Because demonization just hides the deficits you have, to support your political children. That is the main issue. I told you yesterday that the top teachers of constitutional law in our country by Aristovoulos Manesis, Tsatsos, Venizelos, Anthopoulos, Xeros, as a whole, all, but all, at least, say to the theoretical level that the simple analogue is the most democratic and most representative electoral system, because the will of the Greek people is genuinely expressed and the seats are distributed, according to the vote of the Greek people. The bonus. What is the bonus essentially? It is not a removal or addition of seats to the first party, because it is first and not for other criteria, not for other elements, but only why is it first? He's given a bonus. Does this bonus correspond to the popular will? Do we have a matching of seats and votes? We don't have one. That makes these systems collapsing. And he wondered - I have written it - Mr Theodorikos: 'They collide, they are factors, the electoral laws define the composition of the governments'. What do you say, Mr. Theodorikos? You don't? Maybe not entirely. Is it not one of the factors that determine the outcome of the elections and the composition of the governments? Open the constitutional analysts. Of course it is electoral law and it is no coincidence that conservative governments over time supported the system of enhanced proportionality. You also say that your law is more proportionate. By what is he more proportionate? Yesterday, Socrates made an account and said that if by your law, the present one, he would bring a return to the results of July, all parties would take exactly the same seats. What is more proportional because the bonus is introduced by the 25% limit? This is not because you want the law to be more proportionate. You do so to deprive you of the possibility of forming a majority from the second, third, fourth and all the rest. This results. Listen to the tragic. If the composition of the second party and the third party is over 51%, 52%, it does not have seats for the first party, as long as it has more than 30%. In other words, he made a calculation and says 32% the first party gets a hundred forty seats and the two parties coalition with 58% takes fewer seats. That's the result. And that is, Mr Levanie, and the objection of unconstitutionalism, how the law is dealt with by the coalition of the parties. And that's your fear. The parties' coalition is what terrorizes you. Let's go to another point and close, Mr President. I have said everything, said it yesterday in my stress. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Levanière, you want to make an analysis of what happened to the country coming to bankruptcy. You know Einstein said that when you do the same thing over and over and over and over and you wait for different results, you've lost the game. I was expecting more from you in his question 'why did we get here'? When you have, he says, one hour at your disposal and you want to solve a problem, you will make 50 five minutes available to the question and only five minutes in response. You did the opposite. You have spent fifty five in answer and only five minutes in the huge 'why' and 'what' that led the country to bankruptcy. That's our difference. I'm closing up with a quote to Mr. Livano. Mr Levanje, in the Roman Empire, Caesar - Mr Voridis, I say this to you, who you are in this regard - has forced all the members of the administration to recite a phrase: 'Credo quia absurdum', i.e. 'I believe, because it is unreasonable'. You do the same. You believe in a law just because it is unconstitutional but also irrational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u248	The Bureau believes that the informal agreement should not be postponed, at the request of the members of the provinces who wish to catch up with the planes. It's an informal deal. Of course, I can't circumvent the Rules of Procedure if I have to. I'd say if there's a consensus, not that. Beyond that, I have to tell you that yesterday the meeting went up to 1,000 seconds after midnight and today we started at 9:00 a.m. in the morning. A hundred and twenty - four speakers had written. They spoke a hundred and twenty - two, that is, about twenty - one hours and something. Of course, there was an agreement at 6 p.m. today to stop. But if you insist, I cannot tell the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Spirtzi, I'd say we keep the informal deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u251	After what the Minister said, but also the New Democracy MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u252	If they do, we'll go back at least half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no. To make an agreement to be all very brief, to give some answers to the issues that have been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u254	Or everyone will be given the word or anyone else. But since all the other rapporteurs agree, you are alone, Mr Spirtzi. I'd say we respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u256	I give you the floor for half a minute to tell me only if you agree or do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u257	No, we don't agree with that. For if we now start a round of seconds for the rapporteurs, the second and the tertiary accounts of the Parliamentary representatives, we will take at least two hours. So, I think your position is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u258	No decision by Parliament can circumvent the Rules of Procedure here. It is a formal matter, and that is not the case with consensus. That's what's happened in the past. The previous president has done so. You all have to agree. Mrs. Lykoli, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I would remind you that yesterday there was only one debate on the parliamentary representatives. You weren't president. So then we quit time and the next two times, both six minutes and four minutes. I would remind you, Mr President, that we said yesterday at the end of the sitting that no one, nor a parliamentary representative, should speak again. We didn't use our right. We said that if at the end of the day the Minister and the Minister of State spoke, we would need three minutes. That's all we agreed on. I don't know how to make another deal with you. And I don't think I'm starting to forget right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Symphony, what do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u261	Only if people talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Heta, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u264	So, Mr. Spirtzi, you were left alone. So quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u265	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u266	They say if you talk, they'll talk to the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u267	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Spirtzi, please. It's all over the place. The world isn't lost. If a majority doesn't want to, then we're in agreement. The debate on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior 'Election of MPs' is closed. In accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, a roll-call vote will be held on the basis of Articles 1 and 2 on the nominee article, as well as on the entire bill, due to the qualified majority required by the Constitution in Article 54(1). We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will take place in principle, Articles 1 and 2, on the nominated article, as well as on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Election of Members'. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, the hotel article and the whole. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and set, you need to roll the touch screen. Make sure that you have voted on all five areas included in the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u270	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from colleagues, Mr Samaras Antonyu and Mr Vagiona Georgiou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that, if they were present, they would vote 'NAI'. Members' letters, and so on, have been sent to the Bureau. Alexiadis Typhoon, Ahtsioglou Happiness, Drasakis Ioannis, Notopoulou Ekaterini, Papa Nikolaos, Syrmalenios Nikolaos, who know us that they are absent from the vote and that, if they were present, they would vote "OH". There is also a letter from Mr Kamine George to the Bureau, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that, if he was present, he would vote according to his party's position. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u272	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 284 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In addition, 163 Members voted in favour. In other words, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Interior: "Election of MPs" was accepted in principle by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Against this article, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Against this article, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Against this article, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. It is therefore accepted that the Court of First Instance should have its seat in the European Court of Justice, acting by a majority of its Members. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Election of MPs’ was accepted in principle and by a majority of articles. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u274	On the whole of the bill: In addition, 163 Members voted in favour. In other words, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Interior: "Election of Members" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u275	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u276	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-24-S1-commons.u277	With the consent of the House at 18.49', the sitting on Monday, January 27, 2020, at 11.00, on the subject of the Parliament's work, legislative work: the only debate and vote at the outset, the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation contract between the Foundation “Stavros S. Niarchos” and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade the infrastructure in the field of health ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A'170)", in accordance with the agenda distributed.
