ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] It's a hard time for 15:00 to 17:00, so we should be disciplined to get this over quickly. Before we begin, I have an announcement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Structurings to speed up the trial of pending cases under Law.3869/2010, in accordance with the requirements of Article 6(1) ECHR regarding the reasonable duration of the political trial, amendments to the Code of Lawyers and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday, 4 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 103/30-10-2020 by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "St. ‘Great walk’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 119/2-11-2020 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Mobilisation of all auxiliary workers in the social welfare centres". 3. The question raised by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Why does Greece not sign the International Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons'? REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 14/5-10-2020 of the SYRIZA Member of Parliament - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct need to support the olive producers of the Kalamas variety". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 16/5-10-20 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Application of resources for the Ministry of Rural Development in the New National Development Programme 2021-2025’. 3. The 19/5-10-20 question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Reimbursement and reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil'. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Individual enterprises are excluded, but new businesses are excluded from regional aid'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. "Structuring the Arrangement of Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (hereafter the Ministry of Culture and Sport) of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage of New Zealand". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Culture Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro’, and 3. 'Preparation of the Council of Europe Convention on Violences relating to Cultural Goods and Implementing Provisions'. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of the Parliament does not speak. This, of course, is by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this, but the Conference of Presidents has decided unanimously to give this opportunity to those Members who wish to do so. The vote on all three conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. We shall therefore begin on the basis of my committee practice, first of all with Mrs Anagnostopoulou, whom her party has kept a reservation on the three conventions. Here, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u3	Then it'll be us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr Calliano, those of your parties such as the New Democracy, for example, have voted in favour, the rapporteur has no right to speak since the parliamentary representative speaks. If Mr Bugas does not speak, you speak to each other, if you wish. But when the time comes, I'll ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, will the registration system be opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u6	There is no, Mr Colleagues, a record of speakers. Article 108 is specific. One rapporteur and the parliamentary representative from each party speaks. For example, your party has nominated Mrs Anagnostopoulou as rapporteur. So there's no other entry. There's no one else to register. It's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u8	What do you want? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, we are a few speakers. We could have your tolerance to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u10	My colleague, this is not a matter of tolerance. I have already told you that by a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents - otherwise it could not be done - we are giving the right, without the Rules of Procedure, to your parliamentary representatives. From there on, you could - but now you cannot - do what the Greek Solution has done, for example, which did not designate a rapporteur for all three conventions, but set a rapporteur for each contract. So the Greek Party has three rapporteurs today, one for each convention. But this, I'm sorry, is not to tell you. The Secretariat of your Parliamentary Group should have told you. Let's finish with those who have legitimately reason and depending on what time we've arrived, because you were all very noble and my friend Costas, who is also a friend of age, may for three minutes give you the floor to speak. But I do so completely in violation of the Rules of Procedure if time is allowed to end. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, I'm sorry, I've got you up here all this time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I get it. I, too, thought that other speakers could speak, because we had expressed reservations, but anyway. We should have taken care of it differently. I now come to the three conventions. As I said in the committee discussing the sanctions for the three conventions, it is an opportunity for us as a Qualified Opposition to talk about culture in general, since they are sanctions for conventions - and now I will be placed on them - to which our government had moved forward. So we have no objections. I would, however, like to take advantage of the step of democracy, since we no longer have any means to be able to intervene in the public debate and say a few things. We have reached the closure of cultural sites. I am not going to criticise you, nor will I discuss the measures taken by the Committee on Infectious Substances and Applications by the Government. I shall repeat, however, in plenary that a valuable time has been lost since we asked for a joint meeting of committees on the subject and culture, in the presence of the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Health, infectiouss and artists, to put all the scenarios down to see how culture works and what measures it takes. That was not possible. The democratic consultation has not been possible. However, I would like to say to the Minister that we would like in this House - I think it is our democratic obligation, not just our right - to see the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Affairs, where the Minister herself participated, on matters relating to culture. How was it decided to be culture the last one to open after the quarantine - the sites of culture I mean, thanks to a brief word like that -? And how were the strict measures decided on for 30% containment in theatres etc., in other words from the first places where the measures were tightened? At the same time, we had 100% aircraft completeness, an increase in the completeness of ships, even when we had an increase in incidents within August, when the image we know and in schools we had an increase of students. I would like to ask the Minister what was her place to defend culture. I understand very well or I could say that I understand why the churches are left open, because they are for the relief of the soul of the faithful, they are places of worship, etc. There, however, the non-implementation of the mask measure does not bring about the same fines, the same policy as the non-use of the mask in other spaces. In the theaters, for example, we had universal use of a mask and 30%. The Minister considers that it was an important instrument for the entertainment of society to open showrooms, etc.Huh? Was it important to relieve the soul, to the mental balance and to the creators, but primarily to society? And after deciding on the closure, what measures have been taken. What measures has she proposed for culture? Let's not start listening to numbers again, because they won't convince us. We see culture, spaces and people of culture, going to total marginalization. According to ELSTAT's figures, we see that they are in a vast majority in great poverty. It is a crucial issue in the functioning of modern culture. We respect the opinion of the infectious. We respect it for that reason, we have said that we have a debate on measures before, that the measures should be decided democratically, and if we were to reach the point, as we now have, that the areas should be closed down completely. It is not enough that the Minister's proposal that the Prime Minister has taken action to prevent these people from being found. She's the one who wants to do it. The Minister for Culture is to defend what it is responsible for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u12	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u13	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I just need two minutes because we don't have another chance to talk. Secondly, the spirit and style of power, especially the Minister of Culture, shows both the spirit and the style of power of the entire government. Citizens protested from photos released online for the Acropolis. We're not entering any scientific debate. I ask the question: do citizens have or have they have no right to protest, to have a say about something that is happening, to express their objection? Would it be or would it not be for the happiness of a Ministry of Culture and a Minister that citizens are interested in their cultural heritage? Instead of informing, instead of opening up a public dialogue, what is happening in the country's most flagship monument. We have had ironically and insulting treatment: 'The sensitive citizens who react'. So I say that we made an autopsy as a Qualified Opposition to see why the citizens are reacting. We didn't enter the scientific debate. There have already been objections. But let the scientific community first discuss this. But do we as citizens, as political parties, have the right to discuss? Do we have a right to be informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u15	One last word. Respect the experts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u16	And time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, just one word because it is important. So the Minister respects specialists and scientists. On the subway of Thessaloniki, why doesn't he respect them? Scientists of international prestige against secondment why doesn't he respect them? And a question, Minister. Is the publication according to which you visited the Council of State a week before the actions of the bodies for the Thessaloniki metro were brought? If you did visit it because we did not see any denial of the publication, then it is an institutional diversion, Minister, and you must explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u18	Listen, please. My role is neither to advise colleagues nor to protect the ministers, but to share the time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to be - as far as I can be more objective in all respects. You will allow me, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, my dear Sias, to tell you that you could ask a topical question or an up-to-date question and ask the Minister all this, which I have to say is that she has never been left of Parliament when she has parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u19	We're done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u20	Even though I do not have to make the lawyer, because I do not need Mrs Mendoni, of course, when the time comes to give her the floor, if she wishes, she will have more time to answer, because otherwise you can do, as I have told you, parliamentary control. Please remain committed to the subject of the agenda. We are now moving on and our colleague, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos, has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to make a little comment on the terrorist strike in Austria. The thoughts of all of us are on the side of the Austrian people and the families of our wronged brothers. The Europe of the peoples, the Europe of solidarity, the Europe of hope is not thrown away, it is not afraid of organised terrorism and the fear it is sowing. The terrorists are responding that terrorism will be defeated and those responsible will be punished. Democracy cannot be defeated. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we also have the Lockdown issue that returns to our lives. The focus, theatres, cinemas, sports and art areas are closed. Even all these places pay the price of pandemic. Their people live in uncertainty and this is because of the nature of their work and their conventions. For these sectors, there is a numbness and the question of how they can do it because their work is suspended. Beyond fear, apart from insecurity and economic survival, we see that there is a common line of measures in Europe. We, the Change Movement, tabled proposals for the area of culture and for the unemployed who will emerge and ask the government to accept them. I'm coming over to the bill. Three international conventions are being ratified today for our country, three conventions with Finland and Montenegro on cooperation in the field of culture, and the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods. I will start with the first convention, the bilateral agreement with New Zealand. This is a contract signed on 23 June 2011 by the PASOK government, then George Papandreou. When? In 2011. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the continuation of the state. However, there is a historical and symbolic value. I would remind you that Greeks and the Zeals fought side by side in the battle of Crete in World War II, defending the island bravely against the Nazis. This historical memory is served and strengthened by the agreement with New Zealand, an agreement with historical backwards. The aim of the Convention is to develop cooperation between the two countries in all fields, in particular culture. To this end, public awareness-raising actions will be carried out for the common history of the two countries and the cooperation of experts and artists will be encouraged. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than disappointing that it took nine years and five governments to ratify today and bring this agreement into force. It is a phenomenon that we have unfortunately seen in many other conventions. As a result, our country cannot make significant use of cooperation with other countries, cooperation which I would say contribute decisively to the protection of our cultural heritage, thus strengthening our country's position. I now move on to the agreement with Montenegro. This agreement aims to promote cooperation between cultural and artistic institutions, but also between professionals in the culture of the two countries in the field of museums, music, theatre and cinema. I come to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on cultural property offences. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a very important contract aimed at the effective protection of cultural goods, the prevention of theft, illegal excavations and their unlawful movement. It should be stressed here that the Contracting States are obliged to establish an institutional framework in line with the requirements of the Convention and, I would say, to introduce criminal provisions on the punishment of such offences, such as theft, illegal excavation, trafficking, import and export of cultural goods. At a general level, I would say that this convention promotes international cooperation and the exchange of information between the Contracting States. Also, at the same time at administrative level and in order to operate the contract in each country, lists and databases of cultural goods should be developed to establish appropriate mechanisms to prevent illicit trafficking. In conclusion, a national authority in each country will undertake coordination of these mechanisms for the protection of cultural goods. Finally, in the second article of the draft law and in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, an adjustment is made to Law 3028/2002, which is already punishing for archaeological fraud and related offences, and the provision of liability for legal persons is added. We would like here, Minister, to tell us whether there are other amendments to be made to the existing legislation, that is, pursuant to the Convention. For all three conventions we vote positively because they strengthen our country's international position and shield our cultural goods against all kinds of offences. I close, Minister, with an issue that I have raised to you in the committee debate, which concerns us from the time of Melina until today and concerns the return of the Parthenon sculptures to their homes in Greece. As a Movement of Change we invite you, Minister, since you have the long history of the Ministry and you know in depth the issues and procedures, to launch the necessary steps to return them. Besides, I would say that Brexit is an important opportunity for our country to claim, at the side of the European Union, the cultural property that belongs to it and which is our cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u22	The speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Delis, will take the floor for one of the three conventions. For the other two, the Communist Party of Greece voted 'in favour'. In the third Convention, however, on the Council of Europe, it voted against. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by saying that as a Communist Party of Greece, we too share our voice with the vindicating voice of all the people of culture, who also spend difficult hours, since they are one of those sectors that have been hit very much by this whole pandemic that has been inhabited, of the people of culture who are engaged in professional entertainment, in the most literal sense of the term, in a time full of zobis, such as the one we live in. We believe that the government must be even more concerned with their problems, embrace all people and not some of them, as has been done so far, that there should be no exception and that everyone should have that income so that they can meet the essential needs of their lives. I now come to the convention under discussion, in which the European Union seems to feel the need to modernise its own legal arsenal in order to deal with illegal excavation, illegal possession, sale and destruction of cultural goods of a very broad range. Such cultural goods mean all those mobile and real estate goods related to archaeology, prehistorics, ethnology, history, art and applications, such as graphics, industrial design and science. This convention abolishes the previous Nicosia Convention, which had exactly the same object, except that the previous one was more concerned with inter-state relations between the members of the European Union, solving various procedural issues. The new Convention seeks to achieve better coordination and better monitoring of the implementation of the Convention, with the establishment of the Committee of the Parties, as stated in the Convention. It reinforces - and this is a new element - the criminal part and the prevention and repression mechanisms. We have said on several occasions in the past - last time it was about the convention between Greece and Peru on the protection of cultural heritage, about the illegal export and import of cultural goods - and we repeat today that these measures, for example, are impossible to eliminate the problem of the incomplete protection of cultural goods. They cannot eliminate it and eventually eliminate it, since the root of this problem remains intact. And the root is nothing but commercialism, which prevails in all spheres of social activity and in culture, of course, also in cultural goods much more. A merchandise, which spreads like a plague, would say, turning any value of use into a mere commodity value, with a view to profit. Let us not forget here that the art stock exchange works seamlessly with the law and the great publicity, of course, is manipulating it according to the beam. Of course, within such a framework of indifferent trade, within such a system that has this framework, such as capitalist, every time protection of cultural goods will simply be a genocide. Taking all this into account, we will agree at the outset with the bill but we want to state in relation to the first article, although there are some positive points, that we disagree with the exceptions provided for in Articles 4 and 5, allowing Member States to establish non-criminal sanctions for criminal offences described therein. We are also opposed to the exceptions to Articles 10, 11 and 12, which allow Member States not to regard as criminal offences the destruction, damage or illegal removal from their territory of movable and immovable monuments, the synergy of criminal offences involving cultural goods and the non-institutionalisation of measures which guarantee the jurisdiction of States for offences committed by their nationals. For all these reasons, we are voting'residents' in the first article of the bill. We are voting on Articles 2 and 3. In principle and in total, on the basis of the comments we have made, we shall vote 'the present'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Ahmakopoulou has the floor for the first and third conventions, namely New Zealand and the Council of Europe. Mrs Asmakopoulou, in the paper, she writes: "Greek Solution for Contracts 1 and 3 special buyer Sophia Asmakopoulou". But you can talk about who you want and your parliamentary representative covers the other issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Europe's ratification convention on offences relating to cultural goods creates us a number of reservations, as much reservations as the Convention itself introduces from the very beginning until the end of this convention, thereby creating clear problems in its implementation. First of all, a few months ago we were all witnessing a huge disaster, and we wonder where the Council of Europe was then to protect a monument of global cultural heritage, a universal symbol of Orthodox faith. Of course, I am referring to Agia Sophia and Turkish atrocities, the literality, which has taken place. The same applies to the Chora Monastery, which was transformed into a mosque by the Ottomans in the 16th century, then to a museum and from this year to a mosque. And since Turkey is also a member of the Council of Europe, we wonder how it is possible to respect and implement this Convention, at least in future, when all it knows is to constantly violate its international obligations and destroy monuments of religious and cultural heritage, in addition to others. Let's not make fun of ourselves, he won't. It is not only intended that many promised contracts should be written, but that their content should be kept and applied in full. Our country has a unique and invaluable wealth both religious and historical and cultural. Unfortunately, this legacy has been looted over the years with disastrous results. How many masterpieces of our ancestors, how many national treasures are found in foreign countries and museums, instead of decorate our own museums and how many are auctioned by foreign, legal or illegal houses every day? These are issues that have already been raised, through parliamentary control, by the Greek Solution. We have a very difficult period of time and, as logically, this development is also affected by the cultural aspect. It is obvious, however, that this convention shows the hypocrisy of Europe, which has left crimes at the expense of Greece's precious cultural property. As we pointed out, then, at the committee meeting there should be a clear provision for the protection of religious sites. Illustrations of illegal immigrants who vandalize our congregations undisturbed are angered and irresponsible. The Contracting States are also allowed not to provide for criminal penalties for offences involving the excavation and removal of cultural goods. With what logic? She's probably the irrational one. The same goes for the illegal importation of cultural products. Then why do we ratify the contract if it is not for criminal sanctions to be provided for such serious offences? It's really beyond us. It's a gift free. It will study, says, each party taking the measures necessary with regard to movable cultural goods which have been imported, acquired or traded illegally, as referred to successively in three articles. Are we serious? It is, in other words, as if you were telling us that measures will not be taken. And you expect us to welcome that! We need stricter and clearer commitments. Exploitation attempts on land, underwater, but also trade are being introduced completely unreasonable exemptions. So, let us say, as a member, that Turkey could maintain its reservations for its benefit. With regard to jurisdiction, each party may choose to declare that it reserves the right to apply it or to apply it only in specific circumstances or situations, so that in one country, for example, the act may constitute a criminal offence to others. There are again exceptions to criminal offences against the lack of freedom of movement. That relaxation won't lead anywhere. It refers to international cooperation in criminal matters between States, that this can be used as a legal basis. In other words, 'we should have said'. No commitment. The same applies to cultural and administrative measures. The other representatives are also recognised as participation by NGOs even in this convention. Of course we cannot accept it and do not understand what criteria have been introduced. Territorial application and identification of the territories or territories by the Parties shall be unacceptable. The challenges and threats we face are many, continuous and in many cases lasting. We in the Greek Solution stress that when we speak as Greeks about culture and its protection, we have a special load on our backs. Our cultural goods need protection, not hypocrisy. Once again, we say it again as Greek Solution: give incentives to our six hundred thousand foreign children, with solutions that we have proposed so many times, through the production of wealth and the creation of new jobs to return to their homeland. We as a Greek Solution vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u26	As far as the rapporteurs and speakers are concerned, we have closed down. We are now going backwards by asking the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I will speak as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u28	Right, we have another speaker. Mr. Booba, will you come to the Step or will you speak from there? It's under seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u29	This way, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u30	Mr Constantine Boubas, Member of the Greek Solution, has the floor for the second Convention on Montenegro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express my grief as a member of the Serres, because my prefecture has drawn out a black flag, is trapped, and we pay incorrect tactics regarding moving from Thessaloniki and from the border counties all summer where the shops there were from midnight closed and all Thessaloniki was entertaining in Serres. They should have taken measures. My county is now in total quarantine and we will see what will happen to the local economy. Now, as far as Chernobyl Gora is concerned, it is called Montenegro in Serbian, that is, this stone mountain or Montenegrin, we have reservations and objections, Mr President, and we are negative because the past of this state in the Balkans, whose area is equal to Liechtenstein and its population of about six hundred and twenty-two thousand inhabitants, does not have good signs of writing about the smuggling of fuels, drug smuggling and, especially in Greece, the smuggling of cigarettes. Indeed, sometimes ministers have said that the gains for Greece are more than a billion euros. So, now that there have been very serious crimes - to remind you through journalistic reports and Vari and Corfu - and we cannot ratify an agreement with a state such as Montenegro, which is indeed taking some tourist steps mainly in the city of Gork or Budva, but the city of Bar, which has about fourteen thousand inhabitants, is the hotspot of smuggling cigarettes and other drugs, but also dirty money laundering. As a Greek Solution, we cannot go to a ratification of an agreement with a state that has developed important relations with Turkey. There is a Turkish cooperative organisation for entrepreneurs in the region. Imagine that in 2015 there were only seventeen Turkish companies. Today, there is more than a thousand people, that is, there is a cooperation. This is not an argument for us not to cooperate. However, this state is not famous for its criminal record, so to speak, through the fact that Jugkanovic has been accused of too many issues - the Prime Minister - and in Podgorica, too much has been done, in the Montenegrin capital. There is also confiscation of the property of the Orthodox Church. Let me remind you that the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece in Jugkanovic, the Prime Minister of Montenegro, has sent a letter of protest as the Orthodox there has been confiscated and persecuted by the Orthodox Church. There is, of course, the schismatic church. Let us say that this state has caused problems in particular with Serbia because half the population says they are Serbian origin and payment, and the rest of the half says they are Montenegrins. But in 2006, with a referendum that reached about 55%, he was asking to leave this federation of Serbia-Montenegro. There is one problem in this region with regard to Serbia in terms of this federation because in 2006 Montenegrin independence was made and it has created this problem, as we have said, with the Serbian Government as regards the origin of the population. So all this prevents us from accepting a ratification of an agreement that comes within a very short period of time. In other words, SYRIZA started it in 2019 and already comes to plenary, to Parliament, in contrast to the agreement with New Zealand - which is a friendly state, as history shows, particularly during World War II and the Battle of Crete - which comes after nine years. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say the following: as far as the Council of Europe is concerned, I would like to see a Council of Europe reacting to the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque by Sultan Erdogan. Because what role is the Council of Europe's Council of Europe, which is indeed giving various benefits, mainly legal advice, which is why there is also the Venice Conference with its criminals - but which does not respond? We want a practical Council of Europe, as happened with the Nicosia conference on 19 May 2017 at the Ministerial Council, which has not only 'criminal' sanctions, but also economic sanctions. Symbolically we say 'no' there as a Greek Solution to the Council of Europe, reacting to the transformation into a mosque of Agia Sophia, where UNESCO had to be more active. In addition, the Council of Europe became a follow-up to the Second Protocol by the 1954 Hague Treaty. I would remind you that the Second Protocol was made in 1999. What, then, is the role of the Council of Europe in defending and promoting the values of cultural monuments of global aura and radiation? UNESCO, as well as the Council of Europe, should have a stronger attitude. So it is an opportunity for Greece to react now to this monument of cultural heritage and radiation, such as Agia Sophia, which was transformed into a mosque by Sultan Erdogan. I say this as far as our refusal is concerned, as far as the Council of Europe is concerned. We are negative for Montenegrin or Montenegro, a state which has no good examples of writing in terms of the complexity, corruption and trafficking, in particular, of cigarette smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u32	As far as I can see from Merra25, Mrs. Bakada is not here, but she's my friend, Mr. Gregoriadis. You guys gonna talk to her for a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u33	Yeah, I'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u34	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u35	If you don't mind, I'm coming to Stepma, because I've forgotten my glasses and I want to see the minister as I address her. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone's glasses were made, because I know that you would all share it with me, but, unfortunately, everyone has their own peculiarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will begin with what I said at the outset, that I wanted to get up here to look at you, Minister, in the eyes. I understand that a pandemic is one thing that moves uncontrollably, takes a turn that no one expects, and all these things are data and understandable. But I would like to ask you this: have you gone to the theater. Did you go to the theater since the fall? I went yesterday, Mrs. Mendoni, and perhaps saw the most important actor in our country right now, Mrs. Renny Pittaki, in her general test. It was her general test after two and a half months and three months rehearsals, for which Mrs Pittaki, who is not even a child, serves this space half a century. She did three months of rehearsal, did a general test and played a unique performance in her premiere. I don't mention it for Mrs. Pitaki. It is an example and has an example, which I am lending is perhaps the largest of the actors we have in life in this country. I mean, it doesn't make any exceptions to that barbarity. What's the barbarity, Minister? Barbarity is specific. You left not only the people of the theatre who are mine, you left the singers, you left all the artists, the dancers, the dancers, the filmmakers, you left a world of hundreds of twenty-thousand people working for three months unpaid, allegedly - and I hope that you would have all the good intention of doing so - the positions that you did not understand, when things were darkened in the last week, without any particular thought, without any particular difficulty, without being tortured - one would say about it - the first thing that you closed was culture. I'm telling you only: the day before I went to this premiere in this general trial, it was a theater with a capacity of 100 people. We were 30, and we were heated at the entrance. They gave us antiseptic for our hands at the entrance and our distances were longer than I am here with my dear fellow Members. I assure you of that. Therefore, I felt particularly safe in this area and not just safe, safe as if I were at home. These measures didn't fall out of the sky, you took them and that's why I felt safe and well and you did them. I say, then, that you should weigh the conditions. You have a scientific committee of the best in Europe, which warned you. He was telling you how this pandemic would go. All models showed it. Yesterday, I was with Mr. Chiodra and Mr. Kiklia. They didn't fall off the clouds. All models showed a rapid increase in the epidemic over the next period. So, first of all, you should not close the first hour - let me say - the first second of civilisation, not because culture is privileged in relation to taxis or in relation to people working waiters in the focus, but because - like them, culture - has been brutally beaten by February. And he hasn't just been hit by COVID. It has been hit - I am sorry to say this - by February's irreversible government policy. Because as I am well aware of this - and we are twelve thousand actors - only the two thousand, two and a half thousand have managed to get this famous eight-chail for the first one and a half months and the 534 euros for the next two. HOME informed us about this the other day with Mr. Varoufakis. We have been told that the best case of those representing, from a hundred to twenty thousand people, is some people who got - listen to it, ladies and gentlemen - the first 850 euros for a month and a half and once or twice took 534 euros for another two months. But, since then, it's been eight months. Since then no one, according to the GOD, representing them, got anything. At the same time, I can assure you that most of my colleagues who know them well did not get anything directly in the first place as they are invisible to you. So I'm telling you, there's a way to stop being invisible. I've told him a long time ago. I will not discuss the fact - I imagine it was a blow you committed - that you said we were moving in the field of black work. We're not moving. Our bosses are moving us. They're moving us with the gun to the head. We are told: "You will get black money or you will not have a job", "Or you will get black money or you will have half of your pay", so you will not be able to live. I also want to tell you that there is a way to secure my fellow Members, who have worked all this time in the summer that you did this: "All Athens a civilization" has not been paid, because various ills, unscrupulous producers, pressing on the COVID -19 said: "I don't have to pay you. I'll give you when I have it." One way is if it wants a state to protect people working in culture: collective agreements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. You have said, Minister, that this is not the solution to the problem. Believe me, I work thirty-seven years as an actor, these are the solution to the problem. I will only close in a second, Mr President, and immediately leave you alone. I'd like to say we had police force. We had anarchist violence last week. Some unbelievable fascists pretending to be anarchists or leftists went and caught a dean and imprisoned him in the way Nazis pierced the Jews. They're unacceptable. My hair is picking up, just to think about it, the dean with a sign like a donkey alive, to say: 'I support the occupations'. That's fascism. And whoever pretends to be the anarchist or the communist, the anti-communist or the leftist, does fascist is fascist forever from that moment. However, I did not see Mr Chrysochoidis pleading with EUR 100,000 or with EUR 10 000 Mr Papa, who is a national killer and has been missing for months from the country. They were the ones who appealed to them right away. He also took care of the two Golden Dawn and Anarchist concentrations - because it was at the same time in New Heraklion, where I live - to ban them. But when the anarchists finally did the gathering far away, in Galachi, I don't understand why he had to send with heavy cranial brain injuries four of them to the hospital? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u38	Please clear the Step. Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I will close my fellow Members' suggestions with New Zealand, saying that we are being linked with strong friendship ties, while at political cooperation level, our two countries are working together in dealing with international crises, as well as with current issues of international interest. In New Zealand there is a growing interest in learning the Greek language, while in five universities there are equal seats of classical Greek studies, three of which operate for over a hundred years. We've got a lot of friends. In addition, it is important that the work carried out by the Hellenic Orthodox Church of New Zealand, while the about five thousand Greek expatriates of the first, second and third generation who live there do well to trade in arts and sciences, having become an integral part of its society. In the arts sector New Zealand has become a leading player in the shooting of films with great revenues, since this year in a difficult year only four major productions will bring them $650 million and three thousand direct jobs, as we will present in the Minutes, all together. So something could be learned from New Zealand. Finally, in addition to the development of cultural cooperation in all areas of modern culture, including literature, visual and visual arts, music and cinema, with New Zealand, we could learn from the turn of its economy in productive sectors such as agriculture, trade, fisheries and industry. The primary sector of New Zealand, with a population of just 4.8 million, produces $40 billion or about 7% of its GDP of $200 billion. For comparison Greece produces less than 6 billion people. It produces so much, since it has introduced modern automation, robotic and artificial intelligence technologies several years ago - not recently, long ago - and it has been a recently tested dog of American "BOSTON DYNAMICS" as a guardian for grazing herds without workers. However, the recipe that followed was very simple: the freezing of public spending in the early 1990s, which in five years' time was reduced by over 10%, in parallel with the reduction of taxes, that is exactly the opposite of what we in Greece do and continue all these years, despite the fact that our country went bankrupt. This is a really neoliberal policy, not the current government that constantly increases the public, increasing the twin deficits and the twin debt, while treating property owners as if Greece were North Korea, exercising social policy with their own money without a trace of shame. Italy, too - and I would remind you here - supports the tenants, but not the owners. So, however, New Zealand has managed to have surpluses in its budget, by drastically changing its productive model and reducing its debt, with the exception of the period of crisis, as we will present in the Minutes, with its public debt, but today just 19% of its GDP. Ours has already exceeded 200% of GDP. In our analysis in the past, we had written: New Zealand, despite the enormous importance it attaches to agriculture, is distinguished by the lowest percentage of support for its farmers in the OECD countries with 1% of the total value of its agricultural production, compared with an average of 18%. In addition, despite participating only 2% in world milk production, the country held the impressive 20% on world markets in 2005. While its primary agricultural production has a value of EUR 7 billion, it exports processed goods from these products, valued EUR 23 billion. This is how a country's economy operates, which is not at all difficult, provided it has a competent government with vision, with objectives and a proper method of achieving them, without constantly burdening its citizens. Of course, we are voting in favour of the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u40	Now let's go to Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, a parliamentary representative from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, one of the three issues that we are discussing today is the adoption of the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes affecting Cultural Goods. Of course, in order to deal with crimes, cultural goods must be produced beforehand. Most of all, there should be people of culture who just create. I fear very much that in the conditions in which we have been living, in recent months in our own country, they will become increasingly obstacles to cultural creation. And that's your responsibility. You know, people of culture have not chosen to deal with culture to get rich or to make money. Most of them also work in the focus so they can take a walk. And note the irony, now with the pandemic, is that they won't even have that possibility. So in the face of this situation, your Government, as in other areas, but now we are talking about culture, has left these people in their luck. I don't know if you've read the news lately. They've been reintroduced in Thessaloniki for artists. You had spoken of some protocols that got out late. We all understand the need here for these people to be bravely supported and you, with what you have announced and given the reduced budget this year, are basically condemning these people. You condemn them to tolerance. Instead, instead of an organised point of intervention, which would try to support all people of culture through concrete measures, depending on the specificities of each sector, what have you chosen for through the Prime Minister? Contact with the personalities, by circumventing the legitimate expressions, the collective expressions of this space. So you met on television, once again following the media recipe, following the communication strategy - with various personalities, to discuss the various issues of culture. That is why you collected the protest from both the Panhellenic Federation of View and Acroama and from the Association of Greek Actors and from the dance workers and the Greek singers and from the Teachers' Association. They're all against you. You put them against you because you ignored them. You spoke about the register that concerns these people and proved to be a bubble, while you see that other events, such as the resignation of the board of directors of the Hellenic Film Center, show that you are not doing well in the cultural sector. So no forecast for the second pandemic wave. We've all been waiting for it. You tell me here you didn't make a provision for hospitals, you didn't make a provision for the IFs. Did the Prime Minister come out in a dictionary the other day and did not feel the need now that human beings have the greatest health crisis to talk about - about what? - to support the public health system. He didn't. He didn't! With great ease you move responsibility to each individual. So your responsibilities tried to cover them. With what? With inappropriate communication. Madam Minister, as things go, you drive the country into a vast cultural cemetery and I fear very much that to a very large extent this will have your signature. And since we are very close to a critical date, the debate - and Mrs Anagnostopoulou said so just now in her speech - to the Council of State on the issue of the antiquities of Venizelos in Thessaloniki, we would like a clear answer if you finally met with the President of S.A. What did you say? Did the Prime Minister know? Have you acted on your own? Was she in consultation with the Prime Minister? Why connect your name to a blow in the history of the city of Thessaloniki, with a blow to antiquities? Why, anyway, are you changing a historically shaped landscape, which has been respected over time for decades? They told you that it is not 'lego' antiquities. But you insist on a slippery road. Only the legacy is fragile and we should respect it. Culture and the people of culture are oxygen for society. We wear the masks so we don't get in touch with the virus. But the oxygen of culture cannot be deprived in these difficult conditions to ordinary people. You have a huge responsibility. Take back the history of Venizelos antiquities. At least listen to the voice of the people of culture in Greece and Europe, even now, at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u42	Good. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Bougas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after France and Austria were attacked yesterday by terrorists. European citizens who exercise the elementary, as much as self-evident, right conferred on them by the western way of life have fallen victim to religious fanaticism and intolerance. The peoples of Europe have the will, the strength, and the means to defend the right to freedom of expression, to freedom of thought and to freedom of choice. No one's going to terrorize us. We express our sincere condolences and our full solidarity with the citizens of France and Austria and state our unscrupulous will, to continue to live freely in an open European society. As far as the conventions currently being ratified are concerned, I shall speak, Mr President, because of the limited time for the Council of Europe Convention. This Convention on cultural offences was adopted at the Council of Europe Ministerial Council of Nicosia on 19 May 2017 in the context of the Cyprus Presidency. Greece is among the countries - members of the Council of Europe who signed this Convention. I must note here the enormous importance that our country attaches to the Council of Europe as a guardian of the common principles and values of its Member States. Greece also attaches great importance to the status of the European Court of Human Rights as guarantor of the Treaty on the Protection of Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the mandatory application of the court's decisions strengthens Europe's security. The contract to be ratified replaces the existing European Convention on offences relating to cultural goods, known as Delphi Convention. The universal ideals of Delphi inspired in June 1985 the representatives of the States to adopt the Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods in the city of Delphi. It is unfortunate, however, that the latter has not entered into force internationally, because apart from Greece, it has been signed by five Member States of the Council of Europe, and no one has ratified it. The cultural heritage is known to be the subject of various organizations such as UNESCO, while other international conventions on stolen or illegally exported cultural goods are involved in the subject. The contract under ratification does not copy but supplements existing and completes the protection of cultural goods with the provisions providing for criminal sanctions. In other words, it regulates the relevant issues from the point of view of criminal law and provides for investigation, prosecution and convicting of the perpetrators. This tripartite is essential. In order to limit the infringement of cultural goods, it is not enough to investigate the relevant cases and to prosecute those who destroy cultural goods by retaining pieces to sell them later on in markets that are not strictly supervised. Responsibility must also be sought to those who are trying to buy these items, knowing that it is the result of unlawful action. The contract is important for countries with masterpieces such as Greece, Cyprus and Italy. It is equally important, however, to attach to the tank other countries of origin of such goods either from the Middle East or North Africa, but also countries where these goods are ultimately sold in Europe or North America. That is why the convention has been drawn up in such a way that it accepts the accession of third countries which are not members of the Council of Europe, since its main objective, namely the protection of cultural goods, is universal. The openness of the contract gives the message that cooperation with countries not participating in the Council of Europe is necessary in order to achieve its objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, no legal instrument can guarantee that the offences will not be repeated. It can, however, help to prevent such criminal activities in the future. Our country is doing everything it can to prevent, in the light of its principles, values and international obligations. Many Member States also have tragic losses in their cultural heritage in the past due to war, plundering of theft or otherwise. Cyprus, which promoted the contract signed in Nicosia, has a relatively recent experience of 1974 with the invasion of Attila, which opened the way for the destruction and plundering of various archaeological or religious sites in the northern part of the island. Our country has experienced this experience many times, as is the case today in states that are not far away from us, such as Syria and Libya. We must not forget, finally, that in Constantinople for the sake of religious purposes there is an unprecedented attack and destruction of Orthodox Byzantine Christian monuments belonging to the world's cultural heritage and being an estate of all mankind. The modern and civilised world cannot stand by this crime, and that is a reason not to vote against, but rather to vote in favour of the convention under discussion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate here of course ends with the Minister who will be closed. I see three people of culture in the Chamber. I cannot handle the Rules of Procedure so much. No way. One, for example, Mr Skouroliakos, in order not to blame the two ladies - they are from the same place - and only one, if he wants three minutes, will take the floor for the equitable reasons, and Mr Callian will also take the floor for the equivalency, if he wants it, for three minutes. One of the three will take the floor. Not all three. I can't do it. The President will clean me up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u45	Let colleagues choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u46	Let's not waste time. I said speak to you, Mr. Darkness as an older man. You have the floor for three minutes, from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I am optimistic. Culture will bloom again. His people will spend better days. Two things must happen: firstly, we must end with the pandemic and, secondly, this government must leave. It's really gonna be a lot better. But until then, unfortunately, culture is in a bad place. The decision to close the premises is incomprehensible. That is what my colleagues have said. I really respect the positions and opinions of scientists. Only we don't know them. We do not know what is being discussed at these meetings that are being recommended to the government. We're learning what the government decides. What the infectious, the intrinsic, we do not know, and that is a big issue. Of course, okay, since they've got to shut down, close up, but there's something we need to do with these people. These allowances are funny, they're not about anyone. There are so many prerequisites that they don't concern anyone. The record? What record? That bubble, that joke? No one was written. Eighteen thousand of the fifty-five-five-five-five thousand artists were written according to their statement. Mr President, you will be able to declare a conductor and register in your statement. Nobody's asking for anything. Attracting policies, changing the data. Urban non-profit companies have been waiting since spring for these 2,000 euros, which have not yet come. On 25 June the Minister asked the Ministry for an interest in a grant. It was sufficient to submit an appropriate document showing that a natural or legal person has invested in theatrical production. Two months after the deadline, other information was requested. Electronic proof was requested, costs for a number of things within two days for productions that the Ministry would decide after subsidising or not. What we say every three minutes is that we give so little money here, so little money there, concerns very few, Mr President, very few people. And otherwise, people go through the back door of the minister's office with direct assignments. I'm fine! However, we must take care of everyone and not just a few different and selected people. It needs support, in tax-free allowances, at this difficult time. Do you know what the government tells us? That guys in Europe are closed. They are closed, but the government does not tell us that in Spain, for example, the state grants 70% to 80% of the wage of the artist who remains unemployed at this difficult time. It's used, I'm afraid, as an alibi, the coronary monster to hit civilization. Culture is currently facing a humanitarian crisis. Mr. Skourletis said so before. Symbols we have in Thessaloniki. I'm afraid we don't have any more in there. We have exhausted what stocks of persuasive stocks we had to explain, since they do not know what the situation is, since we are in this area forty and forty-five years. We've spent our whole life facing us from high to high with leaks, with fixed articles, with vulgarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Calliano, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief in a few seconds. Once again I see SYRIZA's colleagues, unfortunately, throwing the ball on the platform. 90% of the things they have said, the issues that have been discussed throughout this procedure are out of place and time. This is where we talked about three specific conventions. The Minister has tabled exactly her thoughts on the specific conventions to discuss them in committee and vote. It is a good thing for the country that comes, the vote on these conventions. I don't think that's negative. It seems clear that the efforts of the Ministry of Culture to harmonize with the logic and reality and with positive results for our country, but unfortunately, once again, what I said before, and I find the problem with SYRIZA's colleagues, are throwing the ball at the platform. Previously, it has been said that they appoint people to the Ministry from behind the doors, that is, a thousand two things which really have nothing to do with what we were called upon to be here today to discuss these sanctions. I'm really sorry. That's not opposition. The right and reasonable opposition also helps the government. It also helps the government obviously to listen to the views of other parties, but this thing is without rivers! That is to say, whatever the government in question finds it negative - and here too - and throws the ball at the platform with problems and issues from other issues, which have nothing to do with what we have been called today and we are here to discuss. I'm really sorry. This is not a serious opposition. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u50	I'm sorry, but what we're going to say in the House is not going to be judged by Mr. Callianos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u51	Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, let me tell you. I will certainly not judge a colleague from another party, but I could judge it myself and read the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure which gives me the right to close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u52	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u53	Sir, he appealed to me. I answer. I have never done so in the twenty-five years that in this House and in the seven that I am in the Bureau, I will never do so. But don't tell me now that we're both in the Rules of Procedure. I let the conversation evolve. I didn't interrupt anyone. I could do it. Well, Mrs. Minister, who has a perpetual patience and great dignity without interrupting anyone, listen to what she has heard, has the floor. I'll put them on for 15 minutes. If you wish, Mrs. Mendoni, you will answer. If not, you are not required by the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. I know the Rules of Procedure of the House. I'll answer, I'll probably comment on two or three things that have been heard. First of all, I would like to assure the Members of all the parties that the Ministry of Culture back door does not exist literally. Back door doesn't exist. The door is one, and it's on the view of everyone. Let's get things cleared up. Try, ladies and gentlemen, to convince, come and come back that the people of culture are not interested in this government. It bothers you to listen to numbers because maybe the numbers are difficult to deal with and are difficult to disprove. But you will listen to them not now, but to parliamentary control properly, when their time comes. Because, whether we like numbers or do not like them speak more than words and theories. We have heard that the Prime Minister and I have chosen to appear on televisions with personalities of the cultural area. Another make news. I do not think you can see any plans from the Prime Minister or from me with any personality, what you have just called the personalities of the cultural area, not a single shot, because there were very simply no plans. Listen, it is the duty of every minister - and at least that is how I understand it - to speak and speak with the unions. I have to. It's within my duties. But my own duty - and I have the freedom in addition - is to speak with individual artists. And that is within the limits of my obligations: individual artists. However, because you spoke of exploitation - I repeat - there is no plan, there is no photograph of any of them that you do not mean or imply. The register has been called a bubble. The truth is, you have a tendency to deceive it. But it doesn't matter. It's important what one's doing. And after all, it's true. In this record, called "fusca", people are found and recorded, who will receive the allowance, which is only because they belong to the register and are not detected and recorded in other files. And they - believe me - are several thousand. Finally, you insist on the committee, you insist on every debate we have in the House, reaching the metro in Thessaloniki. ‘Common psalm crossings’. Friday is the Council of State. Let the judges stand trial. We will not try the subway here, and in fact three days before the Council of State. Let us not create such impressions. Mr. Constantopoulos was mentioned in the Parthenon sculptures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u55	Did you go to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u56	The Council of State let it be tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u57	Did you go, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u58	The Parthenon's sculptures. You mentioned, Mr Constantopoulos. I tell you that the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the committees, has drawn up a systematic plan for the sculptures of the Parthenon. And this plan is evolving. We know how to use the momentum to the extent that we can use it. And I assure you that we remain faithful at the very beginning that Greece cannot accept the British Museum and any other museum, as the owner and lawyer of the Parthenon sculptures, as they are the product of theft, thus the product of an illegal act. And now come through this in today's debate on contracts. As I have stressed and before the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the initiative to adopt the current arrangements is part of a more general plan to support, promote and promote all forms of cultural action with a view to exploiting the country's entire cultural stock and encouraging the production of all kinds of culture. On this point I would just like to point out that this initiative was taken very soon, immediately after the elections, because I consider it essential to adopt the current regulations as they were accepted when the relevant conventions were recorded. I shall begin with the Convention on Cultural Cooperation between the then Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the New Zealand Ministry of Culture and Heritage. This agreement was signed in 2011 and through it strengthens the interest in more effective and wider cultural cooperation between the two States in all areas of culture, as well as in understanding the respective cultures. The same goes for the adoption of the Agreement on Montenegro, and in this case we have a ratification of an agreement which leads to more effective cooperation in all areas of culture and promotes the partnership between the two countries in the field of the protection and promotion of cultural heritage, as well as greater cooperation in the field of contemporary culture. Adoption of the two agreements is for the sake of strengthening the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport with the relevant bodies of other states in support of and support for culture, particularly modern culture and it is for the benefit of the European Union to complement the actions we have taken to support those who have been working with culture, who have been experiencing the real adverse consequences of the pandemic for months. We conclude the Council of Europe Convention on cultural property offences, which, as I said before and before the committee, was adopted at the ministerial meeting of the Council of Europe in Nicosia in May 2017 as part of the Cyprus Presidency of the Council of Europe. I would like to point out that Greece was one of the first members of the council to sign the convention. The convention to be ratified replaces the existing European Convention on Violences in Cultural Goods, adopted in 1985, but has not entered into force internationally, because in addition to Greece it has been signed by just five Member States of the Council of Europe and no one has ratified it so far. The initiative for the new Convention belongs to the European Commission for the problems of the Council of Europe and is a key institutional step in combating the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, which is being alarmed by its interconnection with terrorism and organised crime. Greece, with its national legislation under the basic pillars of Law 3028/2002 and Law 3658/2008 by ratifying international conventions such as the 1970 UNESCO Convention, the UNIDROIT Convention, but also by concluding bilateral and tripartite memorandums of cooperation to prevent and prevent the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, has already established a strong framework for the protection of cultural heritage against illicit trafficking, as is proposed by the signing of a contract. Besides, addressing the archaocaust is a top priority, not only for the Ministry of Culture and Sport, but also for the Government. In this context last month, the first meeting of the Interministerial Committee provided for in Article 14 of Law No.3658/2008 was held in order to combat the archaocaust which was responsible for coordinating all the bodies involved. During the work of the committee, we asked the Ministry of Justice to appoint a special prosecutor specialising in the law of the cultural environment and the movement of cultural goods with a specific mandate and competence, as well as a coordinating role for all of Greece, so that there would be common handling of the relevant cases. The second issue we raised was the disposal, in accordance with the same law, of the Ministry's Directorate responsible for Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods, of an officer of the Department of the Archipelagokape of the Department of Security at Attica as a link to ensuring the cooperation between this department and the Greek Police. I have already said and announced that our goal and design is to modernise the existing legislation of 2008 on the protection of cultural goods and the fight against archaocapilia. The forthcoming legislative initiative will include structural changes and control mechanisms and will provide for all the necessary means that technology today provides us with in order to take all appropriate measures to overthrow the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. I return to the Nicosia Convention and note that although the latter does not explicitly provide for the criminalisation of the illicit trafficking in cultural goods as an autonomous form of crime, the States Parties undertake to criminalise all the specific aspects of this complex crime. It is of particular importance that international cooperation is strengthened to combat these forms of crime. I won't take your time to talk about individual articles, but I will stay in the spirit of the contract. However, one of its basic innovations is Article 13, which lays down specific provisions on the liability of legal persons in relation to the offences described in the contract, provided that they are committed for the benefit of the legal person by a natural person acting either individually or as a member of the legal person and holding a leading position in it. It provides that the liability of legal persons may be criminal, civil or administrative and shall be subject irrespective of the criminal liability which the natural person who committed the offence may bear. In addition, the third chapter of the Convention contains provisions of procedure which guarantee the authoritarianity of prosecuting the offences referred to therein and the obligation of States Parties to take the necessary measures to ensure that the services carrying out the investigations are specialised in combating the illicit trafficking of cultural goods and cooperate to the greatest extent possible for the purposes of the investigations and procedures carried out in relation to the offences referred to in the Convention. The Convention takes into account and is based on existing international and regional conventions and other legal texts for the protection of cultural goods such as the UNESCO Convention on Measures taken to prohibit and prevent the illegal importation, export and transfer of the ownership of cultural goods and the International Institute for the Conservation of Private Law 1995 on stolen or illegally exported cultural goods. With the ratification by the Greek Parliament of the Council of Europe Convention on Violences in Cultural Goods, it opens the way for the Convention to enter into force, as it requires ratification, acceptance and approval by five signatory States, provided that at least three will be members of the Council of Europe. The international institutional framework acquires another valuable tool and Greece contributes substantially to this by this draft law. It is very important to realise that archaeological fraud is an internationally organized crime. The internationalised nature of the archipelago also requires the internationalisation of their efforts. It is not just the national law of each Member State. We need internationalisation. Thus, despite the fact that it has a very strict legislation on offences against cultural goods, Greece has every reason to proceed not only to ratification but to the overall strengthening of this convention. The question is that there should also be strict international legislation in all the countries concerned so that it will gradually become extremely difficult for the archaic people to find suitable ground for the disposal of illegally moved cultural goods. That is why our national interest is demanding not only that we ratify this Convention, but that we be meaningful in trying to promote internationally, so that it can be signed and ratified by as many states as possible, whether they are members of the Council of Europe or not, until at some point, that this Convention, the Nicosia Convention, should be given a dynamic equivalent force to that of the 1970 UNESCO Convention on measures taken to prohibit and prevent illegal imports, export and transfer ownership of cultural goods, which is so broadly accepted that it is now being dealt with as international customary law. In other words, it operates as a binding criterion for checking the legality of acts even in Member States which have not ratified it. In view of the above, I consider it very important to vote on all three conventions by Parliament. I urge you to accept the proposals of the Ministry of Culture and thus contribute to the dissemination of Greek culture, the creation of a new basis for contemporary artistic creation and, above all, the fight against the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and their vote will be taken separately. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Strengthening the Arrangement of Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (hereafter the Ministry of Culture and Sport) of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage of New Zealand". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u61	The positions of the parties as reflected in the vote on the electronic system are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u62	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Structuring the Arrangement of Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (formerly the Ministry of Culture and Sport) of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage of New Zealand", was accepted in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u63	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Culture Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u65	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u66	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Culture Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro", it was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u67	We move on to vote on the principle of the articles and on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Statement of the Council of Europe Convention on Violences relating to Cultural Goods and Implementing Provisions'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u69	The positions of the parties as reflected in the vote on the electronic system are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u70	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Statement of the Council of Europe Convention on offences relating to cultural goods and implementing provisions’ was accepted by a single majority debate on the principle of Articles and of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u72	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-03-S1-commons.u73	With the agreement of the House at 17.12 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 4 November 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
