ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 24-2-2020 authorisation, the PR's minutes of 13 September 2017, on Monday 24 February 2020, concerning the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, blunt and persons with other problems in the reading of forms and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society’]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for the waiver of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Constantine Vlasis and Evangelos Syrigos. Here, allow me to remind you. After the Revision of the Constitution and, in particular, Article 62 of the Constitution, the third paragraph of Article 62, as you know, has been revised and if the offence is not committed in the performance of the duties of the Member, says our Constitution now that immunity is abolished. I'm going to read the layout, so we can all remember it: ‘This authorisation shall be granted by the Parliament where the request of the public prosecutor concerns an offence which is not linked to the performance of the duties or to the political activity of the Member.’; After that, we also applied this provision in the Ethics Committee, and unanimously the committee said that immunity must be waived because there is no conflicting position, that is, that the offences were not committed in the performance of the duties. They did not do so in the performance of their duties and the committee therefore decided. Of course, there is also the provision of Rule 83. I would remind you of the Rules of Procedure, where, if politically appropriate, etc., the House can decide otherwise. However, this case in our committee did not arise or be asked by colleagues who will give you their views. Before we move on to this issue, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Secure reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.).). Also, there is a request to the President of the Greek Parliament Mr. Konstantinos Tasulas from the MP of the Change Movement and former Prime Minister Mr. George Papandreou, who seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad from 25-2-2020 to 27-2-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are now coming to our point. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 18 February 2020 that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed, as I said, the lifting of the immunity of Mr Constantine Vlassi. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also announced the report on 18 February 2020 that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the waiver of the immunity of Mr. Evangelos (Evangelos) of Syria should be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that according to a decision of the Conference of Presidents on 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns my colleague Mr Constantine Vlassi. Mr. Comrade, would you like to take the floor for five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u3	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u4	Mr Vlassis does not wish to take the floor. Is there a colleague on this request in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the House? There isn't. The second case concerns Mr Evangelos Syrigo. Mr. Syrigos, would you like to take the floor for five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u6	Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a case that goes back to 2005. In January 2005 an earthquake took place and followed a tsunami in Southeast Asia. Then about EUR 25,000 was collected from the Greek people's charity and a mechanism was created to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the proper management of this money. In the affected areas, a step has been taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which in consultation with the local governments has decided to come up with a programme under the UN - I stress this - financing mainly schools and hospitals. I am accused of having participated in an opinion - and I stress this - of a committee for the first approval of the construction of school buildings in Sri Lanka. Did I participate in another stage beyond the initial opinion? Oh, no. Did I participate in the contracts, the evaluation of the projects or the disbursement of any amount? Oh, no. Have the buildings been built? Yeah, schools were built. Did this committee decide? Oh, no. He was only an opinion. Does the opinion in favour of a programme entail automatic financing? Oh, no. Who was the recipient of the committee's recommendations? He was the Foreign Minister, who had the authority to accept or reject the committee's recommendation. What was the work of the Advisory Committee, in which I was involved? He had to check only the formal elements, i.e. the registration of non-governmental organisations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' register, their solvency regarding the projects that were interested in performing in Sri Lanka following the Sri Lanka's Greek and governmental agreement, and their prior experience in projects. In order to guarantee the Greek State, we had added as an additional condition that whoever was interested in these projects had to submit a guarantee letter, except until then for the procedures followed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is why, at the end of the eight hundred non-governmental organisations that came to present proposals, only four appeared. One of them was the Red Cross or the "Doctors of the World". Then, after the committee completed its work and confirmed that the procedure is correct and they can be involved, the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the NGOs, formulated the technical specifications of the project. Last point. Who came from the proposals we discussed? From the agreement of the two governments, Greece - Sri Lanka, under the UN. The main question is why is it - we are talking about a 2005 case - now the case. Because the relevant evidence has been sent to the prosecutor since 2005 in 2016, eleven years after this alleged scandal was discovered. Why? Because the then head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided to find scandals. If they weren't, the worse the scandals. We'd find it. A vehicle was used as a retired ambassador, who returned to the service solely for the purpose of building guilty persons. He is the same person, who has occasionally sent the prosecutor the leading Byzantineists, Manousa or Chrysa Maltese. Because of this man, almost all officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been sent to the prosecutor so far. In the House, only the case - an advisory committee, I would remind you - is five thousand pages. Of the many cases that have so far been sent to the prosecutor, six have been closed so far: the four with an acquittal, one with a trial and one put by the interrogator in the file. I think it's a classic case of abuse of power. We use institutions to deceive and degrade people until their innocence turns out after years. I want my immunity to be waived. I stress that. I asked myself for it. Indicative of my desire was that they were called by the interrogator on 2 July 2019, i.e. two days after the elections, when I knew that I had been elected a Member. And I chose to apologize the next day, before I swore, precisely because I wanted to show that I wanted this case to be fully cleared up. I did not know until then that the Constitution would be revised, Mr President. So I couldn't count on it. I really think you should lift my immunity. And please too much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u8	Is there a colleague who, in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, wants to speak? No, there isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the vote includes two different cases of the removal of immunity from Members. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u9	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from my fellow Members, Mr Constantine Vlassi and Mr Gospel (Angelou) Syrigo. A total of 166 Members voted on the first case by Mr Constantine Vlasi. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', three Members voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the second case by Mr Evangelos (Evangelos) of Syria, a total of 152 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 148 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 4 Members voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. The result of the electronic roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u11	Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, I propose to interrupt for five minutes, because the start for the first 13.00 hours has been determined. Do you accept this point to interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u12	So we're interrupting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.(')'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 February 2020 to discuss the draft law at three meetings, one on the principle of articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u14	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the first rapporteur, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Tsakalotos has asked to speak. Here, Mr Chakalote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I would like an intervention for three minutes for the events on the islands of the northern Aegean that we have seen yesterday and today. I begin with a speech: "What is happening in Mytilini and the other islands is the greatest proof of the management failure of the current government. A failure due to both ideoleptic obsession and provocative inability. It is only in this matter that the Prime Minister cannot do what he is accustomed to, to load his own responsibilities on others. Failure is all his.” And it continues with a proposal: "In the immediate decongestion of the islands of the eastern Aegean". This is the critical word: 'decongestion'. "The islands of the eastern Aegean cannot raise their own weight and especially the islands of the north and east Aegean have exceeded the possibility of hosting refugees and immigrants. This must be changed." Ms.Mitsotakis on 3 February 2017. What happened, colleagues of the New Democracy, with decongestion? What about the state at last? Why did you decide that it is not the key to decongestion but the deterrence? Why are you driving from a right rhetoric Voridis - Samaras and not holding what your Chief said in February 2017? How do you explain that four times over are the refugees on these islands right now? How do you deal with this situation? With closed centers? And when in the closed centers the islanders react, you make them a property charge, and when they react to their property order, you send the MATs and beat the world? Is that your answer? And to cover this, do you have Mr. Petsa say that because we have viruses there must be closed centers because public health is at stake? Where's that effectiveness? And where's this state at last? Why do we have to see this as early as August 1914, when the German Army General Staff promised Kaiser that it would be Christmas in Paris and three years later and three million victims Kaiser had won an area that corresponds to half a football field 7x7. And anyway, if you can't have an effective state and until you make it up this effective state, can you prove any humanism? Can you prove that you are the great liberal party supposed to have human rights? [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What is happening, which you have taken back all the promises you have made to the Greek people about decongestion, you must explain them to the Greek people and you must do with humanism and with respect for rights. We see neither effective nor rights, and less of all we see humanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u16	Now we're all gonna take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u17	In my opinion, the matter was wrongly opened, but, in any case, I now have to ask all Parliamentary representatives upwards if they want to take the floor for three minutes. I'm starting with Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u18	One minute will be too long, Mr President. It is clear that when he cultivates an event of pre-election fantasy among the Greeks who live on our islands, that is, when he tells them that by magic the refugee problem will disappear within a week, he will be in the current situation sooner or later. That doesn't surprise us. What really surprises us and Mr Chakalotos is right is this raw violence against our compatriots. She's unexpected. You know well that most of them are your voters, they are not left-wing voters. In fact, I'm telling you a little bit of awkward if you continue to beat them, they'll finally become our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u19	Me, too. Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, thank you very much. Since Mr Tsakalotos opened the debate - we intended to then - today we are living the following: allowances to illegal immigrants and wood to Greeks. That's what we've been living today - since last night. And what image is this and even communication, gentlemen of the New Democracy, coming to the port and getting rid of inside police officers, MATs, cages, water launching machines? Is that a picture? And instead of they coming down - I say now communication - to protect - the Greeks - islanders and have a sense of security more than illegal immigrants, who are more than twice as many Greeks, we protect illegal immigrants and beat Greeks. It's never happened before. This is the New Democracy. What did you say and what do you do? I know most of you are uncomfortable, but it's just time to make decisions, because without breaking omelet eggs it's not possible! You guys are trying a little bit over here, a little bit over there to cover it up. This thing can't be done. You take the Greeks, you understand? They're crying for our islanders! By force checks? The MATs and the cages and the tanks are coming down! What are we living for? Is that possible? Fighting, gentlemen of the New Democracy, your citizens - because that is what you are doing, fighting your citizens - at the same time that these citizens are fighting for their homeland, for their livelihood, for their homeland, for their field, for their sanctuary and for their ancestors' sanctuary - so they fight and go for the Greek Government and fight them - has never happened before! We live it in the year 2020 with you! On the other hand, I would like to say this: Mr Chakalotos said well, but he did not convince anyone, because they are the first to open the borders, they are the first to bring them in with the handfuls here and send them here. Get some more! They're sore, like we're not sore-soul, or we're not humanists, it's just you. But I didn't see you taking anyone in your homes and with foreign money you're calling the shots. You're in charge of the Greek people's money. Don't tell me that it's Europe's money, because it pays the Greek taxpayer, and today on our islands we have a hot episode, thankfully not with the Turks, but unfortunately, we have between the police and Mr. Mitsotakis' state of service with the Greek citizens. That's never happened before. We had SYRIZA who beat the Greeks for the Prespecies Agreement in the lakes and beat them and throw them tear gas and we have New Democracy today to beat and throw tear gas to the Greek citizens who are trying to defend their lives and their islands. Mr President, I have one word to say, because it is going to be a three-day debate, and we have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty-six students and schoolchildren and two educational attendants from the 4th Lamia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u22	We want to denounce in the most emphatically the decisions of the Government and the situation on the islands at present. Instead of sending ships to disembark refugees and transport them out of the islands, which all islanders are asking for, instead of doing so, it is making a breakthrough reminiscent of a military operation and occupation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u23	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u24	Where should they go? In mainland Greece to go! It doesn't fit them! Say what you want, though, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Paphie, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I am having a dialogue because they are interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u27	Ignore the question, and you answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u28	When you signed and said 'yes' in Dublin II, in the agreement with Turkey, which you have all agreed to, to what are the consequences! Therefore, instead of smuggling refugees from there, you entangle the people of both islands with businesses that remind themselves of a state of possession by immovable property. It's literally hell, which we denounced and contacted the Minister of Public Order. It's a hell of a tons of chemicals and beatings. What's this? Unacceptable situation! We're asking for the MATs to leave, retire. The world, the women, the housewives come out and eat from everywhere bombing - is unbelievable! - and plus beatings, where there's evidence of it. This situation is unacceptable. We are asking - I do not want to go into a more general debate - that the MATs be withdrawn now, that they should be ordered to stop the war because from 2.00 p.m. at night, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there is literally hell in what they are throwing and how they throw it! Occupational operations swept through the villages! What's that? Where are we? As for the general and the rest, let us each assume their political responsibilities. When we made concrete proposals on what can be done with the refugees, to leave Turkey directly, your European Union, which you are all pilgrimizing, accepts nothing. If you share three hundred thousand in thirty countries, that's how it gets straight. But she doesn't accept it and you still worship her. This is the European Union, as is the policy of all governments so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, if this suggestion were made in a debate before a draft law on the days of the previous President of the Parliament and of the Vice-Presidents, of course, you would not let us make any position, you would not let this debate take place. Parliamentary representatives have the right during our speech to speak. This is how it happens in the organised debates. [[Noise in the Chamber]] These are institutional trabourisms, but after you have allowed it, I am glad to say, why not? We want to tell the government, firstly, that, apart from the mistakes he has shown - and he admitted it itself - the Ministry of Immigration, other than what I have said ten times in the Chamber, it proves every day that you do not have the courage to support its measures, whatever it is. Secondly, the government has not made it clear what its plan is. Thirdly, it seems awkward and we have to say - and to the government and Members who support it - that one, two, three months have been over for a few weeks as a political deadline - to see where their plan is going. We want to tell them, then, that not only have they been completely unprepared, but every day they pass, they are polyphones and no one can understand where they want to go. They are also cowardly against opposition, because they do not have the courage to say what they have in mind and how they will do it. To conclude, we are faced with a problem as a country that, if we continue to monitor it as a political system, with the conceptions and rights of the last century and with a government which does not exist in this area - what we have seen with the MATs, Mr President, is unacceptable as a scene and as a conception - if this situation continues, we will be caught as a political system and as a country completely incapable of dealing with the top issue that we see in many countries of Europe, in most of which the data of the political systems are changing. People feel abandoned and far-right voices take over from the rightists and win majorities. If we do not agree, then for some time what we know about present correlations of political forces will be a past and in the position of our own political forces it will be different with other political speeches. We call, as a movement of change, for there to be a consensus, for extreme positions to be abandoned from the left or from the right, and for us to concentrate on what the country needs, a government that tells us what it wants to do, because we still do not know it, and a opposition to speak of proposals. No one, but no one will be outside the target of the angry Greek people if this situation continues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u31	And now we are closing up with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, on the 'incident' issue. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Loverdo, please, we have the bill. Mr. Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, the irresponsibility of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - and also of the entire SYRIZA - brings us right now... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u33	Now will you censor the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative? Nobody bothered Mr. Tsakalotos. Mr. Levane, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u34	The irresponsibility of SYRIZA, both within Ethiopia and outside, obviously comes to cover the lack of your policy on immigration and refugee issues and the lack of your strategy on general policy issues but, of course, also the problematic position in which you are today to come to defend the alleged Katorugalos law. So are you coming here today and with the tolerance of the Bureau you are opening an issue that he is doing? It shoots populism from both sides. That's right, Mr. Loverdos said, you can tolerate that and you're causing it. You are causing populism, but, above all, you are causing the extremist voices and you do not have your mind to think about what you are causing and what comes in the future. I will not answer you, Mr. Chakaloto, as Kaiser's representative. I will reply to you as a representative of a Prime Minister, who in a democratic way respecting the liberalism of our ideology and our practice, has taken the responsibility, being in charge of you, who are totally irresponsible to the opposition, but especially when you govern. We will tell you once again that we really were surprised by the big flows, we did make mistakes that we corrected. But we have a specific plan which I will analyse in a minute that I have in time. It has been four months in which we have exhausted the dialogue. We are also critical of the Change Movement and other actors, because we have had a lot of dialogue. So we have used the dialogue with local bodies to create closed centres that are part of our policy, and you deny it, because we believe that closed centres are structures that will help our islands and islands, guarantee public health, which you do not want to understand, we will have primary care that you did not do when you were in the government and, of course, will help to ensure public order. We are determined, and this is our job as a government, what you have not done, what we have to do, that is to do our duty. What's our plan? Firstly, the safe guarding of borders. Secondly, the speeding up of asylum that we will be doing in twenty-four days with the ultimate limit coming in two months. What's our target? Very simply - and you can understand it as much as you - the decongestion of the islands. The returns, which are the pillar of our policy, come to deal with the bad agreement or, in any case, the inappropriate agreement from Turkey, which you signed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Levane, you won't say the whole New Democracy programme. It's an incidental matter. In a minute, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u36	You will allow me in a minute and a half to finish my thoughts, Mr President, since you have tolerated this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u37	That's why I can't afford you to spend the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u38	So the returns we make - and you did not - come to give our second pillar and understand that a government is coming - and thankfully there is that government - which is determined to govern, to do the right thing and to assume its duty. It is, however, - and I am closing with this, Mr President - that you must come and move us, when with your ideological obsessions you have opened the borders, you have not taken advantage of the time of mild flows to create structures that will deal with the biggest ones that have come, you have left an absolute mess with the non-governmental organisations' non-controlling of finances, you have not absorbed funds, and you have finally left seventy thousand asylum applications for the next! Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u39	It's all lies you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u40	With Mr Lebanese's speech, the 'incident' issue has been closed and we are starting the bill. Once I read the introductory statements and agree on the procedure, I will give the floor for two to three minutes to Minister Brutsi, who wants to table two studies, so that you can have them from the outset as everyone you are interested in. Now, listen, to make it easier for the conversation. We will be waiting to see how many people will be registered with the second speaker and then with a proposal from the Bureau, the plenary will decide what time we will be finishing today, what time we will be finishing tomorrow and possible time for the day after tomorrow. I say 'possible', because so far the Bureau does not know whether the chairmen of the parliamentary groups will be present and because we feel that there will be a roll-call vote, we will see this on Thursday morning. Now, because as an old man I know how difficult it is to talk about so many articles, there will be a tolerance. First of all, the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives - and I think unanimously I will have your approval - will have a right of secondaryity. And since my fellow Members have known - for many years I have been below - that in seven minutes it is difficult to speak, at least in the first two days there will be a slight tolerance on the part of the Bureau. Are you in agreement on this initial suggestion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u41	Good, the House has agreed. The Minister therefore has the floor to testify to his two studies and then we will start with Mr Vassilis Economou, the rapporteur-general, the electronic record will be opened and will be closed as soon as Mrs Ahtsoglou comes down from the Step. Minister, you have the floor. Don't say too much. You only have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament today welcomes a law - incision, a major structural change, a major reform. It is the new insurance law, which will change and affect the future, not only of today's generations but also of the coming. This historic law, which came to restore the injustices of the past, to align itself with the constitutional order and to restore the unconstitutionality of the SYRIZA Katrugalos law, is before the Greek Parliament. The process has been closed with the most comfortable historical time - never before - and at the level of consultation, two weeks, and with the number of institutions, all forty, when the Katorugalou law had spoken twenty-three, and the debate in plenary will have a comfortable time. For the comfortable, adequate, scientifically substantiated process of dialogue and in plenary, as provided for in the procedure, I submit to the Greek Parliament what has never been done in the past: firstly, the national proportional study, which substantiates the sustainability of the law by 2070, what was the cause of the Katrugalo law and, secondly, the study of pension adequacy, as the Council of State, confirming the Economic University of Athens, which is what was envisaged by the decision of the Council of State. I hope that we have a good, fruitful, constructive dialogue and, at the end, that the logic and this law will be positive for society, for the economy, for the development of our country and for the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Loverdo, don't open a case. You'll tell your place. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u45	Just one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u46	Okay, for a minute, the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u47	First of all, Mr President, after the Minister has spoken, we have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u48	He talked a minute and a half to testify the studies. The Minister did not go over the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u49	It has made a foreword, and we too want to oppose the prologue that changes in adjustment according to provisions which have been considered unconstitutional by the Council of State, are not reform. That's first. Secondly, we have, Mr Brutsis, jointly opposed a provision by Mr Katrugalos, which regarded as a taxable income from 1-1-2019 the payment of the contributions. I have asked you ten times in and out of Halloween if you will abolish it as you said at the time. Now I want to ask you, because we have a suggestion in about half an hour. Our rapporteur must comment on this. Do you have in the draft law the abolition of the paradoxical Katrugalu arrangement, or will you keep it in too? And if you have, because our rapporteur will be placed, we want you to tell us what provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u50	If there was, you'd have seen it. I'm sure of it. There's nothing missing from your eye. So the other was by far. Mr. Economou, come to Stepma and open the electronic record. Mr. Economou, please start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend the insurance bill of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and feel the obligation to start with two major truths.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, respect for the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Economou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u53	Truths raised in the debate in committee. Truths that delineate the country's political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u54	Gentlemen, anyone who doesn't want to hear the rapporteur can come out. It cannot, however, speak at the time of the rapporteur. Keep going, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u55	Really first. The Government believes in its election commitments and in its programme statements, following many important bills, completes the first eight months of its term of office by submitting to the Parliament of the Greeks and the Greek society a law that ensures and serves a sustainable insurance system. This is how it completes its first step, achieving the national construction. Because insurance is a major national issue, since it concerns the life and dignity of Greeks and Greeks. From this government the Greek people expected to reverse the economic recession and social injustice in growth and justice. From this government expects and the next steps in memorandum Greece, which is reborn, for example, is shown in good practice throughout the European area. Really, second. SYRIZA believes in his principles, his ideological payments, his government policy of the period 15-19, loyal to his practice, within and outside Parliament, plunders, lies and pretends to defend social security and labour rights, while in reality he wants once again to deceive the workers, pensioners, the poor and more of all the great middle class of the Greeks, the Greek free trader and trader, the self-employed, the small-medium. The one who suffers, Greece is poor and when it creates, Greece is breathing with jobs and progress. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill I have the pleasure and honour of proposing, on the one hand, replaces the largest insurance abortion which was the product of SYRIZA, the Katrugalos law, and on the other, establishes an insurance law and social law. the law, because it ensures the recompense and free choice of the citizen and of society, because it is sustainable, that is, it does not charge the debts to third parties, that is to say to others. A bill liberal, but also social, which contributes to increasing employment, strengthening entrepreneurship and reducing tax evasion, while re-engaging in insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principles and axes of the new system are as follows: Firstly, this is the simplest system that has ever existed as a national insurance institution, e-ECA, which is also part of the Single European Insurance Fund and one-off benefits for the first time. This is the result of a long effort, which implements the modern need for speed and efficiency, for digitisation. I would like to point out that, in the period 2012-2014, significant steps were taken to modernise, simplify and organise the social security system, which the current government is coming to complete. I would remind you that on 1 July 2013, it was mapped for the first time with absolute social security accuracy in the country with the "ELIOS" system. Two structural changes were also attempted in the same period. The uniform method of payment of pensions through the HRP and the uniform method of collecting insurance contributions through the CRL. For the first time, the monthly electronic submission of the sickly analytical periodic statement and the innovative "ERGANI" system was established to safeguard and enhance the revenues of the insurance funds. Today, with the establishment of the e-ECA, complete, organisational and administrative integration is achieved with three independent and strictly independent economic sectors, with the accounting and financial autonomy of primary pension, subsidiary insurance and one-off provision. This system covers all workers in the country, employed persons, selfemployed persons, selfemployed persons, self-employed persons, farmers, civil servants for all insurance risks of old age, disability, death, major subsidiary accident and one-off benefit. Secondly, for the first time in the history of our country's insurance system, digital pension, an undertaking aimed at facilitating the citizen and minimising the time for completing the administrative procedures required for its award. The government of SYRIZA inherited us over a million outstanding supplementary pensions and one-off pensions, widow's pensions and unions which were never made and which Mrs Ahtsioglou complained about for these figures. Our aim is and we are preparing for this, on 1 June 2020, to award the first digital pensions of the "ATLAS" system. With this reform we are dynamically faced with a situation that is ponding and which we are targeting in the future for future pensioners, who deserve to enjoy the immediate reception of their pensions. Thirdly, the insurance bill is the first bill in the country's history, accompanied by a full specific proportional study on main and secondary pensions and will confirm the viability of the insurance system by 2070. In fact, Minister, we saw you testifying the two studies, in fact, Minister, we saw the former Minister present it with four years' delay from the Katrugalos Act in 2016, in 2020 in committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u56	And in English.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u57	In English, too, the so-called proportionate study of the law at the time. These are to record and show differences in perceptions and practices. Fourthly, for the first time, provisions complying with the judgments of the highest special courts are adopted. I'm talking about 1880/2019, 1888/2019, 1889/2019, 1890/2019 and 1891/2019. It is the assembly of the Council of State and social and security justice, recompense, proportionality and operational freedom are strengthened. Fifthly, the complete disconnection of insurance contributions from the years of insurance and the known classes of the past from income and the increase in the minimum wage. Sixthly, an innovative and compensation system for free choice of insurance contributions is introduced for the first time, where everyone can freely choose the category of their insurance contributions either up or downwards for as long as he wishes, depending on his financial capacity and the expectation of a future pension. This will facilitate the operational design of professionals in the short and medium term and encourage the development of their economic activities. entrepreneurship is no longer punishable, but incentives are being made to develop it. The vast majority of one and a half million free professionals and self-employed people who have paid the marble will benefit from the combination of insurance and taxation. For example, I mention, because there has been a lot of discussion in the committee, that the benefit of the EUR 1.300 resulting from the reduction in income tax of up to EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9% is overestimated and makes a great difference in favour of the taxpayer, if you calculate a marginal reduction perhaps from the first category, and of course in the debate that we cannot compare tax and insurance, it is indeed the two pockets of the same person, where there is more than a thousand euros revenues and overcovering from the previous year that was SYRIZA. The movement of the tie that you so scoffed and charged with unfavourable insurance contributions was what rewarded you, it was Greece of production and growth, which is so anticipated by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Seventhly, all new entrants are given breath and perspective, not only to young doctors, lawyers and engineers who have so far been involved, through low contributions to the first five years of their working life. The new law will not oblige any free professionals after five years to give back, and in any case, of interest, the difference in the reduced contributions and the first insurance category, as the Katrugalos law required, which we had so much hoped for during the opposition period, ours. Ninth, the supplementary pensions for a large number of pensioners are restored as supplementary pensions on the basis of the drafted proportional study continue to be paid from 1 October 2019 to the amount that was established until 31 December 2014. The amount to be paid before tax may not be less than the amount to be paid on 30 September 2019. We estimate that two hundred and sixty thousand pensioners will see increases in their subsidiary pensions and that is a fact. Three categories of free choice of contributions are established for the subsidiary and, respectively, three categories of free choice of contributions for the one. In this way, the insured person’s income is increased on leaving active employment while ensuring the remuneration of the contributions paid as a result of the application of the Intellectual Propertyisation and Intellectual Accounts System for the contributions paid. In the narrow public sector, i.e. civil servants, officials and soldiers, arrangements are adopted in the light of Articles 73(2) and 80 of the Constitution on their special pension scheme. This category of pensioners is part of the ECA, which undertakes the award, execution and payment of their pensions instead of the State. This ensures that their pensions, which continue to function as a follow-up to their remuneration - an institutional guarantee - but for the sake of budgetary sustainability and accounting unity of the system, their pension benefits are in line with the sum of the national pension and the remuneration pension to ensure a fair rate of remuneration, energy and pensions. Finally, the multi-stage primary sector - fishermen, farmers and farmers - is treated with appropriate sensitivity and responsibility, as it forms part of a specific favourable and protective framework for reduced insurance contributions that differ from that of all other free professionals, co-advisers with various parametric provisions, for which particular mention will be made of, for example, the work of retired farmers. Increasingly, the productive reconstruction of the industry, which is the foundation for the national economy, is being stimulated. In conclusion, with the draft law presented today by New Democracy, the effort to rationalise and manage our insurance system is being completed, as the rates of pension pay are significantly strengthened to lead to the replacement of thirty-five years of insurance to 37% of the current 33%, for for forty years of insurance at 50% from 42% and 51% from 46% and forty-two years of insurance. This means an increase of more than seven percentage points for the 40-year period and more than six percentage points for the thirty-five years. It is the first insurance bill after twelve years that will not have a reduction in pensions. On the contrary, there will be increases. The aim of today's government through the new insurance bill is to restore justice for those who have worked harder and, at the same time, to strengthen pension returns. It is clear that a number of objects from the SYRIZA period, such as the cases of widows, disabled persons, the branches of the Armed Forces - we are talking about the frogs, cruisers, bombers and pilots - who had parallel insurance or successive insurance, the many pensioners who wanted to work and, more generally, the retired people who wanted to work and are punished by the laws of SYRIZA today take their breath, regain rights and capabilities and can be optimisticly seen in a country that respects them and treats them with justice and dignity. The insurance reform that we are voting on in this House will leave a strong development reform footprint, after putting social processes on a fair footing now, achieving the social cohesion and social unity required by the times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u58	It is known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of twenty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st Alimos High School. Welcome, guys, to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we welcome the Minister to the National Representation in his official first. We recognise as a positive step that the insurance bill is introduced as a separate bill under normal procedures. The truth is, you haven't gotten used to us so far. Whenever you have legislated, you are doing so with amendments that are hidden behind the bills of other Ministers and even once five minutes before the House closes for the summer holidays. You obviously remember that three-page amendment, with which you lifted half the labour law. In any case, it is a positive development that you have decided this time to legislate in normal procedures and not in secret, and we welcome this gesture, and we are not unaware of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an insurance bill which came to the House after a long period of communal orchestra and extreme propaganda, a communication orchestra that was talking about generalised increases in pensions and generalized reductions in contributions and a communal propaganda such that it actually came to the point of believing it, and the Minister himself, when he came to question frankly why there is a strike in his bill, in the insurance bill. ‘Why can strike be done?’ He honestly wondered, as everything that is doing this bill is so positive and the government arrived at the president of the ADED, who is of the ICES and a candidate MEP of the New Democracy, to call him a "SYRIZA's stepfather", because he participated in the strike. For my part, then, I will try to explain, against propaganda, in simple steps, what the reality of this insurance bill is and why it is reasonable to react. Two sides have the insurance, pensions and contributions. I'm starting with the pensions. Step one, just a given one. The money provided by the New Democracy Government to spend on the 2020 pensions is less than what was provided in 2019. The money that pensioners receive in 2020 in the country is less than what was given in 2019 and that is part of the state budget. I am presenting in the Minutes the budget table showing exactly what I am saying. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Are they considerably less? They're considerably less. It's less than 200 million. It's clean, I think, that. The pie's getting small. First, then, a basic choice and first communication deception by the government, when it talks about generalised increases, is that. Because, as the money to be given to pensioners is less than what was given last year, some will lose, and these are the rules of simple reason and those rules of simple reason tried yesterday by the Minister at the committee meeting to revise them and challenge them, reading figures on the beam and blaming SYRIZA that he was doing as he is today. First of all, let me tell him that the comparison is not proof. Comraison n'est pass raison, say the French. What we are simply pointing out is that one cannot talk about increases when it reduces pension costs. But its own comparisons are inaccurate and are, in fact, smuggling, because pension expenditure in SYRIZA, according to budget executions - because you know, Minister, when it ends a year, we see execution - according to budget executions, pension expenditure in SYRIZA was stable by small reductions in the period of the memorandum and a great increase from 1918 to 19, i.e. after the exit from the memoranda, and today the Minister compares the budget of the new regularity to the budgets of the Memorandum, that is to say, the adjustment. But it does not dare to compare the implementation of 19, that is, in 2019, to pensions, to what he brings today, because if he makes this comparison, it is easy to see the very fewer money to be paid for in pensions. So, if the Minister puts the cubit in the memoirs, it's good to tell the retired people to know it. The first step, therefore, is the reduction of money and the question is why. Why are you reducing the money to be paid to pensions? Why are you reducing this social expenditure? Are we in a memorial period? Are we in a period of budgetary adjustment? Are we in an austerity period? Aren't we in growth? Aren't we in a period of uprooting public finances? Why is social expenditure reduced? The answer to this question is ‘strategic choice’. It is the government's strategic choice to reduce social spending in a period of growth. Because that's at the core of every neoliberal plan. It is respectful for every neoliberal model to reduce social costs even in a period of growth. Step two. From this smaller pie, the government makes a reverse, a reverse redistribution. In fact, it is deducting income from low and middle pensioners, so that it can make selective, as I will explain, increases in pensioners in the highest scales and I am explaining. The permanent thirteenth pension is clearly, definitively, comprehensively and without rotation with this bill. To finish with the parafiscality surrounding this measure, the thirteenth pension was introduced as permanent - I repeat, permanent - metro by SYRIZA in 2019. For those who have suffered from Mr Chrysochide's syndrome and do not remember what they voted for or have not read what they voted for, I would remind him what the New Democracy MPs have voted for. I read the article that was voted for by New Democracy: ‘The main pension beneficiaries shall be granted from 2019 and for each subsequent year of the 15th pension’. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This was also voted by you "The third pension is 100% for up to EUR 500, is 70% for more etc. ', as a permanent measure. I put this to the Minutes too, for those who do not remember what they voted on. [[At this point, MP Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This measure is now being abolished without spins. Eight hundred thousand low pensioners - because they are trying to tell us that there has never been or is a fantasy of all this - were retired and would receive a full pension from now and every year, according to the law. Also, a million seven hundred thousands of pensioners have taken commensurate sums and would take these amounts from now on and all the rest of the years if this provision were not repealed, which is now being abolished. In fact, we have the same government and Minister in his history to abolish the thirteenth pension twice. This time without memos. That abolition, however much the government would like to distort it, make it look different, constitutes a cut, a pension cut and a serious one. Step three. The bill provides for an increase in the replacement rates for those with over thirty years of insurance and under forty years. Then they decrease very much in relation to the current insurance policy of SYRIZA from forty or more. How many is this increase about? The bill is revealing. It says that this increase does not actually concern those who were retired before 2016, the vast majority, i.e. the pensioners. For it says that this supposed increase will only be accountable, as it is absorbed by the personal difference established by the Katorugalou Act, No.4387/16. Thus, in essence, the Government admits with the bill that increases in pensioners before '16 are only accounting and the increase is covered by the maintenance of personal differences, that is to say, a law which it devastated and to which it has been criticizing, and now, essentially, it admits that it did not reduce the main pensions. Who, in the end, is this much-advertised increase? The pensioners after 2016 who have more than thirty years of insurance but less than forty years of insurance. How many are these retired people today? Seventy thousand. Seventy thousand are today these pensioners, one of the two million six hundred thousand of the country's pensioners. It says so and the Court of Auditors in the report accompanying the bill that the expenditure on this increase is EUR 79 million. That's her. We don't underestimate it. But what is the problem here? That the replacement rates are increased by those with over thirty years of insurance? Obviously not. But that to do this, in order to make these small increases for a few pensioners at the highest levels, income is deducted from the low pensioners, as the budget itself confesss, as I myself tabled a moment ago in the Minutes. That is why I am talking about an inappropriate redistribution of income to the detriment of low pensions and a clear, clear political choice of one-sidedness. What is the amount of increase involved in this change? Let's see what we're talking about. We heard in the media about increases of EUR 200, EUR 250, etc. Do you know what wages a man should have to get such an increase of EUR 250 in the future? It must have an average wage - an average salary! -3,500 euros and forty years uninterrupted years of insurance. What man at the time of the crisis, who Greek at the time of the crisis has an average salary of EUR 3,500 and forty years uninterrupted insurance, which you are talking about increases of EUR 200 and 250 and you are, in fact, mocking Greek society at the moment with these positions? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we have a deception, and with regard to what it is about, who is about this measure and what increases it actually is about. Step four, supplementary pensions. Listen, this is where I want to be absolutely honest. When SYRIZA took over, he inherited from the New Democracy and from the Minister, this particular, a very tough commitment to the Troika, an unacceptable commitment: the zero deficit clause. What did this say practically in supplementary pensions? He said that if there is a deficit in the subsidiary fund, supplementary pensions would be cut horizontally, automatically. Was there a deficit in the subsidiary fund when we took over? It's a huge deficit. If the zero deficit clause were applied, we should have had horizontal cuts of 60% in all pensions. What did SYRIZA do? It was hard to renegotiate this condition and it reached an agreement which is clearly weaker and which predicted that this deficit would be covered in three ways. I won't tire you with the techniques anymore. In fact, one of these ways was to reduce supplementary pensions, in fact, by a specific methodology, but which concerned only those who had a sum of pensions, chiefly and subsidiary, over EUR 1,300. In other words, it called for this limit of protection of EUR 1.300, protecting the vast majority of pensioners, about 85% of pensioners. That's it. A compromise was, obviously, all about it in the context of concrete commitments, but clearly milder than what had been done and delivered by the previous government. A few months ago the Council of State decided that this EUR 1.300 limit is unconstitutional, and at the moment the bill comes and provides for specific increases in supplementary pensions for those who were retired before 1916 and who have a pension of more than EUR 1.300. That's it. These people are a closed share of pensioners, two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners, and they are retired of the highest categories of over EUR 1.300. That's what we're talking about. Other pensioners, as I have already explained, will not see any increases but reductions in their annual pension. What is the overall picture? Nine out of ten pensioners will have a reduction in income, one out of ten pensioners will have an increase. That's why we're talking about insurance for extreme monotony. Step fifth. Does he have the bill cuts? I hear it and I hear it again and I hear it again from the government saying that the bill has no cuts. The bill has three cuts. First, the reduction of the thirteenth pension. Secondly, the reduction for the first time by 30% of pensioners' pensions before 2016. I want to stay here for a moment. It's an extremely punishing provision. We have asked Mr Brutsi to retire. We think that it is good and I want to be clear - because Mr Brutsi does not understand - that he reduces the penalty for retired workers and takes it from 60% to 30%. But to those who were retired before 2016 n. 4387/16, the Katrugalu law never touched them. These people for the first time will see a 30% reduction in their pensions with this bill and this is a very hard cut. We also insist, Mr Brutsi, that it cannot be the case for post-mortem employees. We insist on the posters you wanted at the beginning to exclude them entirely from the reduction and after the outcry you have included them in the general rule, that cannot be the case for poster workers. There can be no post-mortem civil servants getting a payroll and a pension. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is a regulation of allegiance, and it is a regulation of favorability for a party, and it must be withdrawn. I'm on it. We also have a third cut, which concerns those who have over 40 years of insurance. There the bill provides that the replacement rates are falling too much. They decrease from 2% to 0.5%. It is a net pension mechanism. This is the reality of pensions. These are the five steps of the bill that ultimately reduce income for the vast majority of pensioners. For those who are not yet convinced, I would like to submit another document which is extremely serious. It's the table included in the analog study of the bill Mr. Brutsi has submitted. It is in the proportional study submitted by the Government itself. What does that painting say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. What does that painting say? This table says that the average annual pension with the new insurance is reduced from now and every year thereafter until 2040. The government admits it with the evidence it gives. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. It is page 43 of the proportionate study. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If that's not a confession of reductions, I don't know what it is. It's a cut-off confession. This is the reality of the evidence provided by the government's proportional study. It's not evidence SYRIZA gives. I now come to the issue of contributions. There is a structural change in the issue of contributions in relation to SYRIZA's insurance policy. Here, we have a change, which is extreme social monopolies and injustice. I'll say that in just steps. Step one: Contributions are disconnected from real income. What one pays, nothing will have to do with what one earns. This is a first and great injustice that is inconsistent with the redistributive and social nature of the social security system resulting from the Constitution itself. Step two: Government defines an unjust class system. What's he saying? He's talking about a minimum compulsory contribution that everyone will pay for. From there, there are classes that if anyone wants to pay more. He pays whoever wants and as much as he wants. What does that mean? A man who makes 5,000 euros, 6 000 euros, 7 000 euros, will pay the same as one who makes 70,000 euros, 100,000 euros, 200,000 euros a year and even more. These are if it's not a choice of extreme monologue and social injustice, I don't know what else it's called. It is obvious that the poorest have multiple burdens from having over-perceived incomes. Step three: How much is the minimum levy on new insurance that everyone has to pay? It's 220 euros a month. What was the minimum contribution with Law No.4387/2016, the Katrugalou Law? It was 185 euros a month. So, what's that about? With the insurance of the New Democracy, the minimum contribution is increased by 20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u60	For a bigger pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u61	I'll come to that, Mr. Economou. I've got everything inside for everyone. For low-income and middle-income professionals, then, we have a great burden of 20%. How many people are paying the minimum contribution? It's nine out of ten. So the nine out of ten free professionals with the new insurance will have a charge on their contributions of 20% to make a big discount on one of the ten. Nine out of ten are being charged to make a big gift to one out of ten. So you say - and here I come - that this system...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u62	That's what you're closing up with, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u63	Mr. President, will you give me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u64	But I've already given you three minutes. Look at the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I think that 20 minutes for a rapporteur to speak about the insurance bill is not much. Twenty minutes, I'll talk and I'll shut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u66	It'll take time from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u67	To cut time off my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you very much. So it says that the new system gives for the first time flexibility. I mean, Mr. Economou says to pay if the man can get more retired. But this feature already existed since 2017. It was Mr. 4488. SYRIZA institutionalizes the possibility of paying, if you want, as much as you can, to get a higher pension. But not everyone pays the same. It is not the same one who makes 5 000 euros with one who makes 100,000 euros for the public social security system. So don't say that about flexibility. Flexibility already existed. What is being done here is a provocatively favourable regime for maximum incomes. Step four: This insurance, as it has for the contribution system, actually creates attractive conditions for a prosperous professional investing his money in private insurance and essentially depriving him of resources from the public social security system. Because he says to him "give me a little bit of the state and then he went on to give them to a private insurance company". After all, there have been few times when your executives have been advertising the performances of private insurance companies on television for the last year and a half. That's the picture. This is the reality of the new insurance policy. Nine out of ten retired people lose income and one wins. Nine out of ten insured persons are charged to make a great gift to one. The rest of the bill is just for the impressions. Repeat favorable arrangements established by ministerial decisions on SYRIZA, and are now being relegated to produce a project. Repeat steps to digitise the insurance policy, projects of the NSRF, which were compatible with SYRIZA, and now fill out pages of the bill, obviously, to show that there is something. Anyone who is legal in the Chamber understands that this is not a legislature now. Most of all, they relegate things that have been abolished by themselves and after the outcry reintroduce them. This is a very characteristic case of reduced contributions for mothers after the first year, after the birth, where the gentlemen of the New Republic abolished this provision by a ministerial decision. There was an outcry. There was an indication of the issue. Now, they're bringing her back. This is the image of the insurance bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in fact none of the information I mentioned was questioned by the government during the debate in the committee. There has been a position that matters to me and that is what I am going to close, Mr President, and let me take time off my dentistry. There was the placement that this might happen, but this insurance is looking towards the future. That's what the Minister said. This insurance looks towards the future and sees for future pensioners and current workers. Is that true? I would just remind you of this: in your previous term of office you have expelled unemployment to 28%, youth unemployment to 60%. You've reduced the minimum wage. You have created a subordinate wage. You've developed the elastic work. What worker in that period will have thirty-five years of insurance and continuous life insurance and high wages to benefit from such a technical arrangement? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In your current term, repeat the same recipe. You dismantle the labour market. You're hitting sectoral collective agreements again. You're keeping your wages compressed. You are guided by generalisation, that is, the absolute form of flexible work. I wonder: Who has today's employee with these policies will in future have thirty-five years of insurance and a high wage to increase his pension? The substance is, therefore, that no technical regulation in individual parts of the replacement rates cannot balance out an insurance system when there is no work plan. However, when this is done by cutting money from the low-pensioners. There can be no such type of regulation in the replacement rates and only improve the lives of today's and tomorrow's pensioners. These can only be done by means of labour-enhancing measures today, with the reintroduction of collective agreements, the increase in wages...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u68	Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u69	...oppression of the extremist form of market flexibility. That is what we need for today's workers: an integrated plan for the recovery of work, a reorientation of the productive model with workers at the centre. And that, Mr Brutsis, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is our crucial, structural, institutional and unprecedented difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u70	A hundred and fifty colleagues have been registered. With a rough calculation, which was done, I think tonight we can stop around 11:00 and not midnight and tomorrow morning we'll make a new assessment of the situation and determine what time will end...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u71	Until what number are we going today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u72	We cannot know a number, because the parliamentary representatives or the Minister may speak today. So I can't tell you the number. It's just, I think it's a reasonable time to finish tonight around 11:00. Tomorrow morning before we begin, we'll co-decide what time we'll be done tomorrow night and Thursday morning when the ending will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I would like to say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Economou, don't worry. I've written them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, it is not my intention that respect for time should not be regarded as impossibility. I respected the fifteenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Economou, did anyone tell you it was weakness? Don't fly before I'm done. Because I went to say that the tolerance I have not shown you today, because you did not need it, you will have it in your dentistry. So don't fly. I'm older than you and I know what I'm doing and what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u77	I respect you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u78	We continue with the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I'm going to need a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u80	We've been through this. Another is the relative tolerance of two, three minutes and another the seven minutes of Mrs Ahtsoglou to be cut. Not the seven minutes, but beyond the tolerance, it'll be four minutes. I've already written it on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. The anointed people say and everywhere it is said that 'they are depriving them of the first', but I remember that one year ago the current Prime Minister said that the Katorugalou law would be abolished and replaced by another insurance system. How different, though, is the harsh reality when anyone goes through the opposition and becomes government? Mr President, at the beginning of the memorial era one would expect this piece of legislation to correct injustices and lay the first foundations for returning part of the 45% of pensions lost during the time of the crisis. In practice, however, the report of the Court of Auditors also confirms the New Democracy bill adopts the rules of the Katrugalo Law and comes - characteristic expression - substantial amendments satisfying the requirements of the Council of State's plenary session by the decisions of October 2019. So, what's he doing? It makes some changes and changes due to the decisions of the Council of State, but expressly endorses the huge reductions made by the law of Katrugalos SYRIZA - ANEL. It does not, however, constitute the structural reform that would change the structure of insurance and which is absolutely necessary for the country. It does not make reforms, such as the reforms planned by PASOK, which, by the way, I would remind you, were not supported either by New Democracy or by SYRIZA. I mention, for example, the creation of the EEAS and the separation of the pension and health sector, the ECHR, which has covered the needs of four hundred and fifty thousand low pensioners, ensuring a decent standard of living. In order to get to know and know what everyone has done, SYRIZA abolished it by the Katorugalos Act, and New Democracy in the bill we are discussing does not see to it that the minimum guaranteed income for pensioners is founded and established. The Change Movement submits a proposal for a law to safeguard the minimum guaranteed income, while always respecting the country's economic potential and specificities. Secondly, the Solidarity Fund, the ATAGE, nowhere in your bill, Minister, there is no such provision for finding funds to strengthen the insurance system. The CSDPs with which the single health crisis has been ensured in determining the level of invalidity of all insured persons. I would also remind you that it was our reform and the establishment of the National Analogue Authority. These were reforms, they gave a stigma and they remained. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Labour, like his predecessor, assures us of the viability of the insurance bill today for some fifty years. However, it must be accepted that no proportionate study can, with a horizon of fifty years, provide for, for example, the rate of growth. And I think we agree that it cannot predict the weaknesses of the global economy, which also plays a role in the face of a natural disaster or a pandemic. Some impacts have a corresponding effect. Can anyone tell us in 2040 what the structure of employment will be, especially in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, which we are going through and which has a huge overthrow in the labour data and working habits of these overthrows? We cannot accurately predict these reversals, so proportionate studies are indeed necessary, but beyond a horizon we must be very cautious in relation to the accuracy of their conclusions and certainly need to be updated. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the solutions which the bill under discussion is less than the problems it creates. While the Ministry's leadership is supposed to be moving towards a revolutionary social security reform, the unification of the EBRD for the EBRD for the creation of the e-ECA which takes place after a few days, on March 1st, at the same time, predict that the implementing arrangements are laid down by a decision of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. These decisions, as you all know, are particularly difficult and operational both to be drafted and to be executed. It is therefore certain that their delay in extradition will prove to be a sloppy one, but also a lack of readiness in relation to this project. One could say: 'What are you talking about?' I will ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what is the fate of the public electronic RES. Where is this SGP located? Because there is a government for eight months and the electronic SGC for the Greek State is not applicable. Indeed, given this, when can we assume that the e-VCAs will be implemented and implemented? We asked this issue yesterday in committee and the other day. We haven't got a reply so far. I would point out, however, that the outstanding pensions are constantly increasing by four thousand a month. One hundred and three thousand, ladies and gentlemen, were the outstanding main pensions at 31-12-2018. One hundred and fifty-one thousand outstanding pensions at 31-12-2019, and on 31-1-2020, in one month, fifty-eight thousand are the outstanding pensions. So what tools and what mechanism will these burning issues be solved for Greek applicants for pension? What plans? Paper? I think not! Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, there are eleven untreated injustices with this bill. First, the huge increases in retirement age limits are maintained in sixty-seven for all or sixty-two to forty-years of service passed on to SYRIZA with L.4336/2015. Nowhere in the bill is there at least any provision to abolish the provision which depends on the age limit for life expectancy and threatens new increases in age limits. Secondly, the huge reductions in the main and supplementary pensions that have reached 50% are maintained, as well as in the one-off one that totalled, ladies and gentlemen, cuts have exceeded 40% and are even worse in the bill the slaughter of disabled pensions that were under the previous law up to 40%. And you're asking yourself, Minister, why don't you abolish these unacceptable national pension notes to pensioners for disability, which make disability pensions, unfortunately, allowances? I would remind you that the PASOK government, with the Law of Loverdou - Koutrumani, provided for these people with a pension threshold of EUR 486 and an EAS. The previous government abolished them and with you, the Change Movement, we denounced them. But what has changed since we denounced them? First, through e-FOD the integration of the EIF is injustice. In EKKA, the Government intends in this way, without expressing itself boldly by further deterioration of the public system, to be the interim step towards strengthening capital elements at the expense of distribution and strengthening individualisation at the expense of solidarity. Proof of this is the creation of only six insurance categories for self-employed persons, the maximum of which creates a monthly pension wage of EUR 2,500, while employees pay contributions for remuneration of up to EUR 6,500 a month. It is thus closing the eyes - and it is for granted - this bill on high incomes in order to turn to private insurance companies, while depriving the public insurance system of revenue. Fourth injustice. There is no regulation in the draft law on acquisition titles. The provisions in force on acquisitions securities stipulate that the contribution of Article 39 of Law No.4387/2016, which changes with this draft law, is paid. So a reasonable question arises. Will the new fixed amounts be paid by the purchasers? So, will a person receive EUR 10,000 and pay EUR 220 a contribution, and a tenant of EUR 1,000 per month will pay a higher contribution? They are questions, Minister. And I'm asking, is this a conscious choice, or is it something that's completely escaped from the staff? Fifth injustice. The very low rates of the Katrugalos law are maintained, for those who have up to thirty years of service, and it is certainly the large majority of private sector pensioners. In fact, the rates of replacement of the pension are incomplete, not a serious incentive for insurance. It turns out in practice that the rates of reimbursement under Law 3863/2010, which you so much fought, were in the interests of the citizens. The level of pensions for the coming years will be 15% lower than today, i.e., compared with 18% under the Katrugalos Act. For young pensioners it appears that 60% of the main pension will be the national pension and only 40% will be the payroll. The rates of replacement of special categories of military, air force pilots, etc. are increased. - beyond what is laid down in the Brutsi Act by an additional 1.5% for each year over forty-five. Question: Why is this increase not done for other workers? Why do we create such inequality? Does this open a way to new legal proceedings? And, of course, Mr Minister, you are punishing the professionals for whom it is common to remain in their work and after the 40 years of insurance have been completed. The new Republic denounces the abolition of the NSA by the SYRIZA - ANEL, but maintains the abolition from the SYRIZA - ANEL of the pension thresholds. Sixteen very large, untreated injustice: the employment of young children is being undermined, which is supposed to be so interested in the government to bring them back, inverting Brain Drain. It therefore ensures that pensioners over sixty-two years of age are employed in the public sector, so that children of a special nature - blue, I will say it directly - of a high age, but of an age, to boost their income. Brain drain cannot be reversed thus. This way is a major inhibitor. Seventh untreated injustice: The new structure of contributions creates unequal treatment of employees and self-employed persons and therefore create new inequalities and distortions within the insurance system against employees. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have said now will, of course, create a body of appeals in justice. Question: Is it something that concerns the government? The system of parallel insurance - as you suggest it - also drives the insured person to turn the employed person into a self-employed person, into a block, this well-known block, so he and the employer can escape. Minister, your bill says that a full-time employee who, at the same time as a selfemployed person, has a gross salary of EUR 934, covers EUR 252 - contributions, that is, a second insurance cover and the categories of self-employed - and thus fully fulfils his insurance obligations. Question: If his salary is less than EUR 934, then he makes a difference until EUR 252 is reached? A prediction? None! How do you mean, Minister, EUR 934? It's a question. By taking into account an allowance for a Christmas gift and Easter gift or without it? Obviously without them, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the order would have written it. The layout says nothing at all! So, you're pulling out what now? Something that happened? The corollary of gifts? I don't want to believe it. I want to believe that this is a failure in the wording. But on this subject we want a clear, concrete answer from the Minister. Eighteenth, also unhealthy injustice: the so-called thirteenth pension awarded on SYRIZA is abolished, while the rulers deaf in the proposal for a law recently tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement for payment to all pensioners in full thirteenth pensions. Ninth unhealthy injustice: You do not abolish the Healthcare Contribution of 6% on the supplementary pensions imposed by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL Government, nor the increase from 4% to 6% on the main pensions, which is additional evidence that the spirit and soul of the Katrugalos Law live and remain strong. Tenth unhealthy injustice: You do not, Minister, provide pensioners who started their employment before this bill, the possibility of choosing their employment status, either the old, or what you propose by your law. So you ask: after reducing the unemployment penalty for old-age pensions from 60% to 30%, why don't you also reduce the payroll in the case of retirement after three years because of death to half, that is from 50% to 25%? Another question: Children who are entitled to a pension due to parental death from 13-5-2016, since they work there are no brakes in their pensions. That's for granted. On the contrary, however, children who are entitled to a pension because of death that took place before 13-5-2016, if they work even one day for retirement. Evidently this leads to black work. Why would your bill not fix this? Isn't that an injustice? On this issue, the proposal from the Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, is clear and explicit: To harmonize both these schemes so that one child - the beneficiary of this pension - I mentioned because of death - is working to ensure that pensions are not interrupted at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance very little. Eleventh great injustice and unhealthyness: The biggest problem of the bill under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is no plan to raise new resources for the insurance system from the use of public property. Even the marginal increase that will see about two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners in a total of two million six hundred and fifty thousand pensioners does not come from the addition of new resources to the berth of the system, but from the internal reallocation of the costs paid by the insured and their employers. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main objectives of a social state is the efficient, socially fair distribution of economic and social resources among citizens. That is why the Change Movement - as we have already said - submits a number of provisions, which, in our view, are essential components in creating a fairer and more effective social security system. In particular, we are proposing to re-evaluate normal thirteenth pension and introduce a new Social Solidarity Fund for Retired Persons - ESS -, to remove the injustices for pensioners and widows, to abolish the automatic mechanism to increase the retirement age limits based on life expectancy. We also propose the abolition of the Healthcare Contribution on Subsistence Pensions, the arrangement for pensioners and pensioners IKA as fathers of minors, the right to full and reduced pension for old and insured women of the former IKA - EBRD, the extension of heavy and unhealthy occupations to the public, pensions for old age without age after the forty years of compulsory, actual employment, and the recognition of periods of insurance and unemployment vacancy as a fictitious period for the acquisition of a pension regardless of the final pension institution. Finally, we propose that parents, spouses and disabled brothers be retired and placed in the EIF. All of this is found in our thirteen specific proposals. We therefore propose that the thirteenth pension should be complete. With this provision, the Change Movement recognizes at a symbolic level the sacrifices that the pensioners of our country have been subjected to in recent years and seeks the partial restoration of their purchasing capacity and standard of living. Finally, this legislative proposal is a serious signal to the whole of Greece, that the gradual restoration of normality and even a slight increase in the country's wealth is being channelled towards the removal of injustices and strengthening the social state, which we so need, by strengthening social cohesion and social justice. A minimum guaranteed pensioner's income is being introduced - that is, the new CSCE - and the great injustice suffered by the low-pensioners who have been particularly affected since the abolition of the CSCE is restored. We are proposing, as we have said, the lifting of the injustice for pensioners in disability and widowhood, the abolition of the automatic adjustment mechanism for the retirement age on the basis of life expectancy, with a reference to the age of sixty-five years. We are proposing that supplementary pension contributions should be abolished. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. We are proposing a provision addressing the particular case of debtors who are in complete inability to repay debts and hence in a deadlock, as they are called upon to repay pension benefits paid by EVA and the EVA and who have been entitled to an old-age pension following decisions by local administrative committees as fathers of minors. But then the administrative courts withdrew these judgments. It is a big issue, a great injustice, a great problem that is stirring them up. We propose the right to a full and reduced pension for old-age women formerly insured IKA - EBRD before 1-1-1993, which on 31-12-2010 had completed five thousand five hundred days of insurance, but at the same time had minor children and joined the programs until 31-12-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u82	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are proposing to extend the heavy and unhealthy professions to the public and to all the insured in the ECA. It does not mean that insured persons have the same job and are treated differently. It's the logic of insanity! Same job, different insurance. Hey, you can't do that! The Greek Parliament must deal with this at some point. We are proposing that the provision should be retired with forty years of compulsory real-life insurance, with no age limit. I repeat, forty years of work, real insurance, but no age limit. Finally, we propose the recognition of gaps in unemployment insurance periods as fictitious years for workers in the public sector and the treatment, Mr President, of injustice against parents, spouses and disabled brothers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u84	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u85	In other words, if the disabled child or wife or sister undertakes work or self-employed, the pension should not be suspended. Thank you very much, Mr President. To conclude, I should like to say this: we are proposing that the pensioners of NAT should be exempted from the pensioners of NAT as teachers - it is a matter of this - at the Chamber of Commerce Navy from the cuts that they have in the case of employment as retired persons. Finally, we are proposing this, which we have committed ourselves and have said to all the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u86	Well, don't thank me again for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u87	The proposal's over. I have finished, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. It is proposed that full national pension should be granted to the ex-Services from Albania and the countries of the former Soviet Union. And that is what we call on the government to take a stand. They are proposals for specific, fully justified proposals. The institutions have told them in committee and they must be answered. Mr President, thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u88	In the Minutes, Mr Mulkiotis spoke twenty minutes and thirty seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory is forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Lamia High School (second section). Lamia has her honor today. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. It is a signicant day of February 25, because at the same time the government is preparing to vote for another new anti-safety law and to impose a new legislative initiative that will bring about a ban on protests, thus escalating its anti-galactic and anti-grass attack on all fronts, the GSE's leading team is attempting to organise a conference - paradox with perforated express procedures, with dozens of native representatives, but also representatives of employers in a police-occupation climate, with the empowerment of MATs and the port, to safeguard the lawful representatives and the unrealistic leadership of the GSP. A police-owned conference. A conference closed to the workers and their representatives. Closed to the journalists, but open to the government, to the employer, so that they can intervene in the trade unions. The fact that the conference is being held with the noble sponsorship of the repression forces in the Panagopoulos leader group, Karagopoulou, Koutsouki and Vassilopoulos is also the reward of this leading team by the government for the stand, which they held against Mr Brutsi's insurance bill, which they applauded and held an open strike. Thus, the MAGP is trying to impose virtue on it, but also on BSE, a leading group in the GSP. With the MGs, the government is trying to implement the unacceptable closed-ended areas for the concentration of refugees and immigrants on the islands, turning them into prisons, implementing the European Union's anti-immigration policy. Once again, that is to say, authoritarianism is the other side of anti-popular policy. Today's bill, as the Minister of Labour described it as speaking in plenary this morning, is exactly this anti-popular policy. So, with today's bill, the New Democracy Government takes the dent to demolition of the social character of public security by the SYRIZA government. With this particular Brutsi bill, we have the legalisation of the reactionary and unacceptable Katrugalos law in insurance. We can now talk about a Katorugalo-Brutsi insurance system. A law that has been welcomed by the workers, the self-employed, the professional farmers with massive strikes, with lasting concentration. With today's provisions it makes a few small memes, some plasters in the Katorugalos law, but retaining its reactive content in full. A content, which puts a tombstone, puts the seal on the demolition of the social character of public insurance, at its core the adoption of the well-known triad system, i.e. the Pinochet system. This is the core of the Katrugalu law. Secondly, Mr Brutsi's bill legalises the mass veil made at the expense of retired people over the years. The losses for each pensioner are estimated at 40% to 50% from the years of the crisis. So we have the abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, i.e. a loss for each pensioner of about 15%. We are abolishing the lower pension by law of the SYRIZA Government, so that we do not forget, which from EUR 712 -492 the lower pension plus EUR 220 - over one night went to EUR 403. Reduce 45%. In other words, the losses for each pensioner who received the lowest pension are EUR 319. And you dare talk about protecting the pensioner? Abolition of the family allowance of 10% of the pensions. Increase in the contribution of SYRIZA to health from 4% to 6% in main pensions and 6% in supplementary pensions for health expenditure. The slaughter of disabled pensions, the abolition of the CSCE. The pension freeze by 2023, and it goes on to say. Above all, however, and above all it is the new way of calculating pensions. Over the last five years, the rate of replacement over the whole working life has been transferred, resulting in this rate of over 80% - and over 80%, which was in some cases - falling below 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u90	Mr. President, isn't there a government in the Chamber? Has he gone to Kavouri?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u91	It's okay. He's gone to protect the leadership of the GSC.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Paphie, neither in Cavouri is anywhere else. It's where emperors sometimes go alone for two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u93	Oh, it's like Panagopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u94	So, what should be done? There's no one else from the Ministry. Mr. Mitarakis became Minister. There's no one but the Ministry. I have no problem, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, interrupt until the Minister comes back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u95	It doesn't make any sense to their ears. You don't have to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u96	Okay. As you think. Well, I can interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u97	No, I can move on. But about one minute that was eaten now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u98	There's no question for a minute. More than your time will be, as it was for everyone except Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u99	So I can go on, Mr President, thank you very much, although the Minister of Labour is absent. So what does all this mean? What is the result of all this? That total losses for pensioners over the years exceed EUR 100 billion. And one will ask: These 100 billion euros lost by pensioners, where did they go? The answers are very simple: they went to serve the state debt, for which the pensioners and the people are not responsible. It is responsible for the enormous frugality, which business groups are doing with state funding and subsidies. It is because of the recapitalisation of the banks, by which the insurance funds lost tens of millions of euros. It is also due to the time-consuming policies of both the previous and the current government, to strengthen business groups. Thirdly, the Brutsi bill legalises the huge scale of the coup d'état, which took place in the fund reserves. And now you're supposed to be talking about the sustainability of the funds? Rehabilitate the loot made in the reserves, a balmish timeless. Bank of Greece: In the first phase of the insurance system, when both the ratio of employees and pensioners was very beneficial. The reserves of the insurance funds were deposited with the Bank of Greece at a zero rate, when inflation was running at 15% and 20%, annual inflation. And what did the Bank of Greece do with these reserves? It provided loans to strengthen business groups. Remember, there are a number of big companies, champions of that time of the 1970s, how much they owe the banks, who can no longer pay them, how much they owe the insurance funds, how much these business groups owe the tax. Secondly, through the huge crack and the massive loss of stocks placed on shares, they are gambled on the Athens Stock Exchange with the Crescent Government. Third, through the state bond haircut for the well-known PSI. This is all tens of billions lost from the insurance funds. But, too, there are other cases that are forgotten. Where did the reserves of PPC's subsidiary fund go? PPC was given pessimism to privatize and become a public limited company. These were also lost for workers, in the name of capitalist growth, in the support of competitiveness and profitability of business groups. So all the reserves that have been stolen, we say that they must be returned and all of them must be returned by the state, paid by the state, paid by companies, paid by banks for all that has been lost over these decades by the insurance funds. So, despite government propaganda, despite the efforts of the employers' minister to make black white, reality is not hidden. Today's bill is even more shielded by the continuing squabbling of pensions and the increase in the pension thresholds. After all, it is no accident that this year's State Budget for 2020 provides for a reduction in the cost of pensions by EUR 200 million from EUR 29,142,000, which was the cost of pensions, both main and ancillary, 2019, in 2020, it is planned to allocate EUR 28,950,000. But the analogous principle, with the analog study he has taken, is very revealing. What's he saying? That 2020 amounts to 14.6% of GDP, and this should be reduced by 2070 to 11.9%, i.e. a continuous reduction in pensions. Thus the system becomes sustainable, based on a proportionate study, while the permanent pension axe continues to exist, with continuous reductions. It also provides for a proportionate increase in the retirement thresholds, which can be reached on the basis of the life expectancy limit up to and including seventy years, until 2066. I mean, they'll work to the deep ages. And, of course, there is a constant reduction in state funding from 5.3%, which is currently, this year, at 3.1% in 2070. At the same time, the bill provides for a 20% increase in insurance contributions for 80% of the self-employed, professionals and farmers, who were currently on the lowest scale of insurance. Because this lower scale is increasing and goes to EUR 220, i.e. an increase of 19% in fact. But at the same time in the bill there are new 'gifts' to capital, such as the reduction of insurance contributions, adopting the BSE requirement to reduce so-called non-wage costs, and of course the list also goes on. But what is the main cause of overturning insurance over the system, especially in the 1990s? Is it the annoyance of the various ministers and governments? And that may be, but another is the reason. It is economical, and they of course have nothing to do with the sustainability of the insurance system or the demographic problem. These are the consequences. Where's the cause? It is precisely because of the huge overturns on the labour market that have taken place, it is in the demand of industrialists, bankers, shipowners and major merchants for very cheap workers, for workers without collective rights to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. Is it also accidental that the sustainability of the insurance funds is linked to the time-lag that took place in the reserves? It is accidental that sustainability is linked to overturning on the labour market, where flexibility prevails, that part-time work, that wage cuts, lower wages, average wages, that of unemployment which calls, legal and irregular, but also that of abolishing collective labour contracts? And all this, all these changes in the labour market have been done to shield the competitiveness of business groups, because they want a cheap worker without rights. Really how can a young man with 300-350 euros create a family? This is the impact on the demographic problem, the living conditions of the vast majority of the new generation. So, basically, what do you remind of all that you all claim, and the New Democracy, and the Change Movement, and SYRIZA? You're asking for the court's custody as did the man who killed his father, because he's an orphan. You looted the life of the working class and today you ask for courtesy on how we can deal with matters. But one life will be paid by the workers and the people, and the unavoidable and new benefits will remain the capital and the business groups. So the reversals in the insurance system go hand in hand - by hand with the overturning of the labour market and the continuation will be bleak, because it is the armouring of the competitiveness and profitability of business groups that breaks labour rights, it is the one that breaks the lives of the working class, the self-employed, the hundreds of thousands of poor and medium-sized farmers. Here, then, are those very needs of business groups that increasingly require government funding to the insurance funds and more and more funding to business groups and state debt. This competitiveness requires the full discharge of employers from employers' contributions, in the name of a reduction in non-wage costs. This is essentially the basis of the trixon system, a public pillar in which it will provide pro-active pensions, that is, poverty pensions. The painting is revealing about the works and the days of the Katrugalo and Brutsi Act, after thirty years of work and nine thousand brands, and if it has all this, and for thirty years, an average salary of 1,000 euros, what is the pension at EUR 1,000? It is EUR 264, which along with the national pension will reach EUR 647. So here is what your result is, EUR 264 is for thirty years of work and EUR 1 000 for an average wage and for those thirty years of work. And then you say you're going to restore the enormous injustices to the insured and the retired? This life awaits them. So, in the face of this public pillar, which provides poverty pensions, hunger pensions, the other two pillars are turned into attractive ones, the professional funds and private insurance, based on the capitalisation system, which are sectors of the private economy and private insurance. The results are well known. ENRON with its professional fund, which lost a few hundred thousand employees all of their pensions. And if you say that these are "old, sour grapes", here is a Saturday post of the newspaper "Kathimerini" for "THYSSENKRUPP". How much does he owe? He owes a few billion euros to the workers' occupational pension fund. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But also in private insurance, with the bankruptcy of dozens of large insurance companies, at all lengths and backs of Earth. Already here, the "SPAS" insurers are claiming tens of years to take back all that they had given, but nowhere. From this point of view, all these overthrows are made precisely because there must be an incentive for private insurance companies to trade in people's needs even more. And it is no coincidence that the former Minister of Finance was also inclined to adopt all the European directives that facilitated the work of private insurance companies, but also the current Minister of Employment, Mr Brutsis, in a recent statement he had said that the next legislative initiative of the Government should be the incentives given to private insurance companies to proceed with the group contracts. So, all of this is the logic of recompense, this reactionary character, is the barbaric, capitalist system that, despite its enormous potential with science, technology, with productivity of labour, forces workers, pensioners, broad popular strata, to live with less and less each year in order to accumulate socially produced wealth in less and less and less hands. And, of course, the answer cannot but be the world, the working class, the self-employed, the poor and medium-sized farms, the young people of the people and women to demand the satisfaction of modern and enlarged needs, to collide with this system that gives birth to poverty, impoverishment with the barbarity of the capitalist system, to pave the way for socialism and fulfilment of their needs. So, then, in response to the reinsurance bill, a new, yet another answer to the Broutsis Reinsurance Bill must be given on February 27th, Thursday, at the concentrations that are taking place throughout Greece and Athens, in order to claim from all the workers and pensioners the restoration of the losses of pensioners over all these years, the restoration of the thirteenth and fifteenth pensions for all, the increases in pensions that have to go hand in hand with the increase in the minimum wage, the reduction in the retirement thresholds for sixty years for men and fifty-five for women. It is realistic, because labour productivity has been multiplied by new technology. And, of course, to return all the reserves to finally pay the state and the employer for the problems faced by the working class and the rest of the people. Only in this way can the people’s family be relieved, only in this way can it gain power in its power to overthrow it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u100	The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the bitter truth that, for the payment of pensions, our governments, mainly because of their mismanagement and inability, have handed Greece over to the fingernails of the troika, bankrupt, mortgaged, sold and sentenced to exile over five hundred thousand of our children. While they are currently funding them, among other things, by increasing contributions from the compulsory basic category to EUR 220, from EUR 185 today. This category is considered to be 83% of the self-employed who account for 35% of the employees in Greece, so about a million two hundred thousand workers from whom the ECA will receive over 40 million euros. In fact, on the one hand, more money is being given on the one hand by the bill to some categories, while on the other, more is being deducted from others, as evidenced by the government's assurance that it will not have budgetary costs, with the exception of the retrospectives which will, however, be charged to the budget and, therefore, to all the Greeks. Continuing, I would like to stress that the only way to get Greece out of the crisis that deepens every day and to increase, not to the detriment of groups that are not interested in the parties - pensioners because of their number are the parties - is growth. In this regard, all the countries that had been immersed in such a massive recession in the past, losing around 25% of their GDP like Greece, plus 10% of the other countries of the European Union on average, when they came back, had growth rates of over 4% to 5% for many years. It is therefore easily concluded that Greece has not returned what is said. Unfortunately, Greece did not succeed because of its huge public debt, which despite its deletion continues to be at 180% of its GDP compared to less than 130% in 2010. In absolute sizes of EUR 356 billion, as announced recently, documenting that its upward trend continues, compared with about EUR 300 billion ten years ago. Even worse it's in the vastly larger part of the country, so our country is entirely dependent on its foreign lenders and it's prey to their available, financial, geopolitical and immigration. That is why we see that all governments since 2009 and then apply exactly the same thing, because they do not govern. Also, because of their scary red private debt, which is unique in world history. The EUR 330 billion together with the charges or over 170 % of GDP compared to a 10% rate in 2010, while it continues to increase, for example in relation to the public sector, and we mean its dues. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our twin problem, together with the austerity policy and the memorials that are being implemented, does not allow us to develop as it should be, which is evidenced by gross, fixed investments that continue to be in 50% of the last ten years, as it has been seen since the last quarter of 2019, which have remained hypotonic, hoping to increase in the first quarter of 2020, although we do not see it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Of course, without demand, there is no increase in investment, which should not include the sale of existing businesses, while we are already faced with a number of developments that are not positive either for tourism or for our exports. The main of these are Brexit, the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK', the low growth of Europe by only 0.1% in the fourth quarter of 2019, the possible global recession due to the Chinese virus and the late debts of EUR 290 billion for 2020 alone and Turkish aggression. None of this has been calculated by the government. It is something that we consider to be totally irresponsible, especially in terms of analogy. Greece does not, however, have these problems alone, since one more is demographic, which in turn prevents growth, among other things, from exacerbating the index of dependence which is negative in Greece, noting that the dependency index is measured by the possibility of developing a country with a population criterion as well as the number of workers. In Greece, the dependency index is problematic, in the sense that it does not guarantee sustainable growth in the economy or the maintenance of non-workers. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] It is clear, therefore, that Greece, even with the index of the proportional study, which uses a completely different method from that of Germany and I will present it in the Minutes, cannot have sustainable growth, that is, even in the long term, even if we assume that investment would be made. The latter is something that will not happen unless the problem of public and red private debt is resolved in order to restore the creditworthiness of both sectors, as well as as as long as banks are within the limits of bankruptcy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continuing, Greece's fourth major problem is pension, noting that in relation to the highest proportion of citizens over sixty years first Japan comes with 30%, followed by Italy with 27%, Germany with 26% and Finland, Greece, Bulgaria and Portugal with 25%. The big problem here concerns pensions to which health care costs must be added, and it stands at those countries that combine high levels of ageing with a high rate of unemployment. This means that in Greece the situation is dramatic since it has long been the largest unemployment in all the above countries. Greece has the worst proportion of retired workers in this regard, since every pensioner accounts for only 1,85 workers - people aged, to be more precise - according to the proportionate study for 2018 which, however, uses the whole workforce and not just the workers. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It seems that it is not easy to fund 1,85 persons at work a pensioner. At some point we have to understand it and find real solutions to our problems. In closing our overall description, the purpose we mentioned above is to realize exactly what is happening in our homeland, without focusing on unnecessary accounting findings, so that we are realistic and not aerated by demanding things that are not, especially as regards insurance, under the current conditions, that is, with such a high and red private debt, with the demographic problem in the gyneith, with such a ratio of workers and with such a ratio of workers to pensioners, how much more than within the policy of memoranda that has cost more than a trillion euros in Greece. In simple terms, it is utopian that Greeks expect serious changes in insurance and increases as long as the memorials last, that is, at least until 2060. In the bill now where the government is henceforth aiming to digitize the EBRD in the e-ECA, as it describes it. This is mentioned in the first, second and fourth part of the bill, which is presented as a shocking reform, and in fact this is a very simple process since the integration of the insurance funds well or badly has already been done, and secondly, the replacement of some losses by pensioners during the last reform, which, however, are only a small part of their huge losses in the years of the memorandum, while, unfortunately, it will be at the expense of other social groups with less political influence, since the sum which is distributed almost the same, 200 million less to be precise. The specific arrangements are referred to in Part Three, Articles 19 to 49, covering matters relating to civil servants, military, farmers and individuals, professionals or employees. We believe it is the part of the bill that has the greatest interest in the extent to which it affects our country's economic policy and fiscal image, above all, the citizens. However, these corrections seem to relate only to reductions which the Council considered to be unconstitutional, not all of them. In other words, for example, the thirteenth and fourteenth wages have been found to outweigh the logic of the public's financial interests, as Mrs Sakellaropoulou said, our current President in a speech on the presentation of a book by Mr Venizelos, who is one of Greece's contributors to bankruptcy, obviously meaning the financial burden. It is, of course, good that medium-term reductions are not adopted, which on the basis of the European Union's assessment from November 2018 would lead to a significant increase in poverty among the elderly. We also reserve, of course, the possibility of exchanges which the government has given, reminding us that in the past Mr Georgiadis and Mr Kammenos had mentioned that pensions were exchanged with the delivery of Macedonia's name, while others were not claiming German allowances. We, of course, believe that the consideration for the betrayal of Macedonia, which has unfortunately already been forgotten - one of our major flaws is that we are diligent, so condemned to pay our same mistakes at all times - is the extension of the EUR 96 billion that we have been given at the same time. According to data from EUROSTAT of 2015, pension expenditure in Greece was 17.8% of GDP at the highest rate of the European Union, obviously due to the huge fall of our GDP, while the average in the European Union was 12.8%. There is provision for convergence with the European Union over a period of time, either in 2070 or with the greatest growth in Greece's GDP, but the problems that we mentioned at the outset were very difficult, or with their freezing that is most likely. The average pension in Greece was estimated in 2015 at EUR 882, 713 main and EUR 169 ancillary - I submit it in the Minutes - when in Europe it ranged from EUR 250 per month to EUR 1,600. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Portugal it was EUR 833, in Spain EUR 1,020, in Lithuania EUR 242, in Slovakia EUR 408, in Poland EUR 504, in France EUR 1,032 - plus 25% to 50% subsidiary, especially for France - while in West Germany from EUR 1,576 for men and EUR 1,302 for women - there is a great difference there - while in the former East Germany from EUR 1,303 for men and as EUR 1,219 for women. However, the question of pensions cannot be judged alone, that is, without analysing other parameters, such as the very high percentage of contributions that reach 44% - from the highest in the European Union - the cost of benefits, the cost of living, the age of retirement, life expectancy and so on. For example, Ireland has the lowest amount of pension, but also the lowest percentage of employers' contributions, while Greek governments seem to choose the opposite, obviously for party reasons. We must note, however, that pensioners have lost large sums in recent years with the Memorandum Reductions and with the internal valuation, as well as the funds from the PSI, with which Greece has been bankrupt. The reductions between 2010 and 2015 amounted to between 20% and 50% for high pensions. Indicatively, all the reductions from the reductions at issue to the anti-constitutional level were calculated by Mr Petropoulos to EUR 67 million. I'm filing it in the Minutes. However, according to a study by the Vice-President of the National Analogue Authority, Marianna Papamichael entitled 'Risinoscopy of insurance reforms with the pension return index', the general returnability of the insurance system, i.e. pensions for all insured persons from 150% in 2011, is well to say the truth - it fell to 121% in 2014, to 101% in 2016 and is expected to be reduced further to 89% in 2019, i.e. in 2011 from EUR 100 reservations you received a pension of EUR 150, which is of course not viable, while in 2016 from EUR 100 just EUR 89, we were on the opposite side. It would be no exaggeration, therefore, to say that parents wasted their children's pensions, in addition to early retirements, such as in Olympics with a little over forty years and many other cases. In essence, however, the bill covers those who have more than thirty pension years, so it might be that the government wanted to share a tip of thoughtless thought and that it will not give rise to this increase for many years, especially because of the usual reduction in life expectancy from the policy of the memorandum. I would remind you here that in Russia the life expectancy has been reduced ten years when it was in the IMF. We also remind you here of Mr Tsipras' statement that it makes no sense to reduce pensions to those who are over seventy years old. With Article 46 of the draft law, the insurance contributions of full-time employees are reduced by 0.90 percentage points, which belongs to the positives of the bill, such as the reintroduction of supplementary pensions by Article 44 to the levels that were before the June 2016 cuts, but these financial charges should reasonably be covered, while, as we said, you consider the bill to be fiscally neutral. We therefore wonder how the miracle will happen, while we expect it to be confirmed by the General Accounting Office of the State. In the case of new selfemployed self-employed persons, it is good that they are given the possibility of a monthly contribution of EUR 93 from the start of the profession under Article 35. Continuing to Article 32, the insured persons of the ECA who carry out two or more professional activities, an employed or self-employed or self-employed person or a profession subject to the insurance of the former GAAP, shall, for each occupation, pay the envisaged new insurance contributions as the maximum rate of insurance remuneration. In its positive terms, the provision is that compulsory tread insurance is abolished when the insured person is employed. In other words, the possibility of selecting from what insurance contribution will be covered. As far as the employment of pensioners is concerned, I have the following to say. ECA pensioners can work with a 30% reduction in their pension, but they will pay insurance contributions and taxes. It is of course a good thing that pensioners are able to work, but the question of the parallel collection of this pension or part of it should be considered more closely. In addition, it concerns a country which suffers from unemployment especially among young people, so this is a controversial provision. Also, the bill allows the retired farmer to work and receive 100% of his pension when his income does not exceed EUR 10,000. We believe that the provision is positive for farmers and local communities, while covering certain specific categories of pensioners such as HEIs, scholars and war pensions. Finally, we would like to draw attention to two issues: the third pension and retrospective benefits, which may be fair, but they will not be given because there is either money or creditors do not agree. They govern Greece hereafter: First, pensions. Mr. Georgiadis recently said that there is no money for the thirteenth pension, that is, for the partial allowance that SYRIZA paid in 2019, when Mr. Mitsotakis after the elections assured that they would be permanently paid. Article 47 shows that it will be paid this year, but that it will then be left to the relevant ministerial decisions and disposals, we assume that it will be in line with the cash possibilities and the disposal of our lenders. Second, retrospective. It concerns the anti-constitutional reductions of EUR 6 billion, but where the arrangements in the bill in Article 44 seem to amount to EUR 3.7 billion. It is reported that approximately 1.3 million pensioners with a sum of pensions above 1,000 euros are affected and are expected to receive retroactively for three to five illegal reductions depending on the fund where they belong. At the same time, 1.2 million pensioners with a total pension of less than 1,000 euros, especially the low pensioners, will receive retroactively from the return of their gifts. Retrospectives will be up to 15,800 euros in government main pensions, while in other funds retrospectives reach 8,700 euros on average to move to 5,500 euros. In order to cover the payments of the thirteenth pension and the retrospectives, the money will come from the budget. In particular, according to Article 47, expenditure in the annual social budget will be about 0.5% of GDP, i.e. about EUR 1 billion. However, this is not enough to cover all retrospectives and the thirteenth pension within one year, when the retrospectives will be paid gradually. In this respect, clarifications on the amounts and the duration of repayment should be provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u102	Before I call the next speaker, I can make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-seven Dutch students of law and three school attendants, members of the "Study Association Codex". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I invite the special rapporteur from Mera25, Mr Maria Apachidis, to step up for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just one reading of the bill is enough to understand that it is a genuine child of the memorandum or, otherwise, the application of the Katrugalos law. It applies and strengthens previous legislation. With the exception of the decoupling of the insurance contributions from taxable income, it itself holds the backbone of the Katrugalos Act. It renames several provisions of the Katrugalo Law while ensuring that it adds provocative neoliberal and party-type regulations. At this point, let me make a general comment. The legislation of a new insurance system must go beyond the obsessions of the party-type and serve first of all the constitutional principles governing social security, namely, recompense, universality, intergenerational solidarity, compulsoryity and equality. On this basis, we consider that this draft law turns the insurance system into an insurance grid of neoliberal-type benefits. This destroys every concept of intergenerational solidarity, with inevitably class results. With your choices you leave a whole generation hanging, turning the social security system from redistributive to rewarding and capitalising. Let us not forget, however, that social security should not be another financial issue for economic policy. It should not be a forward-looking deposit, but a support fund for generations. The insurance system must be a sign of culture and development. In practice, however, with this bill you are continuing the monumental policies, you are transforming the welfare state into a state of charity. This means that the social state is alarmingly shrinking, that the number of poor pensioners is considerably increased, that social and income inequalities are increased, that the sense of injustice is established, that there is a doubt about the collapse of the insurance system. For all the above reasons, this draft law cannot be described as reform. The most correct designation is a consistent succession of the Memorandum Law of Katrugalo. I will therefore concentrate on Article 35 on the contributions of the professions concerned. With the bill, we go to an individual capitalisation system, where each employee becomes a manager of himself and chooses what best interests him. In particular, the system of the free choice of insurance was provided for by the bill for freelance professionals and self-employed persons. Six levels of insurance were defined with different contributions. However, the vast majority of the insured free-traders, of 90%, will have to pay a contribution of 20% greater than the present ones. The obvious results are summarised below. Firstly, the most powerful, i.e. the fewer, are economically disadvantaged, and the weaker, i.e. most, are economically wronged. Secondly, those of the freelance professionals who have high incomes will opt for the lowest insurance class and be targeted at private insurance. You create a risk exit to private insurance to the professional. Because the economically stronger ones will be able to pay the minimums and under no circumstances meet the constitutional obligation to participate in public burdens according to our powers. At the same time, they will ensure the return to private insurance companies. On the other hand, the minimum burdens are increased for economically weaker. The alleged option of an insurance category is a privilege for the strong and unbearable obligation for the weak. Of course, the Council of State considered that it should not be excessively affected by income produced and it is true that the free traders had been disproportionately imposed by the Katrugalou Act. You are establishing a new type of inequality within the insurance system and you are making a major blow to social cohesion, as employees will bear the burden of the sustainability of the insurance system. The bill is the most classic and neoliberal. It abolishes social solidarity. You will also allow me to comment on the special insurance category of new freelance professionals. Your bill establishes a special insurance contribution for them at EUR 93, at their request for the first five years. In other words, it is much more than half of the minimum basic levy and once. In Mera25, on the contrary, we have proposed five years tax and insurance immunity for newly-built small enterprises 'Tar Tabs'. If we do not give this opportunity to new businesses, we will not lead to the much-needed growth that will bring new jobs, more good wages and better pensions. With regard to Article 28 on the employment of pensioners, let us speak openly. The 30% reduction relates to retired workers, without distinction when they were retired and without a lower threshold. You care to suffer the decline and the unsuspecting retired before the resolution of the Katorugalou Act, i.e. before 13 May 2016. After the consultation stage, you have arranged to postpone the application of the provision on 1 March 2021. However, the time shift does not change either in substance or in the anti-constitutional provision. At the same time, of course, you are scandalous to take care of your own pensioners who will be employed in the public sector and whom you will appoint. You are also entitled to a pension, even if you are entitled to 30% and to a full salary. As a reason, you have referred to the use of these people's experience. Don't abuse our logic. One employer, the Greek State, will pay the others and pensions and wages. The Greek State itself, which at the same time states that it cannot pay the thirteenth pension. The same Greek State that reduces pension costs. The same Greek State that insists in the examination of the grant of an allowance from OPEKA to be indifferent to the actual tolerance and takes into account the imputable income rather than the actual income. The same Greek state that insists, by the Greeks that you have made them economic immigrants, to deprive them of the temporary pension, no matter how they will be bio-pollutant. The same Greek state that insists on extreme injustices to vulnerable groups of the population, people with disability problems. The injustices that the Memorandum Law of Katrugalu has introduced, of course, you, are making sure that they are maintained. I would like to focus a little on the issue of pensioners. Their national pension, of EUR 384, shall be reduced according to their disability rate and, in particular, to pensioners with a disability rate of 50%, the national pension shall be EUR 192. I mean, it's dropping to half. Our position is clear. To people with disabilities, national pensions should not depend on their disability rates, and this is not a party's position closely, it is not opposition. This is a national, human political welfare option. It is the real concept of the social rule of law. A similar issue is faced by our compatriots, the Pontius and the Northcontinentals, who see them as second-class Greeks and that, because their national pension with the Memorandum of Understanding is reduced according to their permanent residence years in Greece, so none of them receive 384 euros, which presupposes forty years of permanent and legal residence. I am not referring, therefore, to accidentally implementing and strengthening the previous Memorandum Policy. With regard to the most important Article 24 for the repayment pension and the new rate of replacement, you have made sure that you give the impression that no reduction will take place with this bill and that there will be even increases. The reduction in pension expenditure, however, in absolute figures, shows that ultimately reductions only have to wait for their pension income rather than increases. Compliance with the decisions of the Council of State concerns a small number of our fellow citizens and, as is clear from the proportionate study, it will be financed by the abolition of the dismantling of the thirteenth pension. The vast majority of these pensioners who retired before the Kakrugalos law and have suffered all the unconstitutional communiqué horizontal cuts, will see one more line in their newsletter. In their pocket, in their household, everything will remain commemorative. Speaking in particular of the new replacement rates, it is evidently affected by those who have insurance periods over forty years and have submitted a claim for retirement after 1 October 2019. They will reduce the annual rate by 2% per year to 0.5%. Your specific choice calls into question a fundamental principle of social security, such as the principle of reciprocity. It is not just that this choice contradicts the decision of the Council of State. It is mainly that your obsession is suddenly out of constitutional principles and limits. Let us remind you that the Council of State has decided that the replacement rates laid down in Law No4387/16 are particularly low in itself. The accident is that the results of the new pension will be seen more clearly in ten years when the younger generation of workers begin to retire. This share of the population who worked and continues to work with wages within the minimum wage will in future receive a minimum pension. Compliance with the Council of State is typical and not substantial and you know it. In Mera25 we believe in the basic principles of social security. In accordance with Article 22(5) of the Constitution, we are defending the principles of sustainability and adequacy of benefits. We must not forget that the basic principle of social security is the principle of solidarity. In Mera25 we prefer a distribution system that redistributes income between generations, in the sense that the active insured persons by paying their contributions give the necessary liquidity to the insurance agencies to pay benefits to beneficiaries. That is the concept of intergenerational solidarity. This is threatened by this draft law which promotes individual recompense for solidarity and social cohesion, in a way that increases the minimum levels to be paid by the weaker. It trains all and especially the strongest to follow the private insurance logic in which they are ultimately encouraged to resort. In Mera25, of course, we want to combine the principles of social solidarity and the sustainability of the insurance system. That is why we have tabled specific proposals to each other and I will briefly mention them for reasons of time. It is the provision of bank leave to the GOI over and their conversion to the development bank needed by the country. The new development bank retains what is left of public property, using as a guarantee to raise resources for public and private investment. If a public asset is sold, it is ensured that shares are retained from the State that they take to the insurance funds with a view to their permanent support. The shares of the new development bank are given to the insurance funds, thus strengthening their capitalisation. These measures to ensure sustainability are within the framework of the broader upper-level sections proposed by Mera25 for the recovery of the country, which I will not develop here for reasons of time. To sum up, the reason why we reject the draft law is that this is a bill that incorporates all the monumental cuts and inspires a hard neoliberal logic that abolishes transgenic solidarity and social cohesion for the sake of an individual capitalist system. The latter is, in fact, voluntary for delivering everyone to private insurance. He abandons the art of practicable. In our view, bills and laws should not and should not tend to deal with symptoms, but should be a hindrance to the forefront of dealing with the structural problems of society. That is why it is necessary, by means of the legislation emanating from the reform of the insurance system, to solve problems relating to pillars of social security, such as the reduction of undeclared black labour, the reduction of long-term structural unemployment that deprives resources and contributions, the elimination of part-time work which deprives full contributions. For all these reasons, we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too, because you kept the 15-minute exact. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories it is attending the meeting of fifty-four students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Carditsa High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are entering the list of Members of Parliament. We start with Mr. Ioannis Callianos from New Democracy. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Imagine, Minister, that you also cut pensions. The debate on insurance is a debate involving demographic reality, economic activity, work and wages. It is therefore a matter of multifactorial, complex, but also of major importance, which requires political will. Any uncertainty simply shifts responsibility to future generations and that cannot and must no longer be a political choice for any government. The current Government of New Democracy with a sense of responsibility and with the necessary political will, ladies and gentlemen, progresses decisively in reforming our insurance system. We are creating a new digital and effective insurance system, which restores justice, strengthens the returning nature of the system and cancels the disproportionate financial burden imposed on the productive part of the Greek economy. The aim of this legislative initiative is to remove discrimination and exclusions in insurance by guaranteeing the weak and by restoring legal certainty to all those who contribute with many years of work. Above all, it cultivates the insurance conscience and inspires confidence in the workers, which had been lost in many ways, thus cultivating a concept of no-one getting a pension, thus leading to an increase in undeclared work and the perpetuation of a vicious circle for the economy. This bill entrusts the solidarity of generations, endogenous and transgenic, free professionals from this suffocating system of contributions are finally released and the new ECA is digitized. In particular, the digitisation of the new ECA, ladies and gentlemen, is a fragment, as it significantly reduces bureaucracy and promotes a faster resolution of the outstanding pension applications. SYRIZA not only inherited us over a million outstanding pensions, assumptions and outstandings of the insurance funds to pensioners and insured persons, but today insists on criticising without making any sign of self-criticism. You should know that it bothers Greek citizens and they understand that. And the worst of all, without SYRIZA having tabled any proposal for insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system, as it was designed, was a brake on society and development, deprived of resources from the productive strata, prevented employment, discouraged investment in work and favoured the avoidance and growth of the black economy. Superficial contributions and bureaucratic labyrinth were timeless pathogens and deterrents to invest in our country. This insurance bill introduced by the Ministry is the first in history accompanied by a full analogy study for main and supplementary pensions, with a length of fifty years. According to the study, the pensions are fully paid up to 2070, while the pension costs are reduced at the same time. Expenditure on benefits from 15.6% of GDP in 2018 is reduced to 12.9% in 2030, 12.8% in 2055 and estimated to go to 11.9% of GDP in 2070, thus approaching the average of the euro area. The replacement rates are increased for more than thirty years of insurance and wage labour contributions are reduced for unemployment, housing and the workplace. The ceiling on the sum of basic and supplementary pensions shall be abolished, a voluntary pension insurance shall be introduced for supplementary pensions and a one-off benefit and the consolidation of insurers shall be completed. Most importantly, the new insurance is based on freedom of choice, ladies and gentlemen. This is very important, as it introduces the decoupling of income contributions for freelance professionals, and farmers, of course, by the introduction of six specific categories of contributions, from which the insured person can freely choose. Finally, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the sustainability of insurance is also in full relation to demographics, which is perhaps the greatest challenge we have to face as a nation as a whole. Demographic is an open wound, for if we do not do something, we will face not only the sustainability of the insurance system, but also our very existence as a nation. That is why the government has, from the outset, prioritised the reversal of the negative trend in demographics, a matter that has national dimensions and goes beyond the horizon of a government term of office. We have joined this national objective, voted for the EUR 2 000 birth allowance for every child born, lighten the tax burdens on all Greek citizens and businesses and create a favourable investment climate in order to stop Brain Drain and young people being able to live, create families and promote their country. In other words, we must offer our young people who are leaving, the educated young people with graduates and doctors, not in other areas, not in other countries, but in our country. It is therefore very important to create those competent and necessary conditions for our young scientists to come to their country and work for their country in a well-paid position. Young people want equal opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, to create dignity in their place and to define their own lives as they wish, rather than to be hostage politicians that equate everyone and everything down. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to vote in favour of the first insurance law after twelve years with increases and not reductions in pensions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am proud to vote in favour of the first in history of an insurance bill accompanied by a full specific proportional study proving the viability of the insurance system by 2070 and ensuring all pensions by then. And I am proud more than anything that inadmissible Katrugalou law is now a past. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u106	I call to Stepma the Deputy of SYRIZA, Alexandros Triantafylides. I would remind you of those who have recently entered the Chamber that Members of Parliament are a hundred and fifty-six. That means we have to keep the time. Here, Mr Triantafylides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what is happening on the islands of the Eastern Aegean, I cannot take the opportunity from the Step of Parliament to present my opinion. What is happening on the islands of the Eastern Aegean is an unprecedented outbreak of violence, authoritarianism and repression. The doctrine “where no word is leaking, a rod is pierced” in full application. The extreme right-wing doctrine of the violence and repression expressed by the ideologically and effectively expressor of Maki Voridis, Minister of your Government, is now becoming a government dogma. He proudly proclaimed as early as November: "Legislation contains evidence of enforceability". "I say it sweet," he said. "The wood is an element of compelling," he said. This doctrine I mean: Where there is no place for democratic dialogue, there is what they have been experiencing since the morning with the campaigns - it reminds me of the Milean campaign for anyone who read Thucydides - to understand the Aegean islands, because that is where the enemies are, the islands. Thus, the administrative failure, the'scatter' incapacity, the obvious uselessness of the government from the result - as neoliberal this is said to be 'all of the result' - is becoming the most dangerous government that the place for social peace and social cohesion has known. There is a request for dramatically cooling, democratic dialogue and immediate decongestion of the islands. The democratic citizens of the islands, all the true democrats from all sides, from the enlightened right to the left, reverse violence as an affront to the nemesis and the cleansing. These citizens will calmly ensure social peace and social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, coming to Vima, I was thinking that today we are experiencing an unprecedented déjà vu, a nightmare remake, which is the channels that present it as an unnecessarily inappropriate trip to Sounio. Once again the Mitsotakis Government chooses to bring a new insurance law that breaks down established rights of retired and insured persons. But today there is no memorandum and there is no memorandum thanks to the sacrifices of Greek citizens. And yet the Minister himself - who comes back where? At the crime scene? - who, in the two years 2012-2014, chose to cut down pensions and abolish the pensions of our fellow brothers, dismissals from Pontus, from the northern continent, from Istanbul, from Imbros and Tenedo, again comes in spite of the amendment that we tabled in order to have and to report the total amount of the House, now that there is no election, now that there is no fear of the vote, that we all vote together and return to the minimum that the country does not turn its back on its abominations and its over-age insurers and the minimum that it can give, the national pension of EUR 30, eighty-four, gives it. Announce it, Minister. We have tabled a specific amendment, with the signature of eight of our fellow Members, for the full simulation of these allowances - a pension rather than a pension - so that this message can actually be given. Forty-eight thousand were the older people, only eight thousand have left since 2012 for cutting it. And as you know, there's also the report, Mr. Brutsi, the eater and heal. You cut it, you'll return it back. And we hope that the report by the Prime Minister for the Northcontinents obviously also concerned the Greek Pontians from the former Soviet Union, where your colleagues, the New Democracy MPs, were electorally going and called 'vote to us'. 40% of Mitsotakis also came from these votes of the ultra-aged relatives. Give them the power, before they leave this life, to know that the country didn't turn its back on them. At least it restores their dignity. That's what they're asking. They won't solve a problem with 360 euros. You cut off the thirteenth pension, which Mr Mitsotakis announced a few months ago to the PPC that the so-called thirteenth pension given last May would be maintained, while leaving it open and the possibility of permanentization. At that time he described the 15th pension as the election bonus of SYRIZA. Keep the exceptional allowance of pensioners paid early this year as an election bonus, Mr.Mitsotakis said. And shortly after the elections, once again, Mr Vorides, when the question was asked 'will the Government of New Democracy keep the thirteenth pension', he said 'What we voted on is the case'. Your word guarantee! A hundred! You said that, didn't you? In other words, here in this House you voted for the thirteenth pension, so that Mr Brutsis would then come in and say "for us there has never been a thirteenth pension". So what exactly did you do? Did you vote for something that didn't exist? What exactly did you do? What metaphysical concerns and existential issues are political issues that you put to the Greek people? It's really embarrassing what you're doing. Tell the truth: "We wanted to take, as with Macedonian, as with immigration, as with a number of issues. But we said election, but we do post-elections." You also said a permanent thirteenth pension, which is abolished for all, especially for the low-pension workers, up to EUR 500, and there is the famous support mechanism there. Where is Mr. Mitaris, your Deputy Minister, who has now left after having solved the 15th pension promised? Retired people are looking for him, Mr. Metarakis. He told them that another mechanism would be set up to replace the thirteenth pension. Where's the thirteenth pension? It was lost in the labyrinth of the procedure chosen by the New Democracy to be a procedure exclusively for the chair. Whatever dawns you. The right one doesn't know what's on the left. You are doing the same in the pensions process. And you know what? People and retired people know it and they know it well. They'll see it in their pockets. Already they see it with the abolition of the thirteenth pension, and compare it very soon these messages will be sent to you. The increases made by the government are from non-existent to accounting. Here you arrived at the end and moved the proportional study. And the proportional study for Greek retired people what does it say? On the one hand, it is the current system of SYRIZA, on the other hand, the reform of Mr Brutsi, which says about increases. Of course everyone's gonna make raises. The retired man is waiting to see them in his pocket. And what does he see here? This Regulation shall enter into force In 2021 it goes to 2.202. 202 is more than 224. And 2022 goes to 2.119. And next year, 2024 goes to 2,070, and that's what's called increases. Honestly, even here the numbers are red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u108	Close, Mr. Triantafylides, there's no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u109	Since they did not blush their mouths, they did not blush the minds that thought about it, you continue your election mockery. The world, the citizens now have appreciated you. It has been divorced, measured and found not just weak, not inadequate, in a cresent of violence and authoritarianism, which the democratic people and democratic citizens will certainly give you the answer very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u110	May I invite the Prime Minister of the Change Movement, Mr. Georgios Frangidis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek social security model includes three pillars, social security, social welfare and the national health system. Our insurance system over time is shaken by structural diseases, deficit funds, shifting economic burdens to future generations. These, together with the modern data of the crisis, unemployment and demographic problem, make its reform a crossword for strong solvers. The main feeder of an insurance system, regardless of its philosophy, is workers with their contributions. On the other hand, the demographic problem, unemployment, the growth deficit are factors which are undermining its viability. Demographic developments in recent decades in Greece have been disappointing. Our population is ageing and shrinking - since 2011, moreover, deaths are more than births - while migration flows toward the outside and Brain keep well. At the same time, life expectancy increases, the retirement age limits go up. We have an ageing workforce and therefore a low productivity. The economicly inactive population is increasing compared to the active and productive economy. So, somehow, the foundations of the insurance system and social cohesion are being shaken. The recent legislative attempt to deal with demographic by the government was like a mirror for indigenous people. It was not a draft of an integrated demographic policy, whereas they were exhausted at the level of allowances and, in fact, under restrictive conditions. On the other hand, our party has made a concrete and comprehensive proposal for a law on demographics, which you unfortunately have not heard. With a view to strengthening the country's development perspective, we have also done so in tax. Without growth and workers we cannot talk about sustainable insurance. So, without new resources. Moreover, the resources are not inexhaustible. The Generation Solidarity Fund, which was legislated on our proposal in 2013, aimed at creating a reserve and indicated the extraction of resources from the exploitation of our country's mineral wealth. New resources for insurance may also arise from the exploitation of public property. The draft law on insurance brought to the vote by the Government of New Democracy, not only does it not abolish the Katrugalos law, as Mr Mitsotakis had promised in the election, but on the contrary strengthens him. This is a piece of legislation below the expectations and severity of the circumstances. It is not a reform. It also says that the Court of Auditors' opinion, where it talks about the adoption of the regulations of Law No4387/2016 and significant amendments thereto to specific provisions which were deemed to be unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, the necessary reform that the country needs could only be achieved in terms of cooperation and extrovert, through dialogue with civil society, social and scientific institutions and political bodies. But that was not the case. I would remind you that our own insurance reform in the years of the crisis in 2010 was a product of multi-month consultation, thorough study and careful planning. The New Democracy bill does not meet the requirements for it to be successful. It does not guarantee justice and the sustainability of the insurance system, nor the dignity of pensioners. It does not take into account the new circumstances and the existence of surpluses. It does not provide a threshold and a minimum guaranteed income for pensioners. It does not bring back the ESS. It creates many speed pensioners. It maintains the increased retirement age limits of the Katrugalo law without exceptions. It does not abolish the provision relating to the retirement age limit to life expectancy. It maintains the reductions in the basic and supplementary pensions, as well as in the case of widows and disabled persons. It does not remove the provision for further reduction of the FAA. It does not extend the list of heavy and unhealthy pending since 2011. It maintains the very low rates of supplementation of the Katrugalo Law for the vast majority of pensioners, who have up to thirty years of service. It maintains the injustices for our relatives' pensions from Albania and Pontto. It abolishes the so-called thirteenth pension issued by SYRIZA. The government is trying to create the impression that every pensioner will see an increase in his pension. In practice, however, those who may not see a reduction in retirement are those who have over thirty years of insurance for up to forty. We are talking about five hundred and sixty-five thousand people insured. Of these, only sixty - five thousand will see a small increase of 3%. The majority of those insured with up to thirty years of insurance or over forty will see nothing. EFCA is created after the EIF has been incorporated. For its administration, a multiplier stimulus model is created which, based on data from the lack of staff, inappropriate software and outstanding pensions increased by four thousand every month looks more like a communication product and less with a flexible body for the benefit of citizens. Mostly, the bill does not provide and does not guarantee a good future for the new generation. The real risk, however, to a sustainable insurance system is mainly for young generations. Even if we managed to get out of the crisis immediately, we would have had to face the ageing population. Our children are the ones that will fuel our pension contributions. That is why they should live and produce in Greece. We must do this and make our country attractive to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u112	The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Marinos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill brought by the government to Parliament is extremely dangerous for workers and pensioners, employees, farmers and professionals. And this is recorded in their thoughts, despite the asynchronous lies of the government mechanism and Mr Brutsi that makes black white. The workers condemned mass struggles in SYRIZA's anti-SYRIZA law, the Katorugalou law, because it increased the retirement age to sixty-seven years. He calculated the pension pay, not at the basis of the last five years, but throughout working life and dramatically reduced the rate of replacement. It established the payroll on private criteria and abolished the EKT by further shrinking the pensions, which in the years of the crisis were 40% to 50%. On this road continues the Brutsi bill and causes the rage of workers, as the previous strike showed. The evidence is undeniable. We live in the 21st century. And your policy, Minister, is matched by disgraceful wages and pensions, by the eruption of working rights. The minimum pension, national and reward, with 15 years of service and 500 euros pensions, is EUR 403, while even before it was EUR 492 plus 230 the EAEC. We had a total of 722 euros. The reduction is tragic. It's 319 euros. With a 20-year service and a 1,000-euro pension, the national pension is EUR 542, all mixed. With thirty years of service and 1,000 euros pension, the total pension is EUR 647. It is avoided that retired people who have been able to shove blood to catch between 15 and 30 years of work through redundancies, unemployment and flexible forms of employment are over 80% of the retired and you are trying to play with the workers with forty and more years of service who are throwing them a stunt. What will retired people eat? How will they pay the drugs? How will they live? You condemn them to death. You continue the dirty work of PASOK and SYRIZA to give billions to large businesses. The pension for young workers becomes a rare species and we ask: When and when will young workers receive parttime and temporary work? You're talking about growth, about capitalist growth and you're charming, but hunger pensions remain frozen until 2023. The State budget expenditure has been reduced for 2020 by EUR 220 million. You continue to abolish the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, with which you have a few holes in the pensioners and face the demand for the reintroduction with class hatred. You have the courage to defend the retirement age limit at sixty-seven years today, in 2020, which has reached the heights of labour productivity and which can be retired early, to live as people, to enjoy their children and grandchildren. In the years of the crisis, the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA removed over 108 billion euros from the pensioners to give them to entrepreneurs, bankers and other "fruits" and pensioners claim the recovery of losses. The position of Members of the New Democracy which we have heard in committee goes beyond the challenge. They have the courage to speak of a bill of social justice, continuing with the misleading practice of SYRIZA. The lie's got short feet and it won't pass. Social security since the early 1990s has been at the heart of the attack by the European Union, its big capital and its parties, as a key element of the strategy aimed at competitiveness and profitability of the major economic groups. The aim of the attack is to eliminate the social characteristics of insurance, to promote the logic of reciprocity and privatisation, to work to deep ageing, to be active - as it is called - ageing, in flexible forms of employment, without collective agreements. Capitalism, the system you serve, is barbaric and the workers are called upon to think seriously that it is no longer going. Their lives and needs have been linked to the struggle for radical changes, to the struggle for the overthrow of capitalism, to the socialist society that has proved to be capable of satisfying popular needs. This solution is looking into the future. The JRC's positions are valuable to workers and pensioners because they set the basic objective of a single, public, universal, compulsory social security that includes pension rights, free health and welfare. To abolish all the carpets that have been imposed in recent years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. To this end, workers and pensioners are invited to assemble to strengthen the claiming struggle for the restoration of losses, the return of stolen reserves, to pay for the state and the employer who took them, to pay the shipowners for the robbery of the NAT, to increase the pensions of seafarers who are resurrected for the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. We say: No pension below EUR 600, no wages below EUR 751 as bases for substantial increases. Reduction of retirement age limits in sixty years for men, at fifty-five for women. On this basis, the fight can be strengthened. And we want to call all the workers on Thursday at 18:30 in the Propylaea. No one's missing! We must strongly condemn this abortion and demand the satisfaction of the people's labour demands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u114	I will summon to Stepma the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Maria Athanasios for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the new insurance policy which was announced, studied and completed by another Greek Government. Well done! Only in Greece do these happen. Every new government is changing the insurance system, the tax system, the educational system, the national health system and, in any case, any system that should normally be a stable system for the citizen and always aiming at making up-to-date updates and improvements in line with modern trends. The only thing that does not change, of course, but remains stable and indelible is the system itself, which instead of protecting and serving the citizen, persecuting him and afflicting him. The insurance system in Greece for years has been a problematic field. It is problematic that no one has ever dealt with this whole and globally, but there were only fragmentary interventions. No one has dealt with the safe tomorrow of insured persons, but also of the insurance company itself, as a field of fair remuneration. There have never been timely and valid studies on the issues of the institution itself. For a number of years, governments have been legislating for joys and guilds, but also for electoral policy, sometimes turning contributions into taxes. His tactics were adopted 'the stealing of the stealer' and it is now unreasonable to expect that there will be an absolute recompense for the insurance system, for example on matters of retirement, because, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has become a problem and the problem of sickness has become a problem. What security are we talking about, Minister? The current insurance reality is a threat and even a threat. The Katorugalou law proved, although it appeared from the outset that it was below expectations and on the wrong basis. Although we hoped that today’s draft law would improve bad texts, it will probably develop them. It promotes the already engraved course of the Katrugalos Act, since on many issues it remains the same, for example, in maintaining age limits, in reducing supplementary pensions and in one-off. While the EIF and the subsidiary insurance in EVA are intensified at the same time, thus opening up a way perhaps for the complete abolition. And EKKA takes all its 7 billion euro reserves. I'm going through the insurance class, instead of the way I want it. Indeed, it is a reasonable element in the draft law, but there is a risk, given the weak and weakened economy that combines with the greatest unresolved issue of the Greek demographics and hides traps for the insured. The non-occupationals will choose the low class, without the luxury of a long-term prediction of the needs that will arise over the years and only thinking about the present and the requirements of everyday life. But when the time comes, how will they know if their pensions will be sufficient? They are therefore trapped with their own fault, because of their poor choice, and the state bears absolutely no responsibility. At the same time, the minimum contributions to the professions are increasing. But, Minister, it is the first time that growth is coming, capitalised and then increases of this kind begin. In Article 35 you link the increase in contributions to the rise in the consumer price index and the increase in wages. However, when they are reduced or in a negative sign, why is there no corresponding reduction? In other words, in a period of prosperation, we are still paying more and during a recession. So, when the people don't have one, they shouldn't be helped? In this draft law, we find that the contribution for OAED is still there, although no one can confirm that the EUR 400 million collected goes to their destination. But, after this retention, are you preparing to enter and check the mistakes in our polypathic country to which you are preparing to provide welfare and protection through the OAED? In Article 36, I believe that farmers who have been affected by natural disasters, or by destruction of their production without their own fault, are entitled to a percentage discount in their contributions to the insurer, for example for two months. Also, as a doctor, I think that you should have included in the new insurance scheme the demands of the UENGE concerning the qualification of the work of the doctors of the RIS as unhealthy and the inclusion of their daily work as a pension for the time that will be an incentive and for the service of our remote hospitals, which, at best, have two or three doctors per specialty. In addition, should your Government not have already made the requirement to comply with the hospital administrations in the S.H.E. 431/2018 decision, which requires that the pre-reductions of 2012 be reinstated and that the new salaries of doctors be applied? In conclusion, the current draft law sets out in principle problematic points, since the key problematic provisions of the ‘Katrugalos’ do not change the age limits, nor do the retirement of over-age workers cause the entry of young people and unemployed persons into the labour market, while the old, current pensions with retroactive legislation are recalculated. The retroactive amount of pensions to be recovered following which incorrect, unlawful provisions entered into force were calculated from October 2019 and not from May 2016, which entered into force those restrictive provisions. Either way, we're in today. And today is already yesterday and it's glamorous! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u116	I call to Stepma the MEP of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as expected, the government brings a bill on the insurance that it is doing? One key thing: it puts private insurance through the back door. The history of sins with our insurance system is already beginning with Constantine Karamanlis and the management of the funds' reserves in the best way, which has actually led to the bleeding of these reserves. However, despite bad management over time, some funds managed to escape and have good reserves, such as the CSMID. This until 2012 with PSI Venizelos and Samaras, where in the 100 billion ‘haircut’ also included the reserves, the bonds of the funds. In fact, the common account that was in existence at the Bank of Greece, which was compulsory for the funds to have their savings there, was cut to 53% initially. Thus 7.3 billion were lost, a further 1.2 billion from the second "wave" of the PSI and 3.4 billion from the "haircut" of the bonds to which they had invested the insurance funds. However, losses continued through the loss of interest that the insurance funds would have received had their deposits remained. It is estimated that annually it is around 500 to 600m euros. In particular, the interest of the deposits in 2012 was EUR 700 million, and after the PSI’s ‘haircut’, they did not exceed EUR 120 million. Mr. Brutsis, you also, by name, contributed to this process, as you used the money for pension payments to keep the budget from being charged. This has wiped out any odds. If we look at today's budget, it is also clear what happens. We have expenditure ceilings for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. They're reduced by 382 million euros. Meanwhile, there is a reduction directly by EUR 192 million - this is the provision - for pension expenditure, EUR 121 million for main pensions and EUR 71 million for subsidiarys. The Memorandum of Understanding has led to the impoverishment of pensioners, whose income has been reduced by 45%. The total reduction in pensions is EUR 63 billion. But what you are bringing us today, which is, in effect, an implementing law of the Katrugalou Law, has some important additions to your mind: the absolute abolition of the tenth pension, the 20% increase in the contributions for 90% of the self-employed, but also the choice of how the self-employed will pay, so that those who have high incomes, in practice, can pay the minimum possible contributions. In practice this means a very simple thing: you send them, you allow them to go into private insurance, increasing insecurity for our insurance system, and apparently reducing the available income that will then be shared into the existing pensions. The proposal from Mera25 is very clear. We are talking about restoring pensions on the basis of a 0.2% bank tax on bank debt, while the funds of the insurance funds will be reinforced by a transfer of shares in a new development bank created by the HICP, which now stops divesting public property, but it can act as a development bank. It holds all these assets - except public goods that remain outside the fund itself - and can provide the necessary capitalisation and the strengthening of the insurance funds. So the shares of the new development bank are given to the insurance funds, strengthening their capitalisation. We are clearly against this bill and are asking for it to be withdrawn. However, I would like to make another point. Today I was in Piraeus, outside the 'COSCO' spaces. There is a party, the opening of the expansion of the port of Piraeus outwards, outside the port, inside the sea, in order to accommodate large cruise ships there. It is very impressive that this is because, as I said, this work has not been started today, no environmental conditions have been adopted. At least they are not posted in the ‘TRAINING’. Unless we've abolished that too. It is impressive, too, that we are being informed by citizens - I will take a picture of this in the Minutes yesterday - of the start of the bazaars in the wider region of Pireau, exactly where the pier is to be built. [[At this point the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is a project completely absurd that uses toxic sinks, which will cement huge archaeological sites with extreme deterioration of air quality to the inhabitants of the coastal front, but also a transport drowning, as there is no transport study. All that will be done is to use the existing roads with some paths. We are also asking for this to be stopped. It is a project, unfortunately, which began in SYRIZA and, unfortunately, is now intensified with the New Democracy. So to stop the opening of works without permits, but also to stop this crime on the back of the Piraeus people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u118	I call to Stepma the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Vartzopoulos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is an oath in the eyes of the whole world. What I am saying is a personal reference to our Minister, Mr Brutsi. My Minister, he was coming to you when we were implementing the second memorandum to handle what we had to do to save our homeland, that is, to cut off pensions. What is not widely known is that you, as a man of collective governmental will, have held fast. Thanks to your own efforts, a lot has been saved. It is, however, known that thanks to the law of Koutrumani-Loverdou, which was given us by social democracy, and your own contribution in 2015, there would be no question of insurance. All that happened then happened for two reasons. Law No.4387/2016 had two reasons. One is first of all the financial collapse of 2015 and the third memorandum that followed. The second reason is that the Left has always considered and seen in insurance and insurance policy that there should be a class approach. It is, in fact, perfectly normal on your part when it is necessary for insurance money to campaign against the middle class, to campaign against free professionals. As the late Charilaos Florakis said, however, there are issues that life solves. Such approaches life sent them to the heart of history. Life has shown that the neck of the free professional yoke doesn't lift. Life has shown that this approach has led to widespread evasion. Life has shown that this approach has led to a greatiling economy. Life has shown that this approach would lead to the collapse of Law4387. So, my Minister, this is my eye trial. You're the one who asked to restore things to their place. You're the one who wanted to create a secure insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, this law guarantees the following: first of all, it guarantees growth. All that we have voted on so far, tax exemptions, the reduction of HPAI, administrative relief to businesses, would all be meaningless if we had not dealt with this issue of the high level of contributions. The release of contributions from income leads to a substantial reduction in contributions for too many free professionals and what is it doing? This facilitates the market, normalizes the market. It increases the obvious transactions, increases the obvious gains, so it materializes growth and creates apparent growth. If we are even counting here on the reduction in employers' contributions, which comes, we see that there are real, practical, solid economic support measures. But what else is this law doing here? It ensures the future. The proportionate study, which for the first time was tabled, creates certainty for the future, but, in my opinion, what is even more important, strengthens this certainty of the future, is the creation of e-ECA. Following the proper practice of the previous government, it incorporates the EIF and digitizes procedures and the registry, the file. However, what emerges from this is a substantial reduction in the time when pensions are awarded, which, in fact, gives many of the small and medium-sized strata the dignity which has collapsed over the years. It also gives us all the opportunity to see in today's real time what pension we are going to receive. And that creates a sense of certainty. What else does he do? It strengthens competitivity and creates a sense of law. It is quite clear that the option to choose between different scales, the certainty that the absolute level of our contributions will have to do with the level of pensions and the fact that the replacement is increasing over time, over the years of work, is inconceivable. In other words, it serves what we believe, that whoever works most, who is the most, who pays more, will have more. It is the basic principle of liberalism that we are consistently trying to serve. However, this also strengthens the pillar of supplementary pension, subsidiarity and equal benefits. This enables hundreds of thousands of people who did not have it, to participate in this subsidiary system, and in the overall capitalisation system, and even by avoiding extreme capitalist systems that we know and that they do not serve the survival of a public insurance system, but do not serve the solidarity of generations. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, it is the most symbolic and emblematic bill, which we have passed all this time, because it refers to the most essential pillar of a rule of law, the insurance, and in the sense of rewarding justice and the certainty of the future. In this way, my Minister, and together with the building of a pre-innovative system around the national minimum guaranteed income, which is also made by your Ministry, we are building with slow but firm steps a European rule of law which is conditio sine qua non, is an absolute component of the European way of life, which is unique in history, only in the world and is served by bills such as today's. That is why we thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u120	I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyaka, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are discussing, there is an important reform in the area of social security, a reform which, if one considers that the representatives of bodies in the relevant committees supports and embraces the vast majority of our fellow citizens and pensioners. In three words, the bill promises confidence, speed, reward. Sure, because for the first time he responds positively and documentedly to what a lot of people have wondered about between serious and funny, that is, whether in the far future there will be a pension to get. The proportional study accompanying our bill tells us that all pensions are guaranteed for the next fifty years. In fact, as the Minister has said in committee, in the future, the costs of the pension compensation will be covered by workers' contributions and an economically sound ECA is crucial for the viability of the system. The bill also promises speed, digitisation of services, digital pension version, pension award in three months. The digital ECA promises shorter waiting times, less bureaucracy, better service of the insured, but also more time liberation from various administrative tasks so that workers in the ECA can devote themselves to the processing of pensions. The public debate may mainly concern the various parametric changes, but it is a structural change, the great leap of EVKA towards the digital age, which will have lasting and lasting benefits for all the insured. It is, therefore, certain that the speed is also the reward for long-term insurance with the increased rates of replacement after thirty years of insurance, a reward for productivity and social conscientiousness by abolishing the fiscal logic of the insurance contributions of the professionals and with an incentive for the legal employment of pensioners, a reward for the decision of young people to make their own business and to enter the production process as self-employed and self-employed. Near these three features I would put, ladies and gentlemen, and a fourth, the social sensitivity, as expressed by the provisions for various groups of fellow citizens, pensioners of lotteries and farmers, new mothers who return to work, disabled persons and their protectors, beneficiaries of widow’s pensions, provisions such as those of another importance to the so-called social mark of the insurance bill, that it is a legislation formulated on the basis of real social problems, real social situations, a piece of legislation with a look at society and the ultimate future. Before closing, I would like to refer to two amendments tabled by SYRIZA Members. In both cases, my fellow Members are violating open doors, one is proposing to abolish the reduction of the national pension by one forty-five for each year, which falls short of the 40-year-olds in Greece, so that they can receive a decent national pension and our fellow citizens who came to the country in the 1990s. That's right, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, only you're coming second. You should be aware that the Ministry is already considering how to correct this injustice. After all, the Prime Minister said so from this step on 14 February in the debate on labour. The other amendment proposes the abolition of two conditions for the allowance of uninsured overtime - I am tabling in the Minutes - the fifteen-year permanent residence in Greece and the reduction in the amount of the allowance when it has not been completed thirty years. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But here you have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that by amendment of your own government you had exempted from these conditions the members of the Albanian national minority and provided for a ministerial decision on how these people would receive the allowance. So you come with another amendment and ignore the provision of a law that you voted on as a government, but you did not implement it, as I have already tabled in the Minutes, but beyond that, you are also coming here, secondly, because the ministries of labour and finance are already working on the solution. But that's not what's going on in the leg. It will be because, first of all, we know documented and costly how many it is and what it costs. These, ladies and gentlemen, so that people know the truth and do not create the wrong impressions. Of course, such an undertaking as an insurance reform is not limited to voting on a bill. We start here with restoring the serious injustices of the Katrugalo Law, we establish the modern digital ECA, and we aim by June to electronically issue one of the three new pensions, and we will soon bring in the new supplementary insurance system by which the insured will enter an individual account and invest for their own pension. We want our fellow citizens, workers and pensioners, current and future, to know that we are working for a fair and firm social security system, a long-term system that takes account of economic and social changes, a system which does not penalise those who are consistent with their insurance obligations, which cultivates insurance and encourages work, a system that respects the so-called solidarity of generations, namely the mutual sense of responsibility, the understanding between current and future pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that our prolongation has signed some of the most important reforms in insurance over the past thirty years. We continue in this line, not only by honouring the truth agreement with the citizens but also our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u122	The Member of the New Democracy Mr Ioannis Melas shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 February 2020 until 2 March 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u123	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue and call on the New Democracy MP, Mr Dionysio Stamenitis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (e - E.F.K.A.).(')'. The four chapters and four articles of the draft law constitute the country's new insurance map, an important reform, a real break in the history of the insurance system. The debate that has taken place these days in the House takes place in a completely different context than we had used to in recent years. And that's why? This draft law brings us after a decade of hardship and suffering to the satisfaction of discussing pension increases rather than reductions. It is true, the draft law of Brutsis and New Democracy increases pensions, unlike the draft law of Katrugalo and SYRIZA that dismantled pensions. We are pleased to discuss the restoration of the injustices in the insurance sector, to finally discuss an insurance payroll which increases the rates of payroll and rewards those who work without punishing them, who at last gives hope, does not cause insecurity and the question of each employee insured if he will ever receive a pension. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at the draft law, the first element that one finds - and one needs to be stressed - is that there is an attempt to harmonise with the decision of the Council of State, which has two main features: firstly, the issue of contributions, especially for freelance professionals, and secondly, the issue of reciprocity in terms of rates of replacement after a number of years of work, because with the former Katrugalo - SYRIZA as much as anyone actually worked instead of rewarding, it was lost. The second element, which is very important and I believe that we analysed it thoroughly during the debate in the committee in the last few days, is that the injustices of the Katrugalos law for retired people working. Our logic is that pensioners are an active force piece with great experience that can offer many. With the new legislative provisions, therefore, it is possible for a human resource with knowledge and training to return to the production process. In practice it means that pensioners who wish to continue working will receive 70% of their pensions. In particular, for farmers, it is planned to pay 100% of their pension, which as a Member from an area basically rural, I would stress it as one of the most important arrangements under this law, as this rewards and strengthens the producer who wants to remain on earth, so that he can continue working and cultivate, thus keeping the countryside alive through the exploitation of an important part of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth standing at this point in the criticism we have heard all the previous time and today and in the committees by the opposition colleagues. Personally, I would like to focus on two elements: the abolition of the so-called thirteenth pension and the reward of what is more prosperous, as SYRIZA claims. In fact, following the convicted decisions of the Council of State, do you still insist on defending the linking of insurance contributions to income and to last year's income? What do you say to free professionals today? That your proposal is to go back to the anti-constitutional way of calculating contributions? I sincerely wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. Do you have anything to do with the market, with the world of work? Are you telling a lawyer, engineer, doctor, dealer, self-employed what you stand for? Is there anyone who agrees with what you're saying? So, is the one who earned EUR 25,000 net income, tax and insurance contributions at least EUR 15 000, who had a little more than EUR 9000 left to live in for him and his family? Is it possible to say these things? On the other hand, as far as your argument for the abolition of the so-called thirteenth pension is concerned, I am actually raising my hands up. Since when did election allowances become a third pension? Is that how you dream of restoring the injustices brought about by the economic crisis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u125	Have you seen the layout?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u126	We've seen them well. By election moves just before the election? Or are you moving me like the amendments you have now brought to the special charges? Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance reform we are about to vote on is above all an organized and studied effort, contrary to the law that you have passed and supported, so that Greeks and Greeks can retrust the country's insurance system. It's not just the increases that are in contrast to the reductions you've brought. Why, let us be realistic, we paid them when they were done without planning. It is mainly the way in which the insurance map is structured. For the first time, as the Minister told the committee, the new insurance policy is linked to two scientific studies, one of which concerns the sustainability of the new system and which we have tabled today in Parliament, contrary to what you have not done. All pensions shall be secured until 2070. Thus, workers feel they can retrust the insurance system whose credibility is restored to their consciences. And the first example of this confidence is the reactions of the social actors to the conference on institutions. The majority of these were placed positively against the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my position, I would like to stress that the New Democracy Government's logic is to set up an insurance system that is primarily rewarding, flexible and simple and does so, a system that will receive reasonable contributions and will return normal pensions and does so, a system that rewards those who have worked and normally paid their contributions for years and does so, a system that gives confidence to the person who works and pays his insurance contributions, and when the time comes, it will get exactly the pension that is due and it does so too. And I think that is what society is aware of today and supports the great majority of this reform. And it will be good, gentlemen, for the opposition - you have time - to do so too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-two students and students and two teachers, from the 1st High School of New Ionia Volos (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the New Democracy MP, George Kotsos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main question that concerns all of us is whether the Greek society is satisfied with the social security system that exists today. And to this question, we have only to ask workers, self-employed, farmers and professionals, and you will see the complaints, the illnesses and the fact that most people realise that the insurance policy is currently in a tax trial. Not much longer if we ask those who have been retired, then we will understand that things are much worse, especially those who have recently come out and wait in line for endless days, endless months, in order to settle their question. So these questions come to these pathogens to answer the bill under discussion. And that, because the social security system is what arouses our country for more than seventy years. There have been many studies, legislation, amendments, reforms, but many of the pathogens have maintained without a real solution to the issue. We as a government are called upon to deal with it and feel particularly pleased about it, because we demonstrate that we can put our election positions in place in practice to any challenge of our society, thus showing our immediateness and determination to change this country. We therefore come with this reform to create a new digital, effective insurance system, which is in line with constitutional principles and, on the one hand, to define a coherent and fair framework based on freedom, flexibility, reciprocity and social justice. Thus, it cancels the disproportionate financial burden imposed on an important and creative part of the Greek economy. With the redesign of the insurance system, we encourage the development of our economy. We must, ladies and gentlemen, be the only country on the planet which, by 1990, had three hundred and seven main and subsidiary bodies, with all the costs involved in administrative, technical and financial matters. We arrived at 2020, in the era of the modern digital age, for the New Democracy Government to come today, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to establish a single electronic national social security institution, e - EFKA, effectively completing the greater administrative and organisational integration of all actors by maintaining the economic and assets of individual sectors. The e-ECA will cover all the employees of the country, regardless of whether they are employees, self-employed, self-employed, civil servants, farmers, etc. On the other hand, it modernises, rationalises and improves the entire pension process by introducing digital pensions, which puts an end to the constant concern of the insured for their application and the entire bureaucratic process of services. Because when the quality of services provided increases and decreases their operating costs, economies of scale are achieved. Historically, it is the first insurance reform accompanied by studies both to demonstrate the viability of our project and to safeguard the adequacy of all pensions for the next 50 years by 2070. It also does not provide for any reduction in pensions and encourages any young person entering the labour market either as an employee or as a self-employed person. That is our main objective in a country with a strong demographic problem and a relatively large proportion of the ageing population, not to let other young people go abroad, but to give them the incentives they need to be productive in our country and be rewarded accordingly. Another real innovation of the system is, indeed, in the primary sector, fisheries, farmers, farmers, who are able to choose the level of contributions they will make to six categories and differentiate this annually depending on their economic potential and their expectation of a future pension. Because I come from a prefecture of agriculture, and I believe that the primary sector is a key pillar of our country's development, this significant change that releases income from contributions and years of insurance encourages our farmers and farmers to develop their economic activity and to set as easily as possible short-term and long-term objectives. It treats farmers with sensitivity and responsibility, without punishing them for their income, for their trouble and for their additional efforts. The effort, effort, their wealth, does not mean that the State should be given an insurance contribution, because other things are taxation and insurance. Also, our system protects 100% of retired farmers who want to continue working. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that the markets have already started to trust us, encouraging our Government to move forward and to continue the reorganisations of critical sectors, such as insurance - pension. Insurance is something that needs to be cultivated in all of us, so that we can leave our print on the country's development and reform paper. Only in this way will we achieve a sustainable insurance system, free, liberal, innovative, ensuring its returnability, without charging debts to future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u129	And we thank you for the time economy and to correct Mr Kotso, the tone I made wrong earlier. I call on the New Democracy MP, George Amyras, to step up for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, after many years, almost twelve years, when we saw pension cuts, we heard negative news about insurance, the rights of workers were being curtailed, we are finally in front of a bill, what we will call a Brutsi law, which increases the pay of thousands of pensioners and restores the sense of justice and recompense in the world of work. Let's just look at them. The Katorugalou law, whether you worked thirty years or you worked for forty years, you would receive the same pension. Although you had the misfortune to go out from 2016 onwards with the Katorugalou pension, you would receive up to 37% less pension from your colleague who did the same work, but he had already been retired. Now, the Mitsotakis government's Brooklyn bill premiums workers and strengthens pensioners. In a simple way, the workers over thirty years of insurance for each year of their work will have higher pension rights, while the young pensioners will have a much higher pension pay than the ones they would receive with the Katrugalou law. How is that possible? Simple as that. First of all, the full reorientation of the philosophy of the social security system leads to absolute freedom, the right to choose the insured person to choose the scale he wishes. No more pitfalls, no more isotopeic provisions of the past leading to black work, led to a loss of professional activity and the migration of our scientific potential abroad. A second feature of the bill is the substantial relief of free professionals and farmers by disconnecting insurance contributions with income. We had the tie movement, which the Syrians never liked, who people protested because they had to pay 75% to 80% of their contributions. So that's it. The truth is, of course, and I will acknowledge this, Mr Chakalote, two years ago here when we discussed the 2019 budget, in the draft budget report you wrote, that yes, the insurance contributions to freelance professionals should be reduced, as this effectively deregulationd and the insurance system and the world of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u131	Not only did I say we cut them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u132	After you raised them, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u133	Anyway, we've reduced them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u134	Say you've raised them first, and then we'll see how much you've reduced them. Another characteristic is that excessive charges and all free professionals are free to choose their step, with the aim of justice. It's simple. If you've been working for more than thirty years, you're definitely offering the insurance system with your contributions a lot longer than if you've been working less years. So this leads us, under the Brutsi Act, to the increased rates of replacement. For example, a worker with thirty-five years of insurance will have a 37.3% pension. How much has she had so far? He had 33.8%. A worker with forty years of insurance will have a replacement, of 42.8% who is currently under the Katrugalos Act, 50.5%. That's very important. So the system pays back money to the insured, but also maintains incentives to stay at work for thirty-five years, forty years, depending on what the person who chooses it wants. That would mean liberalism. I must also be able to choose the step by step of the contributions I will give and the number of years that I want to work for over thirty years. Another characteristic is that pensioners' increases are permanently increased. The Katrugalus Act contained shock reductions for those retired in 2016. This is now being terminated and with the vote of the new insurance and retroactively as of 4 October, the main pensions will be increased for those who are retired or retired with more than thirty years of insurance. Let us look at it with examples. A worker with thirty-six years of insurance and a 1,000-euro salary, with the Katrugalou law, gets a pension of 738 euros. With Brutsis, however, it will take EUR 782, i.e. a profit in the month 44 euros. Forty-four euros a month for twelve months, a year will put more in his pocket, 528 euros. Do you disagree, Mrs. Fotio? Because I see you're moving your head.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u135	If you're referring to me, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u136	You should answer that, of course. Let's see another example that I want, Mrs. Fotius, you guys to think about. A worker with thirty-eight years of work and a low earnings of EUR 800, with Katrugalos retiring and receiving EUR 696, with Brutsis taking EUR 743, a benefit, that is, EUR 47 a month. What does that mean? That on a yearly basis, thanks to the Brutsis Act, the pensioner - with EUR 696 in pension on SYRIZA - will be favoured by EUR 564 per year. The thirteenth, so-called pension, was supposedly not a thirteenth, and it was not a pension. Because this worker, with the example I have brought you, would take the social dividend that you gave him by election in May 340 euros. So, with the Brutsi Act, this worker as a retired person will now have a year in his pocket of more than EUR 564 on a permanent basis. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] One more thing about supplementary pensions, let us say that. You know that those who had a main pension and a subsidiary of EUR 1,300 and above, with the Katorugalou law, had a huge cut, we know that. And how many were there? Three hundred thousand pensioners from twenty different funds. All these people will see in their pensions increases now thanks to the Brutsi Act. Let's go down. You are talking about contributions that are increasing to certain categories of workers. We also need to see the tax system, but also the combination of taxation and insurance. And, in my opinion, the tax bill brought by Mr Stakouras and the insurance brought here by Mr Brutsis is comprehensive. They are the most important bills made by this government, because they have direct and tangible effects on the income available in the pocket of anyone, the worker and the retired person. For example, a low-wage employee, a low-income employee, that is to say up to EUR 10,000 a year, thanks to the tax bill, has already been reduced by EUR 1,300, because we have reduced the first import tax from 22% to 9%. Insurance contributions are slightly increased, it is true, but at the end of his year there are 770 euros left in pocket more than they were until yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, another very important element of this draft law - and I am ending, Madam President - which will become a law, is that the new system makes it possible for professionals to declare all their incomes and not to move on to black work or to tax evasion. So, for example, one to 17,000 euros annual income will benefit EUR 2,024. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is compatible with the needs of the world of work and the sensitivities of the current pensioners, who have actually suffered a great deal. However, the time has come now with the Mitsotakis Government and Brutsi Act pensioners can be justified, to see pensions raised for the first time after twelve years, but also to motivate workers to remain at work and to make sure that the system lasts for the next fifty years until at least 2070, so that you don't listen to a young man saying to you "Ba, I'm never going to retire." If young people also know that they will receive pensions and receive increased pensions, thanks to the law that we are going to vote on, the New Democracy MPs at least here on Thursday in this Chamber. Finally, I invite you to do the same to show that you honour and respect both workers and pensioners. You are voting in favour of this draft law which is a new beginning for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u137	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u138	Madam President, can we speak as Parliamentary Representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u139	How you can't. Anytime. You know that. You want to do this right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u140	Not for my protology, for a observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u141	Then, no. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. This law - I have heard many designations - is sensational, wonderful, or even terrible, disgusting. None of this is. He's not wonderful either. It's a good law, and that's for me the most important of all. It's a good law, because in fact, if we look at it, no one has a serious objection - and I'll come to it. It's a good law, because it's also a sign of good law. It is the first law to come into consultation for days, which then came to committees, and was discussed thoroughly in committee, which then came without delay, without any subsequent amendments, which is positive and which is, unfortunately, rare in the Greek Parliament. That was important to me. The second is the content of this law. This law all agrees that it is in the right direction, so if you have noticed, on the SYRIZA side, it focuses on two things: to increase the contributions mainly to free professionals and self-employed people in the first step - so? - and that the so-called third pension is abolished. The third pension is not a question of this bill. If the country's budgets ever allow it, there will be a thirteenth and fourteenth pensions and pension increases. Who wouldn't want to? Is there anyone in here who wouldn't want to be given both thirteen and fourteen and fifteen pensions? Is he able to withstand the system? No, of course not. Is there anyone in here who says he can handle the system? Oh, no. Not even my friend, Mr. Delis from the KKE won't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u143	Oh, you might say that, sorry. It's my fault. In any case, the SYRIZA's thirteenth pension was an allowance, an election allowance. I've been saying it since my show. It was an election trick and it was not real and that is why it is no longer given. Will you tell me, should the income of the low-pensioners, even those people who made the mistake not have paid enough contributions when they were active in life and now in eighty or eighty-five lives at EUR 300 a month, after the abolition of the CSCE, which SYRIZA did? You're right. And I always said that, and I wish that could happen. I wish that we would be able tomorrow for Brutsis to come along with Stakoura and say "we found the money and we will give each one a grand every year". I wish it could be done and, if necessary, I hope that if the conditions of the economy are improved and our finances will be made possible. Secondly, as far as the increase in contributions is concerned, because you talk a lot there to SYRIZA about increasing contributions: "They go from EUR 185 to EUR 220!" The EUR 35 will be raised and the free professionals, whom you and you have had to pay, will be destroyed so that they do not pay the great tax burden that you have imposed in the form of allegedly insurance contributions, you have forced them to hide incomes and have fatally lower incomes, so that they can cope with them. I am not saying what Mr Brutsi says about tax reductions going further, it will be greater the relief of the free trader. I say that, in any case, the EUR 220 for a single professional, who is a consistent worker, is not a great contribution. This contribution will also help the functioning of the EBRD, it will do better for EBRD's revenues, which were not going so well with the excessive tax burden imposed by the previous law, the Katrugalou Act. Now on the substance of the law, why do I think it is good law? Because, finally, it's what I've been saying a lifetime. There is a national pension - I once said that there is 700 euros for national pensions, unfortunately, our economy does not allow this - and from there on, what you are paying for it, depending on the time you have worked, with the contributions you have paid, with the time you get to pension. And this is to a large extent restored by this law. In other words, those who have been working for more years have more revenue. And that's good. Who doesn't want that? There's a fairer system than you pay, and as many years as you're at work, you can get a bigger pension? This is logically the most correct and this is the law of Mr Brutsi and the Government of New Democracy. These are in the right direction. In my opinion, everything that is contained in this law is in the right direction. The most important thing, though, is that perhaps for the first time after a ten-year hurricane that scanned everything in our country, we can stop talking about whether or not to retire those who have not come out and whether or not to get back into work from now on will be retired. The proportionate studies, which the new law brings for the first time, enable us to hope that by 2070 the insurance system will be sustainable. Are you going to tell me the assumptions made by the proportionate studies will be observed? We can't be 100% sure of anything. I do not hide from you that I am very concerned about demographic sizes, which are very negative for our society. But, in any case, these are the assumptions they accept worldwide and we'll see it along the way. Of course, we must also pursue an even more vigorous policy in favour of resolving the demographic problem, which started positively with a thousand young births and I hope it will continue with even more dynamic policy on the part of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So all this comes to a conclusion. The law is good, substantial disagreements we do not have and I wonder why on Thursday you will cause a roll-call vote and you will not vote on it. I'm really wondering. Be well. Thank you very much. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u144	Now Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Abraham Lincoln said you could fool them all for a while, a few for the whole time, but not all of them for the whole time. The wise Greek people say that the liar and the thief are happy in the first year. You promised everything to regain power and after only seven months in the country's governance you continued the same policy of deception, which you also implemented as an official opposition. And if you don't believe the SYRIZA executives, if you don't believe us, ask those who believed you when you said that in a week the bulldozers will enter the Greek and now we see the bulldozers will be in Chios and Lesvos. Ask the residents of the Exarchates, whom you had promised that Exarchia in a month since the country's rule will become a paradise, and today we see this normality being transferred far away from Athens, transferred to Lesvos and Chios, where we see beatings of our fellow citizens, who also believed you, as the Regional Governor of the North Aegean, who today says not even the junta did these things. It refers to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Ask the citizens of this country who were occupied by certain sensitivities and supported you to abolish the Ambassadors' Agreement, which, after you have assumed authority, honour and expose it properly. And since you have greatly honored the Prespecies Agreement - and well do it - you are now honoring the Katorugalos Act. Let us remember what Mr Mitsotakis said in the election: "In an already problematic system, the Katrugalou Act has come to widen disparities, malfunctions and deadlocks, so this law will be abolished and replaced by a new sustainable insurance system". Title: "Kyriakos Mitsotakis: I will abolish the law of Katrugalou". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So from cheating and false promises to completely abolish the law to accept reality. Yiannis Brutsis, November 2019: “We do not have the past. Everyone wanted something better, they just approached it from another logic. We will keep things well from all legislative initiatives and these will be incorporated into our own changes." And we wonder how one can keep a single system today, while the Prime Minister, your President, had said that this widened inequality and must be abolished. So the deception of frustration, as the free professionals, who at least nine out of ten, are disappointed, will be subject to considerable burdens. The previous colleague described a very small amount of EUR 35. It makes sense, because it obviously does not associate with free professionals who 35 euros a month is a sum for them. And it is your strategic choice to increase contributions to low and middle incomes by 20% to finance the reduction of contributions to very high incomes. Your priority is clearly those who have and not the middle class. The pensioners, however, who have also deceived them from the election point of view, are also disappointed. I read from an interview posted on the site of the New Democracy, what Mr Mitsotakis said in an election on the tenth pension: "What I can say is that there will be no further reduction and that our exceptional support this year is to maintain it and to be a regular extraordinary support for the low-pensioners." And another post on the Minutes: "We will catch the targets and give the tenth pension". Obviously, the previous speaker also forgot what the current Prime Minister was saying in election. Retired people have certainly not forgotten. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, then, the scale of fraud is revealed by the abolition for the second time of the tenth pension. Nevertheless, you continue to treat our fellow citizens, pensioners, as indigenous and sell mirrors. The SYRIZA government under difficult budgetary conditions, under the pressure of the troika and the institutions, has established and granted the entire tenth pension for eight hundred thousand low pensioners and proportionally 1.7 million. What do you do and what do you say to these people? You say: "What SYRIZA gave you was not a third pension, so we're abolishing it and that's why we're doing it? We are not giving you anything." You do not want to call it the thirteenth pension, describe it, baptize it as you want, but give it, as you had previously committed it, but also through your vote last May. But even the major issue of insurance, which touches the entire spectrum of Greek society, you choose to manage it in a single way, in a communication way. How can one characterise your rhetoric for months on growth, at the same time that it clearly appears at State budget expenditure that it is reduced by 200 million compared to 2019? I, like many others, thought that the long period of budgetary adjustment, the memoranda, the difficulties we have experienced taught much to all of us. Unfortunately, it seems that those of us who believe we have made a mistake. Some remain irreparable and unrepentant. They continue to repeat the same mistakes of decades, the same mistakes that have bankrupt the country and made the Greek society crucial. Unfortunately, we are again in the same play of spectators in the same tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u147	Madam President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u148	Would you like a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u149	For my normal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u150	Do you want right now? Would you allow me to give the floor to two Members, precisely because I have already promised that they should leave, and immediately afterwards to you, Minister? If it's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u151	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u152	Please, Mr Stefanidis has the floor and immediately thereafter Mrs Makre.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, Ministers, today we are being called upon to vote on an innovative draft law on insurance reform and the digital transformation of the ECA. The bill is called upon to bring home to modern times and today's status quo the insurance legislation of our country, while promoting social equality and the law of workers, of course. The constitutional right to insurance is social, since it guarantees citizens social goods through a public system. What modernizes this draft law, which we are called upon to vote on, the provision of social services and access to it, must, ladies and gentlemen, be universal and form a solidarity society. Social security also unites different generations and is a good that continues over time, since resources are transferred from a generation that is working to those who are no longer. In addition, social security makes free public health possible to the citizens of a country. This is therefore a complex issue, which should not be dealt with fragmentally and opportunely, above all. In Greece, social security has developed gradually and is evolving. But this development must be made on the basis of the development of both the society and the technology and the finances of the country. As Edward Morley said, a great positive scientist in 1890: "Evolution is not a dynamic, but a process, not a consistency, but a law". Let us not forget that the Industrial Revolution and mass automated production have been one of the main factors that led to social security. Consequently, social security at its birth is inextricably linked to technology. For the record, I mention that the first organized compulsory social security system was established by Chancellor Bismarck in the 1880s. Western countries as a whole adopted this model in the 20th century as a basic social policy tool. The current draft law is also in this direction, since, for the first time after many years, no pension reduction is foreseen, but increases are envisaged, as the Minister and previous speakers have pointed out. The aim is to restore justice for those who have worked harder and strengthen pension returns to give strong incentives to stay in the insurance system. The new system is based on principles of simplicity, freedom and flexibility. It is fairer, more rewarding and, therefore, much more attractive. The primary sector is being pushed forward. Finally, this main pillar of our country's development and visibility is being dealt with responsibly. With this reform structure, ladies and gentlemen, we are attempting to create the electronic Single Social Security Agency, the greater organisational and administrative integration of our country's insurance system. Electronic ECA puts an end to the pathogens and bad texts of insurers. The digitisation of all social security functions ensures more efficient, more qualitative and faster services to the citizens of the country. He is finally coming to an end to the bureaucracy of the public sector in our country. In full alignment with the recent and earlier decisions of the Council of State, the growth of the economy is encouraged and the disproportionate financial burden which has been borne by the most productive and creative part of the Greek economy and society has been cancelled. There are end-use securities in the current system for calculating the contributions of the free professions. The new insurance system is fully in line with the requirements of the digital age that we order, thus justifying the history of social security. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the digital pension that is dramatically reduced is being introduced - I would say - the time to conclude the procedures for the award of the pension. A free choice of insurance contributions for farmers, self-employed persons, freelance professionals, and income and years of insurance are being introduced. It facilitates the operational design of professionals and encourages the development of their economic activities. For pensioners, the level of remuneration is increased and supplementary pensions continue to be paid. In addition, they are given the opportunity to get back into the production process. Despite the efforts of previous years to take reform measures, many pathogens have remained - and still remain - as is the great unfortunately large tax evasion. Change, ladies and gentlemen, is a one-way road. Let us show by vote the defence of a law society and an insurance system that promotes solidarity, recompense, operational freedom, proportionality, insurance justice, sensitivity, flexibility and consistency, by voting for an insurance bill that will not only rationalise the distortions and shortcomings and injustices of existing law, but will meet the insurance needs of the years and challenges that come for the world of work, for society and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Makrei has the floor now. Immediately afterwards, I will give the floor to the Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, by legislating the most required insurance reform, shows to the Greek society the seriousness with which he is confronting the new beginnings of the country and the new culture that he is advocating for returning to normality. The success of these policies requires changes in perceptions, a constant search for answers to unprecedented and complex economic and social problems and a mission to the can of the inappropriate many inspiring and past assumptions and actions that concern not only the state but also our collective and individual function. The new insurance reform finally lays the foundations and guarantees for society's confidence in the political system. Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the public social security system is at the heart of serious doubts, not only within the country, but globally. In particular, over the last decade, the challenge has become more pronounced, since the economic recession has risen numerously and diversely. Therefore, many of the stereotypes of the past are already under collapse or have collapsed. In the decade that we have already begun to go through, humanity is now faced with at least five critical problems, such as acute demographic ageing, the colossal issue of climate change, the problem of energy reserves, but also their management, the rapid development of innovative technologies, and finally, the guaranteeing and ensuring a satisfactory future for future generations, which is certainly a very difficult objective. These challenging and torture issues require critical changes for the future that will go beyond our past, but since we will have assimilated and learned from the mistakes of our earlier history. Some of these developments are now very visible. Europe has already begun to design and develop strategies and policies in general and holisticly for climate change, the implementation of the Green Agreement between its Member States, the development of skills and competences for the storming implementation of the fourth industrial revolution. At Member State level, however, each attempts to shield and reform it so that it survives within the new trends and geopolitical conditions that are being shaped. Some Member States have shown that they are able to take advantage of the changes in order to limit the adverse effects, but also to benefit positively. It is no coincidence that in the last two months France has been shocked by the adoption of its new policy of insurance, which is characterised by the fundamental reform of the implementation of uniform rules in forty insurance funds. This basic reform, imposed in France because of demographic ageing by the Macron government itself, was imposed on Greece by the institutions ten years ago, forced and confiscated because of the country's bankruptcy. Although it was known since 1958 that the main problem of social security in Greece was the complete inequality of protection, so that the citizens' equality principle has been fully forgotten, as Professor Platon Tinos writes in "Kathemerini", no operational management of the issue took place in all these decades. On the contrary, this inertia worked toxicly and cumulatively. According to the former Minister of Labour and Professor Tasos Giannitsis, the insurance issue reflects a fundamental conflict within a society, fighting and conflicting the distribution of income and GDP produced every year between those involved in its production and those who do not produce, but others have the right to participate in the income generated through the pension rules. We experienced this conflict and paid it very dearly in the past, and we still pay it today because of his negativity and intelligence yesterday. For many leading economists in Greece, the insurance was important as a generic factor in the 2009 crisis. It has had a significant impact on the massive recession, budgetary collapse, unemployment, declining investment, cuts in income and social costs and increased taxation. That is why the figures are insignificant, since the annual public expenditure on its rescue ranged between 120% and 237% of the non-State resources of the insurance system. This toxic regularity is finally coming to overthrow the new insurance bill brought by the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour. They deserve warm congratulations to Mr Brutsi and his colleagues. Because otherwise, the choice of inertia would cause even greater costs and worsening. The new insurance bill, ladies and gentlemen, is characterised by sustainability and realism, as it is the first bill in the history of the country accompanied by a full specific proportional study on the main and secondary pensions and an integrated study of pension adequacy of the Athens University of Economics, while its viability is guaranteed by 2070. In addition, it is modern and architecturally structured, as there is provision for the establishment and establishment of the digital form of the National Social Security Agency, which is part of the Single Utilization and Sports Fund, the so-called EIF. This technical reconstruction of the organisation creates a large scale of economies in the management of the new organisation's human resources, while at the same time leading to a faster pension allocation time. Digital pensions are also established for the first time, a project aimed at facilitating the citizen and minimising the time to complete the administrative procedures required for its award. At the same time, social and security justice, reciprocity, proportionality and operational freedom are being strengthened, and for the first time it is an innovative and rewarding system of free choice of insurance contributions where everyone can freely choose the category of insurance contributions either up or downwards for as long as they wish, depending on their economic potential, for their future pension. At the same time, it is the first insurance bill after twelve years of crisis that has no reduction in pensions. On the contrary, there will be increases and justice will be restored for those who have worked harder, while at the same time strengthening the retireability of pensions. The main objective of this particular reform is not only to resolve the distortions of the past, but mainly the truce, ending the war of the generations. Nowadays, young people who work have to sacrifice much more than the older ones have sacrificed, whether through larger insurance contributions or through new taxes, other charges, or through public spending cuts, and also have the burden of repayment for the future of the unstable debts of the past. The reality of the intergenerational divide must be weakened and made fair. In order to give the impression that the insurance policy will finally be a stable solution, a new social agreement is needed which cannot be achieved without reasonable recognition of mistakes, a collective perception of new choices and yet with a horizon of not two or three years, but a significantly longer length of time. We should give this possibility of implementing and lending time in the new good insurance reform perspective, voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has the floor now, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour, before the National Representation, to recommend the new insurance reform that will change the future of the country, which will affect the country as a whole, the new workers, the future workers, the current pensioners after the debate held in the committees. It's a law that - believe me - will be an incision and came to stay. A law which - as has rightly been said -, after twelve years of age, has no reduction in any pension, only increases, within the framework of the budgetary capacity and the space we have. I want to start the thread from the outset because I believe that in such legislative intervention, such as an insurance law, the most serious, the most important law every government can take on its back and bring to the vote in Parliament, one deserves to unfold the history bucket from the beginning. Our country has been afflicted by decades with old ageing, diseases of an insurance system that had become a mosaic of exceptions and special schemes, and we have paid for it. The country paid for it, the pensioners paid it, the workers paid it, and the country entered a budget difficulty environment for twelve years. There have been difficult adjustments, unjust adjustments. Today, however, after these whole twelve years, realising what the reality is, we have to have an insurance system that is really solidarity of generations and not to eat today's resources at the expense of future generations, we come to cover just this gap. We must have an insurance system - and at the moment we are doing - which is attractive to workers, not repellent, not favour black and uninsured work, but pushed to employment. To see it as a future investment, and that is what we are doing. We must have an insurance policy based on strong fiscal legs and its macroeconomic forecasts should be precisely the ones that will emit confidence in the future for all, young, older, smaller, a confidence that has been lost for our country's insurance system. It must be an insurance law that, in the question that over the last few years has been in, especially from the new generation of our country: "I'm going to retire?", the answer is: "yes, you're going to receive a pension, a proportional and rewarding pension, the one which really belongs and suits you and deserves the basis of his working life." We must have an insurance system that is linked to the other modern European countries. It should not be an exception and a burden of the country's budget, but should come as a budget with the country's GDP and be bound to the average of the other European countries. And that, the insurance system is doing it. That's what we're doing today. That is why I am optimistic, in addition to the objections or objections which have been heard, other misguided, other inappropriate, others are said to be said. I'm sure this law will stay and come to support our country's national economy. It will support the economy itself, development and society. That's our law. This law came to Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, not as an empty shirt. He came to Parliament as he should have come to constitutional matters and as the parliamentary procedure imposes. It came for the first time, I will repeat it because it has its value, accompanied by a proportionate study by the National Analogue Authority. This is one of the big changes of this law. What is the National Accounting Authority? Because a lot of people ask and say what it is that goes with the insurance bill. What is the National Accounting Authority? The National Accounting Authority, ladies and gentlemen, is a powerful independent authority of which, personally, I trusted her before becoming Minister in 2012-2014, in 2012-1014 as Minister, in the four and a half years of SYRIZA, I trusted her and today I continue to have her. It consists of exquisite scientists with very deep economic knowledge, specialized proxies, who are independent of the Ministry of Labour. From the Ministry of Labour, what they took from me was the political direction, what I am asking, what I said before, the political directions for an insurance that is attractive, people trusting him, having long-term sustainability, to be sustainable. Those assumptions, however, made by the National Accounting Authority are assumptions that all developed countries in the world take from Eurostat and the "Ageing Working Group". And it is not negative that some remarks have been made. Positive is that the assumptions used by the National Accounting Authority are very difficult and conservative compared to those that the Ministry of Finance or the Bank of Greece could give, that is, optimistic. They gave very difficult, conservative assumptions, and yet this first text, which was tabled by me in the House at the start of the committees and in the plenary procedure, has three very important elements which are worth repeating, because this is where confidence is based for the future. With difficult assumptions, with these principles and guidelines given by Eurostat and the 'Ageing Working Group', firstly, in the long term the insurance system of our country succeeds in doing this: the Greeks' pension will be tied up and is equivalent to all contributions. This is a great success, very important. Because that is how it shows a complete resolution of the system. The second element is that in the medium to long term the insurance system is coming to the average of European countries. So pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP. What do these two mean? That at last we can talk about a sustainable system, fully qualified with a view to 2070, which everyone can trust and ensure all pensions until then, with these assumptions. It is true that no one can predict the future and what reversals can be made in an economy, in society, on global issues that are not predicted, but on the basis of stable issues - on which scientific studies - approaches are carried out, no one can question it. So for the first time Greek Parliament discusses an insurance bill, an insurance reform that goes on in rails. This is the first intervention to be made by this insurance bill through the analogy study, which, unfortunately, Mr SYRIZA, Mrs Ahtsoglou, you did not bring it as an argument in plenary. SYRIZA argued today - it was not SYRIZA's argument - that he had a proportionate study, that the Katrugalo Law had a proportionate study. And I wonder, did anyone see her? We saw it for the first time - a text in English - after three and a half years being tabled by SYRIZA to the committee of Parliament. It was a text that was also challenged by justice, because all laws, all constitutional decisions - 1889/2019, recently four months ago, and the 1891/2019 - of the Council of State judged the Katrugalu law, in the field of proportionality, unconstitutional, because the law did not have a proportionate study. So, why are we talking? Who are you kidding? How do you come up to this step and you dare continue to deceive the Greek people? You brought a law into the clipboard, quickly, unfair, trapping growth and the economy, which punished productivity, not attractive, which created insecurity and anguish for the future and was finally judged unconstitutional. Chapter 2: What are we doing today? We are trying, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - why you will get answers to the arguments you have put forward - to leave the Katorugalou law in the past, to bring in a law that will create a new environment of security, trust for the future, which will create security, a prospect that will cultivate the insurance conscience and no one will be able to question it in the future through legal procedures. What else are we trying to do? Listen up! We are trying to correct the unconstitutionalities of the Katrugalo Law, to remove them from our insurance law and from the insurance reform. Where was the Katrugalu law unconstitutional? Listen, this is why you play a hideout on the SYRIZA side. They go up to Stepma and they do not dare to tell the truth, because these, of course, are fine letters for society, which they do not know in depth, as we do. The Katrugalou law was therefore unconstitutional in the following points: Firstly, the SYRIZA - Katrugalo Law was considered unconstitutional in not bringing the proportionate study. I said before that our main difference is that we bring a proportionate study. Secondly, it was considered unconstitutional in cutting supplementary pensions, in unfair cuts in supplementary pensions, to EUR 1,300 principal and subsidiary. We are returning this issue and making constitutional intervention, now, in the context of the requirements of the Council of State, and we are coming and becoming fully in line with the decision of justice. Thirdly, the Katorugalou law is unconstitutional at the level of the contributions, at this 20% that you have put, by linking income to taxation, Mr Chakalote, to this criminal, punishing you against the productive forces of the country, the lawyers, doctors, engineers, the self-employed, farmers. This tax connection you made was what punished the world and punished you in the elections. And we are now liberating for the first time, by constitutionalising our intervention, this nightmare and crime to link income to insurance and to convert insurance into tax. I know, it's your obsession with ideological, ideological. What can we do? We're two different worlds. You want to punish creativity, you want to see isotopeically all down. We're different. We want the prosperity of the world, we want it to be rich, to create wealth, we want the world and society to go up, to go well. These three points, therefore, which have been judged unconstitutionally by the Council of State, come to be corrected now. But that's not all. It was another important thing. The Council of State came and said it was unconstitutional - a fourth major intervention by the Council of State - which concerns the replacement rates. In other words, he considered that your system, at structure, principle, philosophy, perception, is beyond unfairness, an equilibrium system that after twenty, twenty-five years, was not at all attractive to anyone and leveled the effort. Four major decisions of the Council of State considered the SYRIZA-Katrugalu law unconstitutional and today, from the Step of Parliament - neither in plenary nor in committee - there were no apologies. And I'll tell you what wasn't said by SYRIZA. I can hear views from all parties from the minor opposition from the Change Movement, the Communist Party, Mera25, the Greek Solution. Everyone says their own and uplifts many times and with excesses for things that are impossible. But the Civic Opposition, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, has a very serious institutional role. I'm turning around a little bit of time. We as a military opposition, when you were talking here about insurance, had positions. We were talking about what we were talking about today. What were we talking about? We said we were against the connection to income and insurance. And we do it, we change it. We said it was counterproductive your system, not attractive. We changed it. We're doing it. We said that the replacement rates - what you did - were criminal, it was wrong, because it was deterrent to be in the labour market. We change it and we do it. We were a strong opposition and our institutional role towards society was except to make our remarks, to say what our position is. And I am asking today, gentlemen of SYRIZA, what is the position of SYRIZA? You've got two streets. You will either vote for the bill or you will be well-intentioned and say, "We want the Katorugalou law." You have no other way. It's either one or the other. You will either vote for the law or you will say, "We are with the law of Katrugalo." Because now, by the end of the process, you will find yourself in front of deadlocks. Tell me, will you vote for the constitutionality that we correct your unconstitutionality? It's a check of the Council of State. Will you vote to increase the replacement coefficients, yes or no? You're not in position. Will you vote for pension increases, yes or no? You're not in position. Will you vote for the increases in supplementary pensions, yes or no? Will you vote for the digital pension, yes or no? You hide and this is called 'political cowardice', 'political atmospheric' or 'I have no positions'. And insurance is not an issue. It's a very serious matter. You're judged every day. What is your position, apart from coming here and making some critical simplifications on the side? Let's see what your reviews are, because for the rest you didn't say anything. For your big, position, what you believe as a party, what is SYRIZA's next day for insurance, zero. Nor are you answering whether you will vote for the increases, nor are you willing to correct the unconstitutionalities of your own law, which you have wronged people and came the Ministry and justice changed them. So what did Mrs. Ahchioglu say just now? I picked up the arguments. Allow me, I welcome the argument. But when these are funny, unhappily and with the perspective I am saying, they are confusing, embarrassing and they are a product of alchemy, I am obliged to correct them. And most importantly, when the Qualified Opposition says it. So yesterday, during the committee, SYRIZA's invocation and argument that the 2020 budget has less than 206 million pension expenditure. Question: Is it true? Of course it's true. He's in the budget. We never lie. But I quoted the past. In 2015, on SYRIZA, 96 million smaller pension expenditure, while in 2016 it was 206 million. In 2017, pension expenditure was less than 744 million. In 2018 we had 343 million smaller pension expenditure and in 2019 we had 416 million reduced pension expenditure. Aren't you saying that, Mrs. Ahchioglu? This reduction in pension costs you did, what is it? But I heard the incredible today. Here's what Mrs. Ahchioglu said. It's interesting. He came to the House today and did not use the same argument. He said that if he accepts that they made cuts, that pension expenditure was reduced, but at the same time we should not read the budget, we should read the accounts. And it comes up and says that the accounting figures are different from the past and it wants to compare us with the current budget figures. So I tell you, Mrs Ahtsioglu - and you know that - that of course the 2020 accounting figures will also be different from the EUR 206 million reduction. Of course it will be because pension increases will be added! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Oh, my God! Who are you addressing? Are you kidding the world? Because these are difficult issues to do with the economy, are you directly mocking the world? And I would like to inform you about the question of the proportionality principle, because it is of the value that pension spending as an absolute figure will rise over the next few years, especially after 2023. Pension costs will rise as an absolute figure. It will, however, rise at less speed than the country's GDP will rise, and that is exactly what the curve is showing downwards in the rate of pension expenditure on GDP. That is the secret that we are aligning with the average European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, this law of insurance in its first chapter comes and restores the injustices of the Katrugalo law. It gives the subsidiary an increase of EUR 1.300, hundreds of thousands of people will take back the retrospective pensions from October 1, 2019, will all be given one-off together with the increases and the main pensions and subsidiary, once the entire system has been recalculated, because it must be restarted throughout the new e-FTA created. Secondly, there will be increases in basic pensions - basic pensions, of course! - which are now in line with the decision of the Council of State, with 50% plus 1 requested by the Council of State, we now come to give increases in the main pensions with thirty years and one day above. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me a little, because hypocrisy and alchemy are not perfect. Be careful, Mrs Ahtsioglou, in her position she says 'but with 3,500 euros will someone get in forty years 252 euros? Is that what you're saying? Who has 3,500 euros?’ Of course I never argued or claimed that it is easy to get a pension salary of EUR 3,500. It is, however, within examples. But examples don't see it all. You've got what you want to create an impression. You avoided seeing the substance. So I read: 'In the course of 40 years, EUR 700, a 50-euro pension pension more per month with the new law. With 800 euros pension 58 euros above. With a 1,000 euros pension of more than 72 euros. With EUR 1500 a pension of EUR 108 more per month.’ And that is about the new generations of our country, the workers. Not to go to forty-two years or thirty-nine. I am tabling the table, before the National Representation, of the 30-year increase and a day longer, which changes the country's future, especially for young workers. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] SYRIZA's criticism of pension cuts. Watch out, the whole bill and it focuses on three pension cuts, SYRIZA. It says: 'Twelfthly-third pension you have cut it'. You don't answer when did you bring her the thirteenth pension? Do You Remember? On the eve of the poll. How much is the height of the thirteenth pension, gentlemen of SYRIZA? It's 2.3 billion euros. Is that what you gave? What are you baptisms for? Did you baptize one-third of an expense of a thirteenth pension? You directly fooled the world then and you keep making fun of it. You gave it a election eve. We have, of course, voted for it. Any social measure we are voting on. This is the New Democracy. We had denounced it, however, as an election allowance, as an allowance for deception and manipulation of pensioners, and that is why they punished you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u158	Did you vote for the deception?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u159	So you were punished by their vote because you deceived them. Today you say the thirteenth pension never existed with the substance and type of the thirteenth pension. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou say that the replacement coefficients are being reduced after forty years. Be careful of hypocrisy. And to the forty that the Council of State considered the Katrugalo law unconstitutional, talk. We took it to 50 and one. And be careful now, because they don't even read and it's a pity, sorry for the expression, the balance between old law and new law comes in forty-five years. Forty-five years the previous law is balanced with the new law despite the reduction in the replacement rates after the forty-two years that we are bringing. Look at the hypocritical, though. At the same time, he said, "But where will we find people today in this labour market, in the jungle working with thirty years of work, Mr Brutsi, who will increase?" At one time she criticised for the forty-five years and on the other for the thirty years. This is SYRIZA's criticism, I'm mocking you in the face. That's really SYRIZA. And the third criticism is the so-called cut in retirement pension for retired workers. Do you know what's happened? I was hosted twice by "AGE" on a front page, that New Democracy restores to 70% the pensioners who want to work. Twice! He talked about 'golden grandparents'. What were we talking about? We believe that our country's pensioners are a very experienced, very useful, very strong social group that can offer many more. We want them to work. But nowhere in the world - listen to this - there are no pensioners - particularly in my study in Europe - who receive 100% of his pension and work. Everywhere there are cuts for budgetary, justice and we do the same: we cut 40%, the extermination and insulting, the punishment, the Katrugalo - SYRIZA for pensioners, and we give 70% of the pension and the right to be at work. Of course, it is accompanied by very strict measures, if you are an illegal pensioner. The penalty is 12 monthly pension wages if you are arrested uninsured pensioners and you work. That's the truth. Today I hear the criticism that some pensioners - by my own law - were getting 100% of their pensions and working. Yes, my law is and I want to change it, because then the budgetary conditions were different. Then the pensioners were in another environment. Today, however, an insurance system must have the same rules for everyone, not two speeds. That is why we keep the system, but we give the pensioners, who received 100% of their pension, the opportunity to maintain it. We've been doing this for two years. They are enough to align themselves with others for the sake of justice - 70% - and prepare their family planning without harming them without surprise. These were SYRIZA's reviews. Throughout this bill was SYRIZA's criticism and that is why he said no, but did not say the critical questions: what is SYRIZA's position? Does SYRIZA have a seat? Will he vote for the law or does he want the law of Katrugalu? By the end of the procedure, they will have to reply. The second big chapter, ladies and gentlemen, we are not pretending or lying. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for all four and a half years of the opposition, and I with the MP's portfolio in insurance, the part of the liberals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, farmers, self-employed, we have a position: we consider it unfair and criminal to link the income and the conversion of insurance to tax. Is there anyone in the Greek society who says that the New Democracy didn't say that? We have said so, and today absolutely consistently we are changing it. That is why the New Democracy is a responsible party. That's why New Democracy can be trusted over time. And what do we do? We're doing something innovative. We are introducing a system which, for the first time, abolishes classes - no longer classes - which were linked to the years worked by someone and the years worked, the more insurance contribution he asked for. There goes that environment. Secondly, we dismantle the Katorugalo - SYRIZA law that linked this punishment that turned insurance into taxation and introduce a simple, flexible and free system, which enables at the beginning of each year to choose for one year one of the seven categories, freely, one that one wants. Is there a more innovative system, more free, which also fits the idiosyncrasy of Greece? We're giving seven categories of freedom. They are deducted from the operator's accounting costs, they are decoupled from the minimum wage, because if the minimum wage is raised it will be assimilated to the Katrugalos - SYRIZA Act and the increase in contribution. So all this stays in the past. So let's go with this new, free, flexible, simple system to leave, to unload the new e-FOD from the great administrative and bureaucratic burden. Free everyone chooses what pension they want to get and what they can pay at the beginning of each year and this is the great intersection and the great freedom. In fact, for two hundred thousand people of free professionals and employees we are doing the other great intervention: we are calling for a contribution there too. Just a contribution everywhere! Even if you're a freelance and self-employed person, a contribution, even if you're a freelance and employed person, a contribution. These are liberal policies in favour of society, which leave the country's creative and productive forces free to create and not think that, behind him, there is a system that hunts daily tax, insurance, to take away its sweat and the wealth it creates. This can lead to growth in Greece. So our children can stay here in Greece and create. These are our answers. Of course, I am omissioning the issues relating to young people. We give young people the opportunity for up to five years - the free professionals - freely, with a low contribution being able to enter the production process and not ask for the money back, as the Katrugalos Act did - SYRIZA. We give the five years to the children who want to do their own business with a also low contribution and not get the money back. But here, wrongly, the Katrugalu law didn't provide anything for this charge. And we keep farmers on the unavoidable with a low category, but we give them the possibility - if they want - to go higher to get a higher pension. These are structural and structural changes. These are reforms that will change our country's environment in favour of development. And the question is: will SYRIZA vote for this or will he not vote for it? Because, if he does not actually vote, it means that he accepts to remain in the unconstitutionality of a concept - the specific provisions were unconstitutional - and the latter closes the eye and says that: 'I, I, say we have to return to the Katrugalo law'. These are our differences. You must answer, gentlemen of SYRIZA, until the end of the procedure. You're obligated. You are a Qualified Opposition. I address you because you have a particular institutional burden. Your role as a Qualified Opposition requires that you have a position rather than throwing paper war and words of impression. As far as the issue of contributions is concerned, SYRIZA's criticism has been heard: 'Growth the contributions'. How much? From 185 to 210. What's the truth? Yes, there is indeed an increase in contributions, but it does not go alone. It is accompanied by the tax reform that we brought in this month in December, this government of Mr Mitsotakis. It has reduced the tax rate from 22% to 9%, which means EUR 1,300 in the free trader's pocket to EUR 10,000 at the same time as having a charge of EUR 410. That means 900 euros in his pocket at the end of the year. I read, because I will submit this to the Minutes for information. He has done a series of examples of the Ministry of Labour, examples that give the previous situation and the new situation. Indicatively: With 10,000 euros with the law of SYRIZA and with our own, the new, benefiting free professional self-employed is 770 euros a year. With 12,000 euros he is benefiting by 1,174 euros. With EUR 7,800 he is benefiting by EUR 364 a year. With 14,000 euros he is benefiting by 1,556 euros a year. With EUR 15 000 he is benefiting by EUR 1,715 a year. With 19,000 he is benefiting by 2,342 euros a year. With 20,000 he is benefiting 2,501 euros a year. With 23,000 he is benefiting by 2,950 euros a year. This is, gentlemen of SYRIZA, an income that will strengthen the free professional, the self-employed, the one who fights every day out to fight, create wealth for his family, for society, to fight every day. I'm taking the examples as well, and I might change your mind by the end of the process. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I live in the third, which is also important. You know, I've always been trying - because I believe at the beginning of political morality and my political education and formation is, so I've learned - the term of political magnanimity - and so I have to pay him back. In 2012, I inherited from this Step, in the programming statements, Loverdos - Koutromanis from the previous period that they were Ministers. Then I said I inherited very positive things. To whom I disagreed, I drowned them inside of me. My role as Minister was to get ahead of the country, what I can find and fix to do better. I've shown the good news. I honored what I inherited. For four and a half years SYRIZA was only critical of yesterday, an innocent critic, populist, demagogic. The first pages that were unravelling up here were for the past, never for the future. So let me remind you of what happened in 2015, because I want to get into the heart of a problem called "extended pensions", "Lavinth of Efaka", "haust in the procedures of the largest public institution we have". What has happened, ladies and gentlemen? I'm saying exactly the same words I was saying back then. The problem of the loose ends in this large public body and body called EVA today called e - EVA, National Social Security Agency, is not solved with human resources, nor can it be solved. And it can't be solved because it's humane impossible, because it's thousands of loose ends. But you heard me criticise SYRIZA. The criticism was that at regular intervals I saw the prior political leadership of the Ministry saying "they are done, there are no time-limits". When I challenged SYRIZA with questions, he didn't answer. Insulting parliamentary procedures. He never answered. And when I was here as Minister I asked SYRIZA to ask me a question about the loose ends, he didn't. Two parties did. The New Democracy and the Change Movement. The answer came: one million fifty-eight thousand outstanding cases, recalculations, one single one. This whole package of major pensions, subsidiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u160	Minister, forgive me. How much longer will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Madam President. This legislative initiative is very important and it is worth saying two things more. Thank you for your tolerance. It is therefore not dealt with with human resources and existing situations. They can't handle it. This is why we had prepared since 2014, after "HLIOS", for the first time mapped the insurance, our intervention with the historical record of the insurance history of all Greeks by the "ATLAS". When I delivered this file in 2015, it was returned to me. And the answer was "we don't want the pensions to get them machined. We want people to get them out. And they lost four and a half years. What we're trying now from 1-1-2017 you had the opportunity to do it yourself and you lost it. And you didn't. And now the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis comes, we come to resolve this problem, a pathogen of decades with digital e - FYROM. We'll digitize the whole system. And that's now registered in the bill. We are trying on 1 June 2020 - the exercise is difficult - to get the first digital pensions. You understand that it will change the future of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I criticised. I didn't want in such a bill, but everything has their limits. The retiring government cannot, today's Census to become an honourer of an issue that has collapsed the country, undermined it in the crucial part of the insurance company, punished the pensioner, punished the workers, created insecurity and finally created an anti-constitutional law that we are called upon to correct. And that's what we're doing. So I call on you in this context to join forces, to see the future with optimism and to vote for this social security reform, which will certainly leave a positive footprint for all of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting they have been informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 1st New Ionian Magnesia High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. How long, colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u163	I'd like three minutes, but because the Minister spoke twice a year, five minutes. But as an answer. It's not my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u164	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. I shall not repeat Mr Brutsi's words 'unbelievable, relentless and uncomfortable' and all that we have said. I will simply say to him congratulations on the modest, modest and modest way in which his bill was presented as a cut-off, as the first thing that changes the data. I am nervous that Eleftherios Venizelos from his grave will consider his own reform boldness to be reduced or that Papanoutsos now in front of Mr Brutsis will be seen as a footnote in the history of reforms in that country. How can Mr. Brutsi invoke that? He may invoke these things and not answer questions that our rapporteur has put because he knows he has the channels with him. Because otherwise he couldn't get away. I'll explain why. If we had serious channels and a serious debate, everyone would know that when you say that the Council of State said that there is an unconstitutional link between income and contributions, we would have the plan here, the answer which quite clearly says that the joint legislator is free to count on this basis, which bears witness to income efficiency, such as income earned. I'll submit it to the Minutes. It says it very clearly. No one will say tomorrow. But you lied that this is what the Council of State said. That is, we cannot connect income to contributions. You guys gonna talk about unconstitutionality? So, all those retired people running to retroactively retrospect what law they're applying for? Yours. I mean, you're a champion of unconstitutionality regarding the pension system. I have here what you have tabled and discussed with the European Union. It says: Ageing Projects Exercise 2008. Update 2019. Update. What was updated if there was not such a study on the government of SYRIZA? You know that. That's what worries me. That's what upsets me. It's not that you don't know that. It is not that you did not know that there was this study, that it had been discussed, that it was part of the status pack, that the Commission had given its opinion. What did the Commission give its opinion on? But you don't care why we won't see this anywhere else while you know the reality. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. In almost any question you asked, you did not answer, because you preferred a Venizelic, Papuaux talk about how great you are and how great the reform is. Did you answer that in the lower class is nine out of ten pensioners and will they see a reduction? They won't see a drop of nine in ten? Did we see an answer to that? You said that Mrs Ahtsioglou cannot, because she is 'awkward, awkward, unreliable', compare what expenditure was incurred in 2019 with what would be done in 2020. But can Mrs Ahtsoglou read the State General Accounting Office, which says your law is fiscally neutral? What does budgetaryly mean neutral? It means that the minus 100 you have must be less than 200. That means fiscal neutrality. You say there's no reason to connect income to contributions. Really? Are you serious about that? In other words, you say by a word there can be no redistribution of this system. Where did you get that from? From an economic theory? Of course, there are neoliberal economists who are also saying about taxation being a flat rate. To be a tax rate for everyone, that is. Why does the insurance system make any difference? Where do you build it that what the tax constitution says does not say about the contributions? And because you have a passive relationship with the Constitution, you can't answer the Constitution and answer the substance. What is the economic argument that someone who takes seventy thousand euros should make the same contributions as someone who takes thirty thousand euros? You didn't answer none of this. You have not replied that the costs are less. You've filed a clue about someone insured, whether they'll get more or less than Mrs. Ahtsioglu said. But the main thing is, what about the average pension in the years to come? Is it increasing? Is it decreasing? Isn't that the bottom line that the British would say? What's the Bottom line? Where's the main thing? In your own studies, the average pension in the years to come is reduced. We are neither awkward nor awkward, nor unreliable. We had to manage a memorandum, after the bankruptcy you brought us the two parties, after the bankruptcy we made this memorandum, we did the best we had to do within the memorandum and after the memorandum we made a change, a turn. You should have spoken to the Members who were not Members before, because these Members and you know exactly what you signed with the provision for the thirteenth pension. It's a shame to read it over and over and you to whistle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u167	Thirty seconds. In other words, you didn't know what you signed, you haven't heard Voridis, you haven't heard anyone say that "our word contract and what we voted on will keep up" and go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u168	Thirty-five minutes was spoken by the Minister, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Comrade, excuse me. May I? I run the seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u170	Be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u171	Please very much. I'm absolutely fair. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u172	So, you know what you voted for, read again what you voted for. Mrs Ahchioglu has read it to you three times. Don't try to say you didn't vote and don't say your people went out on the channels before the elections and said what we voted on is true. Know that we also have perspectives outside of the Memorandum, because we took the country out of the Memorandum and our vision has the redistribution to the core of our policy. You continue with a policy that redistributes itself or is a matter of secondary importance, and you will soon see and I will explain it in my basic speech, because that leads to a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u174	Minister, I am very sad that I am listening to your Members, not you, to repeat what you have given them and not everything is accurate. The first thing I would like to ask you to do is to withdraw what you said is that it is the first legal insurance plan accompanied by a proportionate study. You may be right about SYRIZA and your criticism toward them is correct. Besides, the Council of State paid them back. You, however, know well, because you were here, that L.3863 was based on a proportionate study that had been submitted at the time and in 2011 confirmed the calculations of the proportional study with a new study, which was of an international character and which was approved by the Eurogroup. Don't make them say things especially the newly elected people who aren't true and you know their truth. Secondly, I do not like competition with SYRIZA at all who has more unconstitutionalism. What's that? It's new. Then I'm the winner because my law didn't even have one unconstitutionality. I'm so glad, how nice! The Scientific Service of the House makes three remarks. I hope he's not right. You saw that no party objected to you this morning. However, the remarks were inconsistent. Once again, see some provisions, as they say to you, because one of them - I leave the others, authorizations, etc. - refer to incomplete element of the proportional study. Arrangement based on an incomplete element of the proportional study. Restraint is a friend, it helps. To say that a number of SYRIZA provisions have been considered unconstitutional, you are right. But to say that you are the "protector" of constitutionalism, I wish you any provisions that you are predicted not to be judged unconstitutional, but three points are made by the Department of Scientific Studies of the Parliament. Secondly, because this is obviously what you have told them, it is the so-called 'benefits' in relation to the Katorugalou law. You do well to point that out. However, I would like to say to you and to your Members that you have a better adjustment for the replacement, you have relatively better impairments, as from 18% produced by their own replacement, you take it to 15%. You have an advantage here. But saying that a pensioner with a pensionable salary of EUR 1,000 and twenty-five years of work wins by your law of EUR 20 is not a reform. It is a better and fairer regulation, but it is not reform. Then you also legalize us to tell you - I will do this tomorrow - pension earnings with pensionable earnings, how far behind you are from L.3863/2010 that the PASOK on my own initiative and Mr. Koutromanis had established. Then we did not enact any laws that were passed on to the media, like yours. Then we passed laws and were chasing us everywhere because demagogues, including New Democracy, told the world that the draft law of insurance and labour is hard and much more. New Democracy was the leading in the creation of the commemorative front. So, if you are fair, you should say how you compare yourself to the Katorugalou law and how you compare to the law of mine and Mr Kutrumani, which you are not saying. I have a question for you, beyond the question I asked you this morning. It's the second time you don't answer me, it's the second meeting you don't answer me and we're trying with my colleague, rapporteur of the Change Movement to find the answer. We don't care what you say, we care what we say in the world called for by the contributions paid, the criminal error of the Katrugalo law not to be repeated. I'm telling you what arrangement you're removing it? Because together we opposed it and you didn't tell me. You're telling me you've done away with it. We're trying to locate the arrangement ourselves. You also asked your partners, but you don't give an answer to us. In my speech tomorrow I will say where we come from, I and my colleague, since you are not answering us, and that is a sign of negative. I'm pointing it out. My question, and with it, is that you wanted to make a reform, why didn't you bring back Law 3863 without the transitional periods? The crime that the two colleagues, Skourlets and the Army have committed, was that a law that at the time ensured the best sizes of replacement, both by the Katorugalos law and by yours, stopped him at the time he went to be implemented. Why didn't you bring him back? The mechanisms of the replacement it had introduced were very good. Of course we and you and the later, as you quite rightly said, Katrugalos, who brought the proportionate study, have based on some elements and certain specifications. When we compiled data lists, we had the greatest crisis in Greece since World War II and the Civil War. Based on that data, we tried. You guys are better off today. I know that every proportionate study every five years needs adjustments and, of course, the previous government has made them, you will too. But my question is at the heart of the problem. After you wanted to reform and not block the anti-constitutionalities of the Katrugalo Law, why didn't you make a new insurance effort? Because this is very difficult, I understand, and I would say this to you and ask you why not reinstate Mr.3863 without transitional provisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. I cannot take part in this amazing debate, because with very great piety and seriousness we are taking part in this bill and we are, like all of us, many hours here. But it was a great challenge for me and for us to participate in this anti-constitutional competition among the parties that destroyed the country. I was caused by the position of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who spoke of unconstitutionalism, to go to New Democracy. Remind some numbers: 1880, 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891/2019. All of these, Madam President, are decisions of the plenary session of the Council of State anti-constitutional provisions of the Katrugalo Law. In other words, we have served in an attempt to demonstrate who has most or fewer anti-constitutional provisions and are proud of it. They're fighting the two parties, and Mr. Loverdos has taken part to say the PASOK is the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u177	Don't make fun of that. On evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u178	I'm not making fun of anything. I know, Mr Loverdo, that the PASOK, the New Democracy and SYRIZA, you three who are now talking about insurance and one who blames the other for who is less or more unconstitutional, are the parties that have done all these forty-five years and have bankrupt the country. How is that possible? And you're fighting today about who's done the least. But you are now saying that you are the best - SYRIZA is better than New Democracy, New Democracy is better than SYRIZA, the Loverdo PASOK is better - you all contributed to the country's bankruptcy. And I'm asking: In this communication show you set up every time here, why do you only care about your party clientele, get away with the world, the retired, the poor and the poor girl who hears us out, the people who get the 400 and the 500 euros? Mr. Amyras said he'd get 48 euros more. We are respecting the EUR 48, but it is not even to enthusiasm that the pensioners who have forty, forty and forty-five years given their soul and their contagion to that state to have a pension of EUR 400, 500 and 600 now to be serious. You will allow us, in order to close this, because we are a party with great consistency, but also an incredible blockade from the channels, Mr Chakaloto, you will not speak of channels. You won't be talking about serious or unharmed channels, because while you were a government, the channels were good to savage you from morning to night. And I'm not just talking about state television, I'm talking about a lot of private. From morning to night, Mr. Eleison Tsipras, and what good SYRIZA does. And now that they have changed, Mr Tsakaloto, those who do the same thing you have done and control the channels and savour the channels all day long. But what you did, they do. And you're told by some people who are excluded from all channels. Someone tells you, Mr. Chakaloto, who has been a private television station official for twenty-six years. I'm a journalist. Let me know very well what is going on. What you did, that's what they do to you. We were, anyway, and we're closed. We have the people with us, we have our voice in the Greek Parliament and we go with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Raptis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u180	I am surprised that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has not read the judicial decisions, because if he had read them - specifically on 1890/2019 - he would see that the Katrugalou law was cancelled, among other things, because it did not contain a proportionate study by the National Accounting Authority. I assume that if it contained such a study, firstly, this study would have been submitted to the House, which, at least as far as I know, had not been tabled in the resolution of the Katrugalo Law, and perhaps that is why the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations has brought it to the committee of the House and, of course, in English. And, of course, it seems to me that the Parliamentary spokesman for the Vice-President is speaking while he has forgotten that they are the same ones who have made cuts in both the main and the supplementary pensions under this Katorugalou law, which came out unconstitutional, are the same ones who dismantled the ESS of the low-retired. And now he has come to complain with crocodile tears about the abolition of the so-called thirteenth pension, because, as has already been said, but of course the Greek citizens are aware of it, this pension should account for a total of EUR 2.3 billion and not of 900 million, which pre-electionally and pre-electionally, little time before the elections, the SYRIZA government voted precisely to unwritten votes. So if it were a piece of legislation which would also apply in the coming years, that is, if there were a budgetary possibility in the state, it is clear that the New Democracy and all the governments that would come after it would give it to the state. The fact is that with today's figures what someone could say is that it was only for what I said. And if you want me to tell you why the New Democracy voted for it, it is obvious that the New Democracy voted for it because, after you decided to give it, it could not, of course, deny support to these weak fellow human beings, because it was not for everyone, and it was not for everyone, and it was not for the whole of their pensions. But that, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u181	I never said so, nor Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u182	Don't interrupt me. This would certainly be within the framework of that moment, because there was no, and you knew, such a financial area. What did the New Democracy do to support our weak fellow citizens? Already since 2013, he voted for the institution of the minimum guaranteed income, which started and applied it. You just rename it in order to show that you support it. You gave him another name: Social income of solidarity. It was our arrangement. Of course, this is what the present government has done to establish it as a constitutional regulation in the new constitution of the country, so as to guarantee that these fellow citizens will indeed have a support. However, it has nothing to do with this question of supporting the weaker people in the so-called and euphemistically 'the thirteenth pension' to which you refer. It has been made clear here that all this has been tabled and supported by you in advance. What this law does, and this is its great success, is that it only gives rises. It gives rise to the increases you illegally cut both on supplementary pensions and on the main pensions of those insured who have more than thirty years of working life. We support these insured people with this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. I won't talk for more than a minute. I just wanted to say that for us at Mera25 it is at least challenging here, that is, in the Greek Parliament, in fact in the presence of the Greek people, three parties which, as governments, have implemented memorials, have been granulating so long, eating our time, I dare say, which one of them has benefited the most. I do not think it is necessary to recall that these memos have led to seven hundred thousands of young people leaving Greece, that we have lost 26% -27% of our GDP, when Syria, by fighting five years, has lost below 20% of GDP. So there have been wars in the country. I do not need to talk about the two and a half million unemployed who are now trying to convince us that they have become a million, but they have not been, the elastic jobs are the ones that hide them. I don't need to talk about everything everyone knows in all the neighborhoods. I will be content to say, and I will close with that, that it would, in our view, be wiser politically and more modestly human if these three parties were consuming at least to beat up at least who has been harming this place in the last ten years, a debate that we consider to have had some object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. He has asked for a small intervention by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will be very brief, Madam President. I will respond to four topics that I consider needing response from SYRIZA and the Change Movement. I have heard Mr Tsakalotos saying that the State Accounting Office says that the intervention by means of the insurance is carried out in a financially neutral manner. What does Mr. Chakaloto say? It says that in this way these increases and the retrospectives you say you will give from 1-10 will not exist because there is no money. That's what Mr. Chakalotos says. What is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? What Mr Tsakalotos avoids saying, whether intentionally or because he does not know it - I do not want to believe the second - is that within the 2020 budget there is a figure of 0.5% of GDP, a billion euro, which will come to cover whatever pension need exists. This is what Mr Tsakalotos hides, an amount of 0.5% that will always accompany the insurance system by 2070. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u187	In the institutions you said this was for the S.H.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u188	Secondly, Mr Chakalotos questioned what I said about the S.H.E.'s decision. that the connection to the income... - the rest for brief reasons, I'm over it. Summary of the S.H.I.E.L.D. I read: Decision 1880 and Decision 1888/19: ‘Institutional placement in the insurance of employees and self-employed persons, i.e. categories with substantially different conditions of employment and income production in uniform rules for contributions and benefits’. That is what the Council of State decided. The same way of dealing with employees and self-employed persons was considered unconstitutional. That is exactly what I said, Mr Tsakaloto, and you are still mocking the world in public. Mr Loverdos, I regret to say that I served L.3863, would actually be applied from 1-1-2015. I answer directly. There was no proportionate study by Law 3863, a technical bulletin. The reality is that the first time in the history of the country is this proportionate study that accompanies this bill. Secondly, Law 3863 would apply from 1-1-2015 indeed, we had measured its fiscal strength. Unfortunately, the collapse of the country's GDP due to the takeover of responsibility by SYRIZA changed all the financial data and SYRIZA signed a law that had but now features. That's the truth with SYRIZA's responsibility. Thirdly, you insist on something. I did not want to answer you because I did not want to apologise for an issue which is self-evident and which is the second time that the Change Movement is making such a mistake. The first mistake was made by the Change Movement when your representative came out publicly on channels - I say as a matter of urgency now - and he said that the pension calculations made by Brutsis and New Democracy are wrong, all pensions are reduced by 15% to 20%, because fourteen pensions are not counted, but twelve. So he said this, Mr. Great, who also represents you in the Change Movement and was a total error, he caused confusion, panic. Turns out it was wrong. So now, Mr Loverdos, I do not want to correct you, I want to inform you. The examples I have put forward and the whole logic governing this insurance is that the cost of insurance contributions is deductible from income, it is tax law, it is the article of Katrugalos in 39, which was abolished in full by Article 35, so it is disconnected, there is no connection to income.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u189	I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u190	I didn't mean to tell you, but you're a legalist, a constitutionalist, but you're not supposed to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u191	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Loverdo, you know the procedure. Let me finish first, Mr. Minister, and I'll give you right after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u193	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u194	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u195	It says that the change in full in Article 39 leads to the conclusion that this arrangement is being abolished. Is that your answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u196	And it changed with Article 35 of the new law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u197	In other words, there is nowhere to be included in the insurance legislation in question. Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u198	From 1-1-20.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u199	That is to say, once this has been adopted, it is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the list again. Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u201	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has told us before that it is a party that believes in redistribution. What redistribution, however, did not explain to us, because the redistribution they sought to make against self-employed and free trade was a robbery redistribution. Of course, he showed to all his majesty the spirit that runs upon them, a spirit that is fully in the face of entrepreneurship and not just in the great and even small-sized ones. I believe that there is no left-hand approach to the economy. The left approach to the economy in one way or another will bring to the end workers pretending to work and employers, the state pretending to pay them. We have lived through this, and we have no reason to relive it in this country. Fortunately, we did not live in this country. Unless the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman believes that we can go to a socialisation of the means of production. We also hear this from a side of the House, of course I think it is a good thing but a deep night. The solution is a liberal approach to the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized business must be supported. Of course, if you would allow me, Madam President - I am sure you will not allow me, so the question I shall be asking you in theory - would I ask all the Members of the Staff Committee how many of them are freelance professionals, how many self-employed and how many farmers? I think they'll be less than 1%. Say 2%, say 3%? It makes perfect sense, therefore, to see the issues of the economy in a certain way. If you haven't put the key in the morning in an office and don't know if you're gonna pay the electricity, the rent, and how you're gonna pay the employee, you can't hurt small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And obviously the same goes for the cape, for the story, as I have said. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the Greek state in insurance has shown no credibility over time, which is why we have reached this point. Also, there were periods when there were people who retired at thirty - five and forty - five and may not have been the builder, perhaps sixty - seven or ever. Of course this side shouldn't move the finger today. They have huge responsibilities for what has happened in the country over the last decade. But in order to be credible as a state towards all those who are waiting for retirement, there must be a planning. Well, there's a programming, there's a proportionate study. It was demonstrated from the debate last year that there has been no proportionate study so far. Many outside Members ask us what is going to happen with our pensions, a million pensions that have not yet been processed, what is going to happen with that? We're giving it a solution. It provides a solution for the Ministry through electronic editor and many of the articles of the bill relate to e-commerce. I don't have to say, people have spoken. The core of liberalism, the core of the way we think about it is yes, must the man who produces continue to have an incentive to produce his own, not through the reproduction of his own, from production to redistribution. It's a huge difference of philosophy. Yeah, that's the core of liberalism, that's the core of all that you're fighting for. We are now coming to work with the incentives. And this is our core core. Yes, I wish the world were healthy and working and not going to retire forty, forty-five or fifty or sixty. To have incentives, it must have an increased pension, a basic principle, and this one must also be ours. That is why, because we want young workers, young people entering work to want to be freelance and self-employed, to support the private sector and not to have eyes in the public sector, and that is why we are making it easier through the insurance contributions in this direction. I've seen the reasoned dismissal. I was attacked. I'll say again, no one hires if he needs a comedian while he decides to fire. You have to understand that. Justified dismissal was a reason for increasing unemployment rather than protecting it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have cut off the ESS. This must gradually come back in some way. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to force the government, in any way, this little low pensioner to support him. He is this low pensioner, for whom your President and former Prime Minister had said that after seventy there won't be many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Lazarides has the floor from New Democracy and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many, many, more, the essence of one. Insurance has repeatedly been a hypocritical settlement of unrealistic assumptions, which relate to the fate of a large proportion of the population, which deserves the fairest of the arrangements. There has been a field of opportunistic policy of management, which leaves the rules of pragmatism and logic in permanent repatriation. It has been the subject of ideological and inevitably unreserved and irresponsible declarations of a programming nature for the future of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the question which we have the responsibility of answering sincerely as a political staff in the country is not simply whether we are increasing or reducing pensions. The question we have to answer at last is whether and since we are prepared to stop living with the illusions that the myths have produced for years around our insurance system and finally adapt to the reality of today's situation. And we here today, with the present draft law of the Government and of the Minister of Labour, Mr Yiannis Vroutsi, are doing just that, we are making sure that from now on every Greek and every Greek worker can enjoy social and security at the same time. Today is the day that a political force at last can clearly describe the insurance future of the workers of the country and put an end to the anxiety of those who are wondering if they will eventually be retired. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, in addition to still fulfilling an election commitment, comes to present together with her interest in the present and future of the workers and the most reliable and documented insurance proposal that has ever been tabled, a proposal that does not hide the issue under the carpet. For the first time in the history of the insurance system, an insurance bill is accompanied by a full analogy study of main and supplementary pensions, confirming the viability of the scheme by 2070, as well as a specific study by the Athens University for the adequacy of pensions. At the same time, it respects the national commitments that our country has, since pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP must be converged after 2030 with the average European countries, a proposal that is removed from the conditions of entrepreneurship to date. On the contrary, it provides incentives for its development. The majority of one and a half million free professionals and self-employed people who have paid the marble have now benefited from the combination of insurance and taxation. It is a proposal that gives breath of freedom to the market. The free choice of insurance contributions, where everyone can freely choose the category of insurance contributions, either up or down, for as long as he wishes, depending on the financial capacity and on the future pension, is now conquered. It is a proposal that proves that the digital pension agency can become anthropocentric, putting an end to the suffering of citizens, but also - not to hide behind our finger - in the timeless transaction for something that is self-evident between citizens and politicians. We thus restore delays to over a million outstanding basic and supplementary pensions and one inherited by SYRIZA. It is a proposal that restores justice and will enable me, Minister, to visit the farmers in the Kavala basin and to tell them that for the first time in the modern history of the country, a Member may bring a good handwriting about the pensions of his fellow citizens. I will tell them that they are now treated with appropriate sensitivity and responsibility, as they are part of a specific favourable and protective framework of reduced insurance contributions. I will tell them that this law gives them the right to a decent living, even with the choice of the lower scale of contributions that they now have the right to enter. I'll tell them that pension doesn't necessarily mean retiring. With the new insurance bill, retired farmers, who want to continue working, will have no reduction in their pensions, provided, of course, they continue to offer their services in the agricultural sector, which further stimulates the productive reconstruction of the sector. I will tell them that this will be done immediately, as the January contributions of the free professionals, self-employed and farmers will be calculated and paid with the new system of contributions. Already e-Ephka is preparing the relevant notices that will be sent after the law was passed. And that is why I want to congratulate the Minister and of course his colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that on the market, as is being discussed in the cafeterias in the Kavala Orphan. With this insurance system and combined with tax evasion, the state stops the state from being a partner of the farmer and the free trader. Instead, he finally starts to make his support and lets him do what he knows best, that is, his work. This is precisely the attitude that differentiates this draft law from the previous conception, which not only opened up roads, but instead increased the deadlocks, burdened development and targeted the most productive and dynamic strata of the middle class, through a real tax policy, dismantling the last growth enclaves of Greek society. Of course, it is no coincidence that this effort was founded fundamentally unconstitutional, but, above all, it was condemned in the consciousness of the vast majority of Greeks who were insured and retired, who would renounce it and remarkably refer to it as the Katrugalos law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and four school attendants from the 12th Municipal School of Xanthi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that we in Mera25, as well as we Members are, are asking us too many of our compatriots what pension they will receive and we are answering them with absolute honesty and without wanting to scare them that, if the memoirs continue, they will not receive any pension at all. Not even us, who are Members of Parliament, are going to receive any pension if we continue your very unsuccessful recipe. Today, then, the debate is starting on a huge, very important and time-consuming crucial issue, which concerns all of us here. It's the insurance. From the outset we must describe in the darkest colours and apologise, Minister, but we will support your practice, which, for many weeks, you yourself, before the draft law was put into consultation, were surrounded by television platforms, analyzing and presenting selective parts and extracts of this draft law. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Of course, the culmination of this practice was, of course, the leaking of the relevant proposal of law into your amicable approach to your prolongation, to your government, in particular, to the website that we all know Capital.gr, before it is posted - I note - to OpenGov and put into consultation with committees between Members and bodies. The constitutionally guaranteed content of the right to social security is an obligation for a State to ensure the existence and continued functioning of social security services, so that its citizen can exercise this particular social right. Merra25, in all its positions so far, both within and outside our Parliament, always emphasises the absolute and inappropriate reference to the principles which should govern social security and these principles, in our opinion, are, in our view, no more than reciprocity, universality, solidarity, compulsoryity, equality and, above all, equal treatment of citizens. The insurance bill can all be seen, but we will not stop saying, this insurance bill is a genuine - more genuine - child, child of memoirs. It started with the law of Mr. Katrugalo during the SYRIZA administration and continues very well now with the Government of New Democracy and Mr. Brutsi's law. This draft law is, I would say - I dare say - an implementing law of the Katrugalou law, although, to say it all, Mr Brutsis, it also contains some positive provisions. However, under no circumstances - I am sorry to say - it cannot constitute reform, as it applies and strengthens previous legislation, with the sole exception of decoupling insurance contributions from the taxable income of the self-employed. However, the cost of the changes will also be borne by the employees, their employers and the unemployed. For the latter, in fact, the loss will be around EUR 350 million from the OAED funds directly in respect of a reduction in the insurance contribution of 0.75 percentage points. It will be restored, says the government, in future from the state budget, while the tax relief of the free professions not only for the pension but also health services will be excessively burdened by private sector employees, thereby establishing a new type of inequality within our insurance system. That's kind of unprecedented, that is, asking the poorest to support the richest. It's insane! Specifically, employees and pensioners with an insured monthly income greater than EUR 900, that is, these extremely rich compatriots who dare to have EUR 901 a month of income, should fund the health insurance of free professionals. We're not saying, the Katorugalou law pushed them very hard on free professionals, but that's great, it's on the other side. In addition, the reduction of rates in the income tax scale for freelance professionals, individual and personal enterprises will ultimately push employees with a blockage to choose to conclude individual employment contracts, thus increasing flexible forms of employment and contributing to further dismantling our labour market. In these circumstances, the social protection system is gradually transformed into a budgetary issue of economic policy. The Minister left, said so himself with boldness. Someone would say she felt like she's fascinating about it. It is, however, transformed into a financial issue of economic policy pursued, while it was and should remain a redistributive institution of social reproduction. However, these applied socio-security policies have, for years now, seen that they have ultimately led to an increase in the number of poor pensioners, significantly undermined the role and objectives of pension systems in the Member States of the European Union, gradually transforming the welfare state into a state of charity, which is constantly expanding by increasing social and income inequalities, while decreasing continuously and worryingly, indeed, the social state, on the other hand. The argument of the lenders from the first memorandum in conjunction with their insistence that pension expenditure was high and that this concept of reduction in pension costs, which were so high, by the Greek governments in the context of domestic devaluation, austerity policies, eventually led the Greek economy, as we all know, to a complete downturn - worse than the workers and pensioners in ten years of poverty. This bill is impregnated with the strategy of transforming the welfare state into a state of charity and the redistributive social character of the social security system in budgetary terms of economic policy. It is an intervention of compliance and adaptation to 4-10-2019, if you remember, decisions by the Council of State that address the observed imbalances and unconstitutionality with terms of inequalities, fiscal sustainability and the improvement of the standard of living of pensioners. It is yet another practical intervention within the framework of the three memorandum guidelines. Even in the event of restoring part of the substantial losses suffered by pensioners, expectations are limited and concern, in fact, a very small number of these pensioners. In fact, any increases to these few pensioners will be financed by the abolition of even the cumbersome thirteenth pension - 971 million were made in 2019, I would remind you - which, incidentally, is abolished on the ground that the cost of the reform must be neutral financially. This argument is not very serious. The money provided in 2019 will finance the new increases in basic and supplementary pensions. In other words, to talk about things the way they are, ladies and gentlemen, what you have taken and what you have taken before us! No more milk! The question of whether the bill is unconstitutional automatically becomes a categorical one. There is no doubt at all that this bill is the concept of constitutionality, because Article 20, according to the Court of Auditors, page 19 - I read it in words - says: 'The reasons of public interest are not legitimate in circumventing constitutional guarantees of the special pension scheme of public servants'. In particular, Articles 87, 98 and 103A regulate the service status of civil servants and hence their insurance status, which is in the light of their position and therefore constitutes a professional insurance system, distinguishing this system from the social security system established as a social right under Article 22(5) of our Constitution. Therefore, subjecting by law to a single insurance body of civil servants and officials with other workers is inconsistent with the position which the current Constitution reserves to them, since it constitutes a constitutional acquis for them, the overthrow of which requires a revision of the relevant constitutional provisions. We in Mera25 do not speak with wishes, ladies and gentlemen, nor with theories and assumptions. As is apparent from our party's political programme and the seven areas of the new agreement for Greece that we are proposing, Mera25 has a very specific proposal and for insurance beyond the minimum guaranteed income, which will in fact bring back the CSCE for everyone. We propose the immediate abolition of the moratorium's commitment to reductions in pension expenditure and, on the contrary, the pensions should be strengthened by the new bank tax, namely a 0.2% tax on the debts of the pension support banks, while the funds of the insurance funds should be strengthened by the transfer to those shareholders of the new Development Bank, which I will explain immediately. We are recommending the conversion of the HICP, the UFO, to the Development Bank. In the Memorandum Greece the public property is constantly liquidated to crumbs, which are thrown into a black debt hole. The GOI operates as a multi-shop, which has removed the commodity for divestment on the benches on completely colonial terms and without any tangible benefit either to the public or to the wider private sector. In many cases, I would say, for example, in the case of the OPAP or the Greek or TRAINOSE, the damage to the Greek society and the economy is impressive. We've got impressive damage, not only have no benefit. Merra25, therefore, proposes: To provide bank leave at the GOI, a superstition, thus transforming it from a superstition that sells our gold to a development bank that our country needs immediately. This new development bank retains what is left of our public property, using it not to sell it, but only as a guarantee to raise resources, which will first of all be directed at financing public investments, which highlight and increase public property itself, in cooperation, where appropriate, with private and private investment. All privatisations, according to our proposal, our seventh section, are frozen until at least the prices at which some as assets will be sold are recovered. Public goods such as energy, water, beaches, etc. are excluded from any sale, independent price and conditions. Where a public asset is sold in the future, the following conditions apply: Minimum limits on investment by the buyer, collective agreements and the rights of workers, commitments for the benefit of local societies, retention of shares by the State that will pass on to the insurance funds, with a view to permanent strengthening our insurance funds. The shares of the Development Bank are provided to the insurance funds and their capitalisation is strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the problem of the insurance bills is? No one, but no one, in this country trusts them. No one thinks they're going to retire. Do you know why nobody trusts them? Because it has led to ten consecutive years and three memos in the mid-term reduction of our pensions by 45%, or if you prefer to hear it this way, by 63 billion euros. Do you know how and why this decline occurred? But hunting - how else - the well-known elephants in the room, the outraged primary surpluses, which in turn perpetuate austerity and lead to the consolidation of high unemployment, underemployment and the liquidation of labour. Because we cannot, of course, talk about any sustainable insurance when the food of the insurance system, work, is collapsed every day and more. The Government argues that there is a proportionate study that it considers to be viable in this project. But where is this study based? It is based on wishing, let me say, at growth rates and employment indicators as they would like to be and not like, unfortunately, these will actually be. A state that systematically dissuasives its citizens to bring together irrational, exaggerated surpluses to serve an already non-viable debt, there is no chance that we will ever get back on track and restore dignity to the labour market so that we can actually talk about a sustainable insurance system. So, you know, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, why can I, as a mere former actor, now, from this Stepma, guarantee you, Mr Brutsi, that neither your current insurance bill will come out of you and that the citizens still don't believe you? But because you are also and you will continue to be, for the next forty years, forced to chase these famous mastics, whose height will continue to rise for the next forty years to 2.2% of our National Gross Product. Do you know what the only answer you have to this argument is? You'll renegotiate. However, as all the Greek people are now well aware that, under the terms of negotiation, you all mean begging, and as well as the Greek people very well know what your super-party beggars have given him over the last ten years, that is absolutely nothing, in my opinion, and I apologise for saying so directly, it does very well that he does not believe you. Do you believe in yourself at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Mr Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Today, then, we are discussing insurance, a very serious issue for the country, but outside, ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming MS. And there is MATs because both MATs invaded MATs a while ago and in Lesvos the MATs invaded and in Chios the MATs invaded. In other words, the "terrorist and fighting" operation is in full progress. Now, if that is how you think you will abide by the Greek people, your right. The Greek people understand and will react. Now for the insurance. Many expectations have been cultivated by the Minister, by the New Democracy, by the government and the media, who are friendly to you, who thank God very much, that there will be a general increase in pensions. Many people are propagandaing this and saying that for the first time after many years there is an insurance reform which increases pensions. That's not a reality! And it is not true because we analysed you - and it cannot be disputed with anything - that the only ones who will see an increase are the seventy thousand pensioners who have been retired after 2016, because there is the replacement over thirty years, and those who have been cut off by supplementary pensions - and here it is in line with the decisions of the Council of State - when they have had a sum of mathematical and supplementary pension of more than EUR 1,300. Two hundred and fifty thousand plus seventy thousand, three hundred twenty thousand and all pensioners are two million seventy thousand. So the rate that will be increased is too small in relation to the total number of pensioners. On the contrary, we say - and we do not call it unfounded - that nine out of ten pensioners will be reduced. Firstly, because what you do not want to admit, and we tell you again and we will tell you until the end of the debate, you have completely cut the thirteenth pension. Of course, the thirteenth pension was escalating. We're not lying. It was escalating, up to 500 euros from there and up, percentage. However, 980 million was granted for this third pension and it was not an election allowance. It was the thirteenth pension that we secured when the financial area was secured, following the results of the European Statistical Committee, which gave the green light that this financial area exists. Of course, this was last year. In the development process, obviously, and the thirteenth pension would normally be restored for all and fully. But you compare things unparalleled. You compare the insurer, which took place in memorandum conditions, in unbearable, suffocating budgetary conditions, where the margins were indeed too shattered. In this context, what was done by the Katrugalou Act, which did not get him unconstitutional, in its trunk, the Council of State, was a large section of unification of hundreds of insurance funds, which did not know where they started and where they ended. That is exactly why there have been loose ends. Mr Brutsis, stop talking about a million loose ends, because I have also read your answers about what the loose ends are. Even simple applications from people who might want to move you into the outstanding pensions, so you're making out a million. Real outstanding pensions, according to the funds, said our rapporteur, was in June 2019, hundreds of thousands. And today you've reached about four hundred thousand. That's the reality. When it's going to be the electronic DAC - I wish it could go ahead, we'd started him and you'd do well and you'd keep going and I think you'd be done - then pensions could come out much faster. But that's the reality. Now, compared to free professionals, the problem that nine out of ten will pay 20% higher contributions is a reality. No one can question it. The other issue - which is very serious - is about professionals who have high incomes. That's why we're telling you that all your laws serve what neoliberal logic and philosophy has in it. In other words, I support high incomes, because I believe that these incomes are the pillar and driving force of the economy and not the world of work. You think this world is the driving force. So these free professionals who have high incomes will be able to pay the low category of EUR 220 and at the same time have private insurance. And that's exactly how the system is squeezing. And with the integration of the EIF into the EFKA, subsidiary insurance is lagging behind in order to slowly go to private insurance. That's the reality. It will also lose too much resources from the dismantling of income and insurance contributions. EKA's revenues will be very low and you'll see it in a few months. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are concerned that this system will not be viable after a while. Besides, the proportional study says that pension expenditure will be lower than it is today. One is that. Secondly, and I am closing down - I have tabled an amendment with some other colleagues to finally settle workers in the ECA and the EIF, who have won legal decisions for years. These judicial decisions I think you should give them justice, in fact by taking care of these people, who are currently serving under contracts of private law indefinitely and which you can use as if there were no legal proceedings within a secondary level, as has been done in other cases, such as the Ministry of Culture. I think you should accept this amendment. It is a fair amendment that will be able to help - a few centimetres of workers as a whole, there are not too many - to join the core of ECA workers, who need so much to be able to provide quality services and faster services to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u209	I want to table some legislative improvements. That's why I'm interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u210	I would ask that they be distributed. Mr Dimitris Kouvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many ministers have attempted over time to make insurance reform, namely, to legislate on an insurance system that is sustainable so that future generations can hope to receive a pension equivalent to the contributions they have paid and the years worked. Unfortunately, previous interventions in an already fragmented insurance system proved weak. And the worst is the last intervention. The anti-constitutional law of the constitutionalist - what ironic truth! - Mr Katrugalou was made clear on the basis of ideological criteria, and mainly affected middle-professional, self-employed and farmers by directly linking the payment of insurance contributions to their income. We have come to pay 70% of our income in taxes and insurance contributions. For the pensioners, they saw their pensions evaporated already within the first fortnight of each month. Finally, the Katorugalos law - which, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you still support - has not only contributed to the viability of the insurance system, but rather to the contrary. He maintained and extended the bureaucracy and complexity of the FBI. A piece of legislation of the SYRIZA government, which unfortunately did not solve problems, has, on the contrary, increased them. And so he burdened the development direction of our country and gave the graceful shot to the most productive strata in our country. The pension system was not sustainable, as proved in the recent proportional study and in the measurements made, because it absorbed 17% of GDP, the highest in Europe. The worst part is that 60% of expenditure on insurance was financed by the state budget. In addition, all these years we have had the highest insurance contributions in Europe. The combination of these gave rise to extremely negative effects on employment, savings and ultimately on the daily lives of the citizens. Another major national problem, the demographic problem, was therefore growing. Insurance is the most sensitive and multifactorial mechanism, which touches the two million six hundred thousand pensioners and three and a half million workers. We have arrived to exhaust the debate every time in search of how many workers they need to support a pensioner. That's where the problem started. All this in a Greece that preferred to pay allowances - such as this euphemism called the 15th pension that you pre-electioned a few days before the European elections and the self-government elections - than to create incentives for work for our young people. Today, those in our country who do not work, mothers, children, third-age people, unemployed, are twice as many as those who actually work. In 2050, according to a BSE finding, one employee will be represented by each pensioner. This draft Law, Brutsi, is in fact a reform. It is a courageous reform for the following eight important reasons. First reason: It is the first draft law in the history of the country accompanied by two proportionate studies. One study is the adequacy of pensions, which the Council of State requested when it found the absence of a proportionate study, which did not in fact accompany the Katrugalou Act. The second is the full specific proportional study on main and supplementary pensions, confirming the viability of the insurance system by 2070. At the same time, the University of Athens has prepared a comprehensive study of pension adequacy for the first time. These were tabled before discussing this draft law and are in response to all your questions. Secondly, it is important that we have the first legal insurance plan after ten years which does not provide for reductions in pensions. On the contrary, there will be increases. Today's and tomorrow's workers - who will have at least thirty years of insurance - will benefit from the new law when they are retired. Third reason: For self-employed, self-employed and farmers an innovative and rewarding system of free and flexible choice of insurance contributions is adopted for the self-employed. Six categories of income-disconnected contributions, insurance years and minimum wages are established. Flexibility and freedom are given to every insured person to choose the level of the contributions he will pay, which can vary annually according to his or her financial capacity and expectation of a future pension. Quarter four: It is a piece of legislation based on simplicity, flexibility and freedom. It in the past leaves the Katorugalou law and creates an attractive and rewarding insurance system that cultivates insurance consciousness to all, while providing special care to the tenants, young people, working mothers and farmers. It also protects widow's pensions and special invalidity pensions. Fifth reason: Administrative and organisational integration under the umbrella of the new electronic ECA will lead to a faster retirement period, as to date for the award of the main and supplementary pension and the one-off insurance, they needed three different employees to be assigned to three different bodies. Following the digitisation of the system, single insurance files are created and therefore an employee can award all three benefits, pensions, subsidiary and one-off. Speech 6: Insurance reform supports pensioners who want to continue their working life. In particular, multitude and pensioners will see that they enjoy 100% of their pensions, while they will be able to work further. The rest will enjoy 70% of their pension. Seventh reason: the gap created by the Katrugalo regime is definitively resolved as regards working mothers who have a child. In particular, the Katorugalou law abolished the 50% discount for working mothers foreseen when they returned to work for a year. With the Brutsis Act, this discount comes back for mothers after giving birth and for a year. Eighth Speech: For the first time a single award rule is created for everyone. The minimum period of insurance for the creation of an autonomous right shall be abolished once and the procedure for its award shall be simplified. Reform, therefore, means State intervention for the benefit of all citizens, mainly in the light of the next generations. The adequacy of pensions and the sustainability of the insurance system are more necessary than when. The country's insurance system must in practice - and not in words - be governed by the principles of social justice, equality, restoring the principle of solidarity between generations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of the words of the former politician and noble, Von Bismarck, that "policy is the art of as practicable". The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been doing everything for seven months to confirm it. With will and plan, everything is possible. Greece, which we envision, is Greece of progress, production and development for all citizens. This plan is taking action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u212	And we thank Mr. Kouvela. We continue with New Democracy and the Corfiot Mr. Stefanos Gikas is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, an insurance reform which solves the problem of the sustainability of the insurance system, as the proportionate study has shown by 2070. I start with four assumptions. First: we would all like to increase all pensions. Does the country's budgetary situation allow this? Can the country's potential for this? Does that allow the demographic problem we're facing? Oh, no. The New Democracy has not promised the impossible. What we're doing moves in the sphere of fitness. Second admission: A few years ago, in 2016, the previous law, the Katrugalou law, was passed. I'm not saying, he offered to incorporate the insurance funds. But he had too many claws, too many distortions, too many anti-constitutional provisions. In any case, they have already been mentioned in detail. These are corrected by this draft law. I will recall the distortions with disability pensions, with widow's pensions, with successive insurance, etc. Thirdly, it has been said by many colleagues: this law is accompanied by a proportionate study. So he's moving in the right direction. The proportionality study uses data from EUROSTAT and must of course be respected and accepted. It gives sustainability by 2070. Fourthly, we are talking about the thirteenth pension. I will not be tired of repeating that there was no 15th pension. There was an election allowance that you gave SYRIZA colleagues about EUR 900 million of EUR 2.5 billion, which would be the thirteenth pension. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that when the country's budgetary powers allow it, not only a third, but also a fourth pension, this government will bear. This law digitizes the insurance system. We are entering a new era, in the era of digitisation, hence the 'e' in the definition: e - Evka, with the 'echlon' of course being a 'national'. Citizens will now be able to enter a modern online platform, ask for certificates without a problem. The important thing that this law brings is that - if everything goes well - within a few months of today, on 1 June, we will have the first digital pensions. It is a huge reform that will certainly favour all Greeks. The Act provides for an innovative insurance contribution system. It enables the insured person to choose the level of his contribution. His financial planning may not allow a large contribution now, but next year it may be possible to allow it. At the beginning of the year the insured person shall choose and may change the level of the contribution. As far as young farmers and farmers are concerned, this bill helps farmers. Because the contributions to this multi-faceted category of our fellow citizens are lower. With regard to the rate of replacement, from thirty to forty years of insurance, this law does give rise to increases. It helps the insured for more years. Of course, for the officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies who have double years of insurance, there is a concern. This consideration, Minister, has been raised to you. I want to believe that in a subsequent bill and since the country's budgetary needs allow this to be corrected. There are too many colleagues from the Armed Forces who have been released against their will to thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty-five years and are not currently entitled, by this law, to a full pension. It is something, however, that we can see - as full as it is in forty years of insurance - in the next few months, in the coming years. Of course, there is a recovery of supplementary pensions to those pensioners who were reduced in 2016 because the sum of the principal and subsidiary was more than EUR 1,300. It is also an important addition that helps too many of our fellow citizens. I now come to a point where retired workers are. You're right about doing the new law too. You're giving the possibility of a retired person working and getting 70% of his pension. Of course, for retired workers in the public sector you have an age limit, the sixty-second year. Of course, you've made improvements to this. There is a transitional period and it is important. But, Minister, I would like to take note of the fact that the pensioners of this category, on the average, are reprivatised in fifty-three years, against their will, until sixty-two are about eight to nine years productive. Especially in this category of pensioners, you do not give the possibility - since pensions are fully suspended - to offer their services in the wider public sector. I believe that once again, since the country's budgetary needs allow it, this will be lifted, because it is indeed an approach that is not right. This reform that you are bringing is an important reform, a reform that passes us in another era, in the digital age. You're helping the primary sector. You are giving important facilities to the free professionals, the self-employed, the farmers, and I think it really takes us to a new era. That is why I call on colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. We continue with New Democracy and Kastorian Mr. Zesi Jekalaya.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, the Government of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and we, the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, are now very proud of the fact that we are bringing this bill to history. It is part of today's and tomorrow's generations, for today's workers and pensioners. It is a great reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the difficulty with which SYRIZA's colleagues find themselves. Recently not only because we have been dismantling their political arguments, not only because we have revealed their lies, not only because we have been squeezing their tactics but - let me have the popular expression - ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, lately going on a train. I say this in the sense that the course of the New Democracy Government in the last seven months reminds of the farce, the most good line on the Athens-Thessaloniki rail network. On this course of steam engine is the Minister of Labour, Mr. Yiannis Vroutzis, particularly for workers and insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u216	The retired in the tracks in between.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Chakalato, please. Please, SYRIZA colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u218	I am therefore saying this, ladies and gentlemen, for the Minister of Labour, because the first time comes a thorough study. That's never happened until today. Through the undeniable prestige of the National Analogue Authority on the one hand and on the other by studying the undeniable also prestige of the Athens University of Economics, it is shown that the adequacy of pensions is ensured. The law of SYRIZA, the 2016 Katrugalo Law accumulated many sufferings for Greek citizens, workers and pensioners. This is what our fellow citizens have been paying for in these years when they are afflicted with receiving their pensions for two, three and four years. And the law of SYRIZA fell three times in the Council of State. Because he was judged to be unconstitutional, for he did not have a proportionate study. SYRIZA's lies continue by saying that pension expenditure is reduced by 200 million euros. This is a lie because from our budget it seems that 0.5% of GDP is guaranteed that it goes to pension expenditure. Let us not go again and analyse the third pension which was an election allowance under 1 billion. While a real monthly pension costs more than 2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I understand that you have a political identity problem. That's why you're a constant refusal. You don't have a proposal. So I invite you to think about it by Thursday, to come to this train, to increase the speed of progress and rationality and to vote. In the end it will be honorable for you and for your future to vote for the proposal of our New Democracy, our Government. So it is the first time that we at last have a public social security system stable and long-term. It is a large section that we are safeguarding labour and productivity. After thirty years of work, recompense will be full. This concerns all employees from 2016 onwards. No pension will be reduced. They'll all be raised. The bill is characterised by three features: simplicity, freedom and flexibility. They have the option for citizens to choose. Self-employed professionals from seven categories, farmers from six categories. Attributes have been analysed. It has four features: contributions, pensions, the philosophy of change with recompense, and as far as the organisation, the e-ECA is concerned. Not to mention the lowest category of EUR 185 goes to EUR 210. That's down, too. The employees are supposed to lose EUR 427 a year. Yeah, they're losing the contributions, but at the end, the insured, the worker. It's all about how much they stay in the pocket. When we took care of 1-1-2020 and tax rates at low incomes up to 10 000 euros have taken from 22% to 9%, you understand that there is a profit. In a long time no one will be lost. Everyone's gonna be won. There will be the incentive of participation in work. The more one pays, the more one gets pension. We place the emphasis on our ideological philosophical dimension that for us the most powerful part of Greek society, the front, the project is farmers, the self-employed and the scientists. We motivate them to work productively. It is important that the bill ensures unification, both administrative and organisational, in the main pension of subsidiary and single. We're reducing from seventy-five to fifty days to have insurance capacity for both freelance professionals down to two months. We give the working mothers a 50% discount on the contributions. Finally, with regard to post-retirement work, we want our healthy fellow citizens who retire to work. For farmers and multitude we ensure that they can continue to work by taking 100% of the pension. For all the others, while so far on the SYRIZA government kept 40% of the pension, we did 70%. We are the fact that we want work and productivity. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA had become Greek citizens over the past few years, when they knew that even if they were working, they would go for taxes and insurance contributions from 70% to 90% of their profits, preferred or not to work or escape tax. We want to stimulate labour, productivity. This is done by reducing tax rates, insurance contributions, but at the same time, we are hitting illegal work, and we are therefore providing for a penalty of 12 pensions to any pensioner who continues to work but is not declared. We are proud of this bill because it gives growth and perspective mainly to today's and tomorrow's generations of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. Mrs Chabika Iatridis has the floor from the beautiful Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis has continued with the deposit of this bill by the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsis, what he has done consistently since he took over the country's governance. To honour the commitments to the Greek people, to uphold what they have promised for a return to normality, for a return to the real development of the economy, for the liberation through our legislative initiatives, the healthy forces of the country, the Greeks and Greeks who want with their activity and their work to produce wealth that they want to create, offer and enjoy, when the time comes, the labors of life. This is our essential difference with SYRIZA. We believe in the creativity of the Greek people, we believe in entrepreneurship, we believe in creating extra wealth. And the creation of wealth, creates more income for all, creates better and better paid jobs, which in turn strengthen our country's insurance system. That is the essence of our policy. This is the essence of our approach to the development of our country. And that philosophy was honoured by the Greek people on 7 July. That is why, with this bill, we are honouring once again his confidence. Let me also compare here, in my turn, what had happened in the first half of SYRIZA's governance and what is happening now with the Government of New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I have noted this in the debate we had in the relevant committees, and I note it in your general opposition tactics. You act as if you hadn't ruled the country for four and a half years, you've acted as if you hadn't brought the capital control, you've never been a government of this place so far. But thankfully for all of us, he remembers and remembers very well the Greek people and led you to the headquarters of Antipopulation. What is the reality with regard to the insurance reform of the Ministry of Labour and the Government of New Democracy? Two comments: The first is that the majority of the bodies that we heard at committee meetings were positive towards the bill. It is one of the few times that the bodies, representing parts of our society, feel that the bill is positive, that it is a step forward. And we, New Democracy, have told the Greeks and Greek women that we want to take Greece forward. The second is that the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA, all he finds to point out is that the bill has a class mark. Honestly, I believe that this argument is tired in its generality and, if you like, I do not think it is in opposition. This bill is an essential reform. It responds to modern reality and leads to a socially sound law and, most importantly, sustainable insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is coming out of a deep economic crisis and we must create the conditions to restore confidence between state and citizens. The reality is that with this bill, as Minister Brutsi said in the committees, this confidence is restored. And in the question of whether all employees will be retired when the time comes, this bill undeniably answers 'yes'. That is the essence, that is the raising of psychology among the workers in this country, but also of its pensioners. This bill is the first to which the Minister of Labour submits the proportionate study. It contains regulations that solve distortions, which solve problems. I could criticise SYRIZA's policy on the insurance bill that he imposed and the problems he created, but we must look at the present and the future. The fact is that this bill is the first to which pension increases are planned, particularly for current and tomorrow's workers, who will have thirty years of insurance and who, through the new law, will see higher benefits when retired. It takes steps to enable retired people who want to work, to do so by maintaining part of their pensions and seeking to work under legal status and not on black work. The new system, for employees, i.e. freelance professionals, becomes more flexible, fairer and more efficient, while constitutional legitimacy is respected, in accordance with the decisions of the Council of State. The vast majority of the free professionals will obviously be favoured by the combination of the insurance and tax arrangements promoted by the Mitsotakis Government. Each new free professional will have reduced contributions for five years, without having to return the difference in the reduced contributions, as required by the Katrugalos Act. In this way, a substantial incentive is given to boost entrepreneurship to create wealth. Finally, something very important: insurance reform supports working mothers. By law and not by circular, the empty law created by the Katrugalos Act is finally solved in the working mothers, who have a child and their reduced 50% contributions. The provision concerns employed mothers with an unpaid employment relationship either self-employed or self-employed in the agricultural sector. Minister, it is true that this draft law is progressing towards a substantial resolution of our insurance system and with its provisions on e-ECA it is expected to serve the insured of this country, as it suits them, it is no coincidence that on your own government its digitisation procedures had begun. I would just like to point out here and close my speech, that we should see the question of the functioning of the local administrative committees, for the consideration of the issues of the ECA. Due to the insularity and territorial discontinuity, perhaps we should see the fact that only one administrative committee for the Dodecanese is not sufficient, as is provided for by the Presidential Decree 8 of 2019. It is something that should concern us. We should see, again for the same reason, the upgrading of the Social Security Office in Karpathos as a decentralised department, as well as the upgrading of the EFKA branch in Leros to a local branch. Ladies and gentlemen, we wholeheartedly support this bill. We support it wholeheartedly because it meets the needs of our country, the needs of the people who work and create wealth and jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have witnessed a bar of publications and the presence of the Minister on all channels. What was that communal flood saying? That the New Democracy will finally increase pensions for pensioners. Many pensioners believed it and you know, many believe that in the next few months they will see increases in their wallets. I assume that Mr. Evia, too, who hosted you so many times, has believed it, too. The question is, what will you answer them now that they will see that all this was a huge lie? And where does that come from? But, from the proportionate study you have presented, which quite simply says that for the next twenty years, the average pension will be reduced every year. Mr Brutsis himself admits that the pension will be reduced every year for the next twenty years. So he lied about what he said about raises. The Greek people, of course, have realised that whenever the New Democracy has created a record in recent times - and before the elections - it must be careful. Because wherever you listen, it says, a lot of cherries, keep a small basket. That's what the Greek people say. This is the tactics of the New Democracy. I did hear from a colleague that he would write history of this bill. Yes, it is the only bill with the boulder, which states the reduction of pensions in the years to come. Because the New Democracy is not just a government that distorts, propagandas. It is a government which, at the same time, deceives, but also transacts, because the leadership of the Ministry of Labour is traded with the employer to abolish collective agreements, is traded with the employer in order not to justify redundancies, it cooperates with the employer to reduce wages as much as it can, because Mr Stournaras also confirmed that the New Democracy's development plan leads to a reduction in wages. These are facts, data that are written. In fact, Mr Brutsis has no sacrosanct and fidelity because he comes to cheat on a subject that is life for retired people. We're not talking about people who can get into the market, work, claim their future, study. We're talking about our parents, about our grandparents who depend on their survival. The New Democracy that has no sacrosanct and loyal plays with the pensions of pensioners. Isn't that what he did with the 4% growth? Didn't that do the surpluses that would reduce them? Isn't that what he did with the bulldozers in Greek? Isn't that what he did with the refugee? With the act of legislation you brought here a while ago, without local societies knowing about it, with the extension you took for the weekly negotiation of Mr. Metarakis, what were you finally doing? Do you know that the district manager came out and said that no one took him from the government a week and asked for an extension and now sent the crackdown of the MATs against the islanders, as they send them against the refugees, why does the New Democracy work at the expense of both the Greeks and the refugees, at the expense of all the pensioners? That's exactly what's going on in this bill. Of course, Mr. Brutsis is well known. He is the one who in 2012 abolished by law and the Christmas allowance and the Easter allowance and the pension allowance. The gift I mean, the two gifts and the allowance. Of course he is well known, because he has brought the undersubject to youth, he is well aware that he has voted for the thirteenth pension as a permanent measure here, and now he says that this is a lie. I mean, his vote, today's minister's vote says it was a lie. However, is the statement by Mr Mitsotakis in the report that the thirteenth pension will remain, too, a lie? There is one question: How will the Greek citizen be able to trust a government that today is shown here in plenary that the Prime Minister is lying to her? Because at the Prime Minister's press conference, he said the 15th pension would remain, and now he comes here and breaks it down. And with a creative accounting he's coming to tell us he's getting increases in pensioners. Let's see how. With 200 million less in the budget? Where? Are you going to give birth to money? How? Have you improved the controls to combat the evasion? Aren't you the ones who delivered an insurance system, if I'm not mistaken, with nine hundred different ways of calculating pensions in IKA, with a lot of black work, with tax evasion, with a problem of sustainability, so that Greece does not have a guaranteed public insurance system in 2015? Because these are the things that the Katrugalu law has come to correct. Let's not forget all this. But the thirteenth pension, which is cut, is cut by eight hundred thousand pensioners and a large proportion by a million seven hundred thousand pensioners. In other words, you are giving a small increase, because it will probably be given to those who have over 3,500 euros fixed a monthly fee over the last thirty years. How many are there? It is below 2% of the pensioners and the remaining 98% will reduce pension earnings. That's the percentage. Over 90%. I believe that the figures, Mr Chakaloto, are over 90% of the people who will see their pensions cut annually. It was, of course, in the well-known channels that Mr Brutsis was walking around - with preferences, of course, because I heard channels accusing him of giving the bill as no paper to some of his friends and not all of the journalists, because that is where New Democracy discriminates, you know, this Hook Right to discriminate against the citizens, even to journalists, is discriminatory - and he said that he would have another 'cushion' for retired people to justify the cutting off of the tenth of the third pension. He was talking about a social tool, a support mechanism, which never came. He was talking, he says, in consultation, but he was cut too. That is why I have not heard a reason. But what is the corresponding print on the contributions? And that's what I'm interested in because I, Mr. Simopole, and a freelance professional I've been for decades and paid contributions. It is therefore coming to engineers to increase contributions for over 90% of the workers. Watch out for the free professionals. Note who: The New Democracy that said it is the middle-class party and will help by reducing contributions to the highly competitive part of society, engineers, free traders, now comes and creates classes, which are unfair, and increases contributions to 90% of engineers by helping those who take 50,000, 60,000, 70,000 income. Yeah, they're probably lowering the contribution. But what will be the result? They will not benefit because they will leave the public insurance system, go to a parallel private system, lose the insurance twice, because we will not have income for the whole of society, for all those insured, for all retired people, and thus be questioned with this choice and the drafting of the next generations which will probably be brought to justice with Mr Brutsi's policies. This is basically the bill that brings us today. And as far as the announcements are concerned, all right, "the mountains have been poured out, but it is certain that this bill will be actually overturned by the next left government, as well as by society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. Mr Anastasios Hatzidis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while carefully reading the draft law of my Ministry of Labour, I think of just one word: Justice. Justice for all, employed, self-employed, farmers, pensioners. The government today restores the sense of worker law by putting in the insurance system simplicity, flexibility and above all recompense. In simple terms, high contributions will now give higher pensions and current pensioners for the first time after almost twelve years will not see new reductions in their pensions. So today we are bringing a law not only fair but also well thought out. No more amateurisms of the past. The insurance bill shall be accompanied by the necessary proportionate study and an additional study on the viability of the system by 2070 by the OPCW. Furthermore, it is clear that the current government insists on legality and not on legality. We all remember that the SYRIZA government said that it was the every word of the Constitution and then an article on the subject was the law of Mr Katrugalos in the courts of the country as an anti-constitutional one, and they at the same time mocked the free professionals when they were justly complaining about the unconstitutionality of that unjust law. Today, unfortunately, SYRIZA is once again against the citizens, against the responsibility for the country, against the future of today's workers and pensioners. One of the major innovations of the bill is freedom of choice. This is a freedom that fully reflects our ideology. Yes, we want a state that cares for all citizens and especially for the weak, but without putting obstacles to those who want to create and try even more. So we respect the fact that every man, every worker has different needs, different possibilities and different planning for his own future. The six categories of insurance for freelance professionals are therefore free to choose and each will be chosen on the basis of their planning. So from now on we will all know in advance what will be expected of us in the future. So let us take a simple example: A free professional with an annual declared income of EUR 25,000, is currently paying for insurance contributions of EUR 5 000 annually. From now on it will save 3,000 euros a year, if it selects the lowest category and if it chooses a higher one again, it will be won by about 2,000 euros a year. And as a young man, Mr Brutsi, I am delighted that the Ministry of Labour has been doing what we have all been discussing for years. Reduced contributions for freelance professionals during the first five years of their activity without returning the difference that will result from them in the future will give great breath to young people. In essence, therefore, the Government of New Democracy supports Greek entrepreneurship, without discrimination. And this reform can work effectively in restarting the escapade of young scientists from home abroad. Also, the gradual reduction in employee insurance contributions will finally give a breath of family income. The non-happiness of the parallel insurance of employees, when covered by the second category, facilitates greater productivity which is also the demand for our economy. No one who wishes to work more will be punished from now on. In other words, the block as a second employee will no longer be forbidden. So let us think about how many blocks have been closed in previous years due to high contributions. Let us think about how many people were taken into black labor with losses for themselves and for the state as well. So our philosophy is different. The insurance system will not function as a second tax, as was the case with SYRIZA. For farmers too, the favourable framework for reduced insurance contributions and disconnected from the years of insurance will give way to agricultural income. It allows future planning through a free selection of scale and stops excessive insurance costs. The Greek farmers have suffered enough damage in recent years. High taxation has led many of them to despair. With this reform today farmers are now also actively supporting them. And all of this adds to the modernization of the FBI. It is now starting to pay off the faster pensions and delays are stopped. Unfortunately, the outstanding pension applications from the former inherited touch one million. So today's bill is part of the country's insurance history. This is not only because insurance reform reflects the ideology of the New Democracy, it is due to the fact that it meets the common sense and needs of the workers. So today we are solving years of problems and setting new foundations for the future. We give the Greeks an insurance system that they deserve, modern, fair and rewarding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u225	Thank you for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and three teachers from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Taradilis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that social security is an indicator of the adequacy of a state's social care and, of course, there is no doubt that it is an indicator of the quality of life of its citizens. On the basis of these findings, let us see what has happened in our country over recent years. The insured person was suddenly found to lose a large part of the pension that he was entitled to, despite the fact that he gave over time, on a compulsory basis a large part of his income in insurance contributions with expectation - what else? - to have sufficient health coverage and obviously a satisfactory pension to ensure a decent living at the third age. Instead of these expectations in the previous government period, what did we see? We had a horizontal pension cut without taking into account the parametric characteristics of their method of calculation, without any scientific means, thereby abolishing the principle of remuneration. What else did we see? We have seen the free professionals find it difficult or unable to pay their insurance contributions, undeclared work and the avoidance of being recorded at increased levels, we have seen our fellow citizens who, because of their age, have been retired for a long time, two - three years, with loan friends, relatives literally in poverty, because the state has been unable to give them pension in time because of the tragic bureaucracy that prevails. These are, of course, only some of the representative examples that really bear witness to the weaknesses and diseases of the insurance system in recent years. What, then, is the New Democracy Government doing in depositing this bill? The government proceeds with this bill to significant improvements in the country's insurance system by introducing innovative elements of Greece's data, such as the first creation of the Electronic National Social Security Institution, the well-known e - EFKA. With this new body, of course, in addition to the full organisational and administrative integration of all insurance companies, a corresponding integration and digitisation of all social security and social pension functions are achieved. This radical change will drastically reduce bureaucracy in the daily life of the insured person, but also in the completion of the administrative procedures required for the immediate performance of the consolidated pension as a principal and subsidiary. It is also important to clarify here that, with the above-mentioned changes, the performance of the subsidiary and the one, which have been very differentiated so far, will now be with the main pension without delay. The draft also adopts an innovative and reward system for free and flexible choice of insurance contributions from the free professions, farmers, self-employed persons according to their financial capacity and the pensionable earnings they want to receive in the future, irrespective of their income and years of insurance. A similar flexibility is, of course, provided for by the introduction of three categories of insurance contributions for auxiliaries for one-off pensions and pensions respectively. Here I would like to mention that, in my view, a prerequisite for the success of the regulation is the choice of the scale of insurance contributions to be made consciously, responsibly and fully aware of the correlation between insurance contributions and pension remuneration. In this respect, the possibility of easy access to the right information, as well as the repetitive information for the insured, in order to establish and strengthen the appropriate safeguards, will certainly create a fertile ground in order to achieve the objectives of this measure. It is also laid down in this draft law as a lower level of contributions during the first five years for new entrants in the labour market, obviously recognising the need to support their professional start-ups without even having to repay this facility after the end of the five-year period, as is now happening. It is very reasonable, of course, that this particular arrangement also contributes to the attempt to repatriate our young people who have emigrated abroad in the previous years of the crisis. There is also provision for a gradual reduction in insurance contributions for workers and employers, which is gradually up to 5% and which will contribute to the growth of the country due to the reduction in wage labour costs and thus to boost investment and increase employment. Moreover, the increases in the rates of replacement and the pensions that have been used in recent years have certainly restored the return on social security to some extent. In conclusion, it would be inconsistent not to stress the government's efforts with this bill to make the management function of the insurance system an anthropcentric. Apart from the fact that all the above mentioned arrangements have an absolute reference point to the insured person's needs, it is also important that the initiative for setting up the e-ECA, the Special Reporting Directorate for HEIs, which expects to put a simple port in order to upgrade the quality of life of disabled people by strengthening the efficiency of the administration in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes introduced into the insurance system based on sound proportionate studies and taking into account the decisions of the Council of State, which have annulled the insurance law of the previous government, are decisive steps on the way we have to go as a country to bring us closer to best practices in other European countries. This process is a partner and must be the citizen, who, with appropriate insurance and culture, can really contribute decisively to the achievement of the insurance model that he and future generations deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u227	Thank you. Mr Dionysios has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally leaving behind the past of manoeuvring, punishing and unequal treatment and all the circumvention of the fundamental principles of social security. The new insurance bill is distinguished by the principles of simplicity, flexibility and freedom. We are seeking to create an attractive compensation system that fosters insurance, an insurance system which provides special care for tenants, young people, working mothers, farmers, widows' pensions, as well as for people with disabilities. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is responsible, serious and respectful to the Greek people for replacing the shameful Katorugalos law, a law whose provisions are gross injustice to all the social groups of professionals and workers. More specifically, the new insurance system comes to bring only increases and not reductions in pensions. It comes to restore the injustices and failures of the previous law, a law which Mr Katrugalos had described as socially discriminatory in favour of the weak. It is a good thing that big words can be supported. So, after the SYRIZA government abolished the ESS, the privileged pensioners' allowance paid to those who normally had to receive exceptionally low pensions, i.e. those with few contributions and left an account to be paid to those who had worked for many years, as from somewhere you had to get the broken pensions out. But that's not social law. Also, this does not prove your social sensitivity, but your inability to structure a sustainable law and recompense insurance system. Contrary to what the previous government has done, therefore, the new insurance policy, along with the increase in pensions for those who have worked for many years, provides for the protection of the low-pension workers by creating a support mechanism. Thus, on the basis of the provisions of the new insurance scheme, they will receive a pension with an increase of all the current workers who have thirty years of work. In particular, around EUR 5 to 200, with a medium-term increase of EUR 99,5, and more than 100 000 insured will be given increases in the main pension. Let us point out that no pension is reduced. It is the first insurance bill after twelve years that will have no reduction in pensions. On the contrary, some of the current pensioners will only see increases, while the most favoured will be today's and future workers, as they will see an increase in their pensions if they complete over thirty years of working life. Moreover, the pension pay for all insured persons is now calculated with the remuneration of 14 months and not 12 months, as falsely and irresistibly claimed by some causing confusion. At this point I would like to emphasise the important change that is taking place in relation to the old regime with regard to pensioners who want to continue their working life legally. SYRIZA’s punishment law did not actually allow these people to work. The provisions of the new insurance scheme also support retired workers. In particular, multitudes and farmers are completely protected, as they will enjoy 100% of their pensions. All other pensioners, if they work, will receive 70% of their pension. At the same time, with regard to outstanding pensions, the solution will be given through the digitisation of the EMAS that we believe will be ready at the end of 2021. The new insurance is distinguished by a strong social and developmental sign. At the same time, the new insurance encourages young people to join the production process. The Katorugalou law obliged free professionals, after five years, to give back the difference of reduced contributions and the first insurance category. This is changing today. Special care, relating to reduced contributions for the first five years of working life, will be without the consequences of the past. In fact, the new insurance law introduces a double-tax exemption for those employed and self-employed, i.e. they are paid in a block. Insurance reform also faces sensitive and respectful persons with disabilities. The Directorate for Reporting on SME issues is therefore recommended to e-ECA. Also, working mothers benefit from this insurance bill. In closing, with regard to the contributions of the free professions, we should see the increase in the amount of monthly contributions combined with and in the light of the reduction in tax rates from 22% to 9%, so that we can understand that in the end the net annual income of the free professionals and the self-employed is increased. For example, free professionals with an annual income of 6,000 euros will see their net income increased by 130 euros, while those with an annual income of 10,000 euros will see their annual net income increased by 770 euros. At the same time, the whole structure of the new insurance change for the freelance professionals, the self-employed and the farmers has been designed to help everyone choose a higher category to ensure a much higher pension. Ladies and gentlemen, the social benefits of the state under social security should be granted in order to ensure decent living and social protection, in terms of equality, social justice, redistribution and solidarity of generations. The government today introduces to the vote an insurance reform that fully serves the abovementioned purposes, thus making social security in Greece, socially just, rewarding, flexible and sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Kelles Christos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our government, faithful to the election promises, is moving on in the reform of the Katorugalos law, which, in effect, is abolishing. Firstly, the bill is accompanied for the first time by a proportionate study, where it is evident that pensions are secured by 2070, so that citizens can plan their lives in a long and safe manner. It is also accompanied by a scientific study by the University of Athens, which confirms the viability of the insurance system. Secondly, it stops insurance being tax, because it disconnects insurance contributions from income. Thirdly, it satisfys hundreds of thousands of free professionals and farmers. Fourthly, it gives the option to choose an insurance class with the corresponding pension. Fifthly, double contributions are abolished. Sixthly, for the first time, no pension is reduced. On the contrary, pensions increase in some categories. Seventh, it recommends for the first time the electronic EFCA. The creation of the e-ECA and the integration into it of the Single European Insurance and Safety Fund, together with the planned savings of resources, the strengthening of digital governance and the management of human resources, improves the quality of the services provided to the citizen and leads to the faster award of pensions. Eighth, the pension pay for all insured persons is calculated by the pay of fourteen months and not twelve, as some falsely tried to spread. Ninth, the scope, on a voluntary basis, of subsistence to supplementary pensions and the one-off provision to hundreds of thousands of insured persons who were unable to benefit from the supplementary insurance scheme and one-off benefits is extended for the first time. For the first time, a single award rule is created for everyone. The minimum period of insurance for the basis of an individual right to a one-off benefit shall be abolished and the procedure for awarding such benefit shall be simplified uniformly. For the first time, the speeding up of pensions in successive insurance cases opens. For the purpose of establishing a pension entitlement, we are reducing the required days of insurance from a thousand five hundred to a thousand, carried out in the institution of the last activity or employment. The minimum working time for the acquisition of insurance capacity from seventy-five days to fifty days for employed persons and from three to two months for self-employed persons shall be reduced. The social state as a whole is being strengthened, and I will mention in particular three regulations. Firstly, with regard to people with disabilities, an injustice of many years is solved, as we allow it to receive a pension if it fulfils the conditions of the same entitlement for retirement, the parent or husband or brother of the disabled member of the family, whose payment for the pension has been suspended as a result of the work of the disabled member. Secondly, it is very sensitive to pensioners who receive an extra-institutional allowance or a redundancy allowance or a blindness allowance, who will now be exempted from the levying of 6% in favour of EEAS. Third, a special address is recommended to the EMAS for the immediateest and best service of the MEDIAs. The Brutsi Act abolishes the fifty-two-year age limit for widows and widows at the time of the death of former shareholders of the Equity Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill is moving into a developmental orbit. It liberates creativity and energy for all those who have been retired, but they want to continue to produce. In particular, multitude and farmers retired will continue to receive 100% of their pensions, while all other pensioners, if they work, will receive 70% of their pensions. SYRIZA's punishing and provocative law for workers and pensioners is abolished. At this point, Minister, I would like to thank you for the change that you have made to Article 27, where pensioners under Article 20 of the Katrugalo Law, namely Law No.4387/2016, since they continue to work in the private sector, will have a transitional period of two years, because these people employ staff, pay tax, pay VAT and contribute to the development of the national economy. The State wins from them because it also collects tax and tax. We support the inclusion of new professionals and self-employed in the production process. We are broadening the scope of reduced contributions over the first five years, not only for young scientists, but also for every young person and every young person who wants to set up his own business. In fact, the new law does not oblige anyone free of charge after five years to give back the difference in the reduced contributions and the first insurance category, as the Katrugalos law required. Finally, we support working mothers. By provision of the law and not by circular, the empty law created by the Katorugalou law is definitively resolved to the working mothers who have a child and their reduced contributions. The provision concerns employed mothers with an employment relationship either self-employed, selfemployed or employed in the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this is New Democracy's new insurance law. That's the law you're complaining of? You don't want to vote for this law, do you? You voted for the Katorugalou law and you don't want to vote for this law? You don't want to vote for Yannis Brutsi. You're not voting for Mr. Mitsotakis. You are not voting for the New Democracy. You vote for your parents, you vote for your children, you vote for the new generation, for the Greek society, which as a whole walks the path of progress and development, for a more clear Greece. Finally, Mr Minister, I can only congratulate you on all your efforts, but also on all your staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Kafantari Harula from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really think we will all agree that an important function of a modern social state is also the social security system. I would like to say here, because we have heard a lot since the morning, and the previous colleague said that everything was done by the Katorugalou law and then by the insurance system. It all started then. However, we must not forget a few basic things that have to do with the course of the insurance system in our country. We must not forget that after the war and at the time of our country's development and industrial development, the insurance funds with the deposits of their reserves at a zero interest rate on the Bank of Greece financed this development. We must not forget later - and it was not a government of SYRIZA - the issue of toxic bonds and I think too many will remember that in relation to the reserves of the insurance funds. We must not forget 'deadly', I would say - in introductory terms, the word - PSI, which was made at the government, Mr Samaras, in 2012, if I remember correctly, from which PSI the insurance funds lost around 14 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also link all this to the crisis and to the memorials and the very tough memorial tomorial 2010 to 2015, where unemployment has become abundant, because it is very important for the insurance sector. Of course, we cannot connect it to the ageing population. So you are coming today and you are tabling - I am addressing the New Democracy - a bill. I will only recall that in 2015 the insurance funds were deficits. The law of SYRIZA broke through, unified the insurance funds, became the ECA and indeed, in 2019 had a sustainable outlook for the public insurance system. However, the government's bill, this insurance reform brings a crucial blow to the employees, the pensioners, the unemployed. The word "success is the best revenge", the government, although in a non-remembrary environment - and we must stress this - with this bill has succeeded in transforming it into "defence is the best revenge". But revenge for who? For SYRIZA? Unfortunately, for the Greek people, New Democracy once again deceived its voters. The denial did not slow to come, on the one hand, through the mouth of the government president of ADEDY, that great mobilisation against the bill was made by all trade unions, but by the majority of the bodies at the hearing in the House, which criticised the absence of increases. What do you mean, first? Half of the articles confirm the SYRIZA bill, with substantial modifications to specific provisions, meaningless technical arrangements, with strong cries confirming our reform. SYRIZA Ministerial Decisions and Circulars are incorporated into the bill in the form of provisions to say that something is changing. Besides, the Council of State clearly points out that, since the bill is still based on the film of insurance for persons who cannot be subject to the same insurance body, issues of unconstitutionality arise, which leads to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that we will sooner or later enter a circle of refugees. The communication character and the provisions will also give rise to tensions with regard to the EIF through its inclusion in the EBRD, the innovation of the draft law which consists of consolidating the database of insurance data through the digitisation of the EBRD, but without any preparation in the EBRD. The money in the budget is less than what was given in 2019 - it also points out that the proportional study - which means inverted redistribution, increases in the upper tiles, abolishing the tenth pension. Not only is any reference to the thirteenth pension abolished, but also the multi-broken support mechanism for low-retired people, where 0.5% of the GDP covered is lost in a vague statement of expenditure on welfare and social solidarity policies. We have bypassed the trial in the Council of State, since the government has refused to deal with political matters - I say - with the return of the large Memorandum cuts, the reduction of the OAED's revenues to tackle unemployment, which leads to the elimination of programmes. I would like to stress here that, with data from the OAED in January, unemployment has been overrun by one million. About a million thousand are unemployed. We have a reduction in the average pension by 2040 - this refers to the proportional study - because of the architecture of the bill. The replacement rate, which, although increased for persons with more than thirty years of insurance, without the 15th pension, does not lead to increases, but to deception. It was a classic SYRIZA option for under thirty years of insurance in a labour market in deregulation. There was, however, a personal difference for insured persons before 2016. Now the insured before 2016 will not see an increase, because it will be offset by the personal difference. We have contributions through the introduction of classes - this is very serious - which it disconnects with years and income. So we have an increase in remuneration in the high levels, but also in the ancillary areas, in a budget area that we have created and which we have not been able to implement because of the troika. However, 88% with 90% of the self-employed will see an increase in their contributions, because indeed from 180 euros to 210 euros is a respectable percentage for a small trader. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Here I would also like to refer to my colleague Mr Loverdos from West Athens, who said that this is not an increase of EUR 30-35. Does the New Democracy not see in the poor neighborhoods that, unfortunately, they also started to close shops after all that happened at Christmas, where the move was particularly down because of the failure to award the dividend? We believe that in this way someone who has high incomes, by choosing the low class, will be able to make a private insurance policy for the rest. With this we understand that private insurance is also financed indirectly. On the other hand, of course, what is the income of the insurance funds? In conclusion, however, Article 24 on national and pay pension stipulates that the pension adjustment is to be carried out by 2024 when the ELSTAT Annual General Index of Consumer Prices and from 2025 on the basis of the wage change index calculated by ELSTAT is changed. This is not established in the specific proportional studies - the Government is proud of this - since there must be a fair ratio between the current salary and the amount of the pension. In other words, there is no guarantee of a stable quantitative relationship between the pension and the remuneration of the employed persons to maintain a replacement rate sufficient for the retired person. We have referred to all of this in detail. Many lead us to conclude that the new, unique and in the longer term sustainable draft law on insurance reform is a socially unfair bill. It is a fragile bill, a bill that dynamises not only the previous insurance, not just himself, but the insurance system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u233	Now Mrs Vetta Calliope has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the insurance bill that is currently taking place in Parliament, despite the misleading references that are heard about alleviations and increases, adversely affects, with few exceptions, all the insured and pensioners in the country. The creation of a false reality is a second nature for the Government of New Democracy. On national issues, the refugee, the economy, tax, security, labour, the country records continuous falls in measurements, in credibility and perspective, while the government's hampers create an ideal world where citizens applaud the government for its achievements. However, despite the fact that the media mechanism that delights the achievements of the government continues to provide its services, the first breaches appear, as society constantly lives defiance of its expectations in a number of areas of everyday life. The same is true of the insurance bill. Communication storm, grand declarations, 'increases'. But what is the reality? Reductions for pensioners, increases in contributions to the vast majority of free professionals, gifts to high-paid people. On the first point, the reductions concern the vast majority of pensioners, as the tenth pension is cut, which reminds us that you had voted, a full pension for low incomes for eight hundred thousand and proportionally for one million seven hundred thousand other pensioners. This is a clear and undeniable attack on pensioners' pay, which will see the annual income of 2020 being lower than that of 2019. Your intentions were shown by the budget, as pension expenditure in 2020 is about EUR 200 million less than 2019. This is the concern for retired people from New Democracy. If even taking account of the dramatic reduction in the social dividend beneficiaries given in December 2019, it is now clear that New Democracy is only interested in pensioners before the elections. Furthermore, for the record, it should be reintroduced that the Minister responsible possesses a world title, not at all prosperous. It is the only Minister who has managed to abolish the thirteenth pension twice during his terms, one in the second memorandum and one today. It may come back with the same decisions because 'the memorandum was a blessing' as some of the ministers told you. Does the government, however, care about freelance professionals? The answer is that he is interested, but only in the high-paid people, to whom he provides a reduction in contributions, thereby creating an excess for those who can be channelled, for example, to private insurance. With a two-tier fleet for the New Democracy Government, since the high-paid are favouring but also increasing the potential clientele for private insurance. To be a little more specific. The main content of the change in insurance contributions is to increase the minimum contributions by about 20%. Therefore, nine out of ten free professionals will pay increased contributions, which will further reduce their availability of income, which is already reduced after a number of measures, such as PPC's increases from 1 September, which is from 13% to 20%. This is also the concern for freelance professionals. Let me remind you that the linking of a declared income to insurance contributions was a constant request from the free traders, because they were caught in high contributions, with broken incomes, due to the policies of the New Democracy and the PASOK. Thus, the citizens were unable to pay their contributions, so that they lost access to the good of health and the funds had no resources. It was a vicious circle that ended definitively with the SYRIZA government and the income connection - which brought an end to the problem. At the same time, we must constantly remember that he gave in difficult times full access to hospitals two and a half million unemployed and insecure fellow citizens. It was also a government that built the FBI and gave life to the insurance system, while, as evidenced by official evidence, it accelerated the awards of gentlemen and subsidiary pensions that they had placed in 2015. I should like to return to the issue of those who are injured by the new insurance policy and add that apart from the free traders, farmers are also losing, since they will have to pay at least EUR 2021 100 a year more than they have paid to date. Finally, one category is affected by the legislative initiatives of the New Democracy Government which, because of the reduction in employers' contributions to OAED, will have access to less funds for employment programmes. Already in 2020, the Agency has a lower budget of 240 million, which makes it difficult for those who remain outside the labour market. It turns out here that most of the better paid jobs that you had promised beforehand concern the Golden Boys that you hire inexpensively and with increased wages. Finally, I want to make a reference to the replacement system which affects retired people with heavy and overweight feelings. In western Macedonia, an area of high manufacturing activity and workers in dangerous and unhealthy work, there is a large proportion of pensioners who worked in difficult conditions, in mines, ore and heavy manufacturing activities. These people with twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine years of dangerous work are now left out of your plans for the pension replacement rate, which applies only to those who have more than this limit. This unfair provision must be immediately corrected and the beneficiaries incorporated into the same scheme as other pensioners. That is why I am tabling an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, now the Prime Minister, along with Mr Hatzidakis, will stop production in western Macedonia as they progress towards a desecrated degree. So, since economic activity will be minimized in the region and slow death will occur, there will be no problem for future pensioners and there will be no workers, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u235	You didn't tell us about the ecology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u236	We'll tell you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u237	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u238	I propose that the bill should be voted against because it is unfair and ineffective, because it will restore the insurance system to a downward spiral, with delays in payments or inability to pay, and will create problems of survival in the funds. I also propose that it be voted against because it deprives millions of pensioners of a third pension, a pension which is absolutely essential for restoring the injustices that have taken place over all the years of the crisis. I propose that it be voted against, finally, because it reproduces all the stereotypes of neoliberal thinking, as it premiums the high-paid against the vast majority of workers. We will never consent to these kind of resource transfer plans. This is our main difference and will never change. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and running, forty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra and from the High School of Tournas Lasithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou Diamandou from the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u240	Are the workers and pensioners right to react to the insurance abortion? Are there not similar reactions in France for a long time? And that's hopeful. But insurance is about every man's life. And especially here, it is known to us that the greatest robbery that has become over time is the snatching of the contributions of workers and retired people from the urban state and its governments. More than 108 billion have been removed with various legislative tools and unfounded excuses, povertying massively millions of people, who have been paying a life. That's why no word says! What are you going to do first? The funds reserves at the banks were almost off-balance, when inflation exceeded 20 units, ensuring bankers cheap money to lend it, but expensively? Or should insurance contributions to the stock exchange gambling be played to feed the business groups warmly in cash? But the biggest ribbon was the 50% haircut. They grabbed half the reserves. The funds have literally been cleared to have after the alibi of the growth in the years of work to the deep ages, the increase in insurance contributions, the drastic reduction in pensions and job distractions are condemned to poverty. One more hit comes with this bill. On the one hand, it simulates that the previous pension laws have been smashed. And with the analogy study today, we continue to smash pensions and insurance benefits. In particular, the Brutsis Act - because there is continuity in the government's reinsurance policy - promotes: firstly, the further reduction in pensions that is growing over time. Secondly, it increases the retirement thresholds for the new generation - which will live within uninsured and opportune work - to 70 years. Thirdly, it reduces employers', insurance contributions to the benefit of entrepreneurs. Fourthly, it reduces state funding, which is limited to the minimum. Basically, the State gradually abandons the support of any public social security. This reduces further pensions that had thirty years of work and downwards. When part- and temporary work is predominant among young people, when will these people be 30 years old? At the same time, a number of other provisions of the Katorugalo law are maintained, which affect even the most vulnerable social groups, which are truly cruel and inhumane! It is provocative, therefore, that you be grievously mock and propaganda about pension increases, when in the state budget expenditure is reduced by EUR 220 million. You continue where the SYRIZA government stopped and you complete the crime by privatising the insurance system. The model is well known. It's that of the three pillars of dictator Pinochet. That's what you want to do, because that's what the capital wants. It is attractive for the employer, since it is exempted from the obligation to return part of the stolen goodwill through the social security contributions. And then you talk to us about the viability of the insurance policy! At the same time, you are ensuring a new profitable sector for capital. They are the private insurance companies that undertake to manage the contributions. They know what they will get every month but they are not bound or guaranteed the amount of pensions that they will have to pay in the future to the insured. But the professional funds are also a form of gambling supported by the deported majority of the GFCM. This is also the big overthrow attempted by insurance. And, of course, it will affect everyone. The consequences are visible to this great anti-insurance attack. The increase in the retirement age limits you call it harmonisation! And the introduction of pensionable remuneration for old and new pensioners and workers you call it the restoration of equality. What a mock! You incorporate the social nature of insurance, treat him as an economic indicator, carelessly and despising that every worker other than insurance has given his or her life and health during working life. The capital system and remuneration are the basis for the operation of private insurance. They do not serve the workers and their needs. Compensation is identical to hunger pensions, health and welfare services degradation and conflicts with the demand for workers to meet the expanded current needs. In a few words, which state and free social services are 'done'. They will only have those who have to pay. The fact is that over 50% of farmers owe contributions. They're these people uninsured! Now the insurance charges are back, with the lowest being at EUR 1,452 per year, and today they are 1,360. How, then, are you saying that insurance contributions are not increased? You're lying! However, up to EUR 10,000 net income in the rural family are currently around 80% of rural households. Hey, they can't pay those contributions! The couple, in other words, will have to pay EUR 2904, which is about 30% of the income. And then you say it's unavoidable for farmers. You're making fun of them! That's why it's an abortion and your bill is dangerous. It will increase the uninsured from economic weakness and not from choice. That's the freedom you say, freedom to poverty! Here and why it is timely, realistic and fair the JRC's proposal for public, universal, compulsory, social security to build a single social security system, including pension rights, health prevention and rehabilitation services, benefits and social welfare services. It will be a social system for all who need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Adamopoulos Angeliki from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is talking about the famous viability of the system, and it knows very well that today's even small growth rates will be very difficult to maintain. As has been said, sustainability is the result of the activation of so-called labour reserves. The proportional study predicts that they will work much more than three categories of citizens, mothers, young and old. What appears as a precondition, how exactly will the government achieve? As a professor at "Kathimerini" said, Greek women will work as long as the Danes do not have the corresponding industrial infrastructure in Denmark. We will also recall the problems of unconstitutionalism identified in its opinion by the Court of Auditors. There, therefore, it is stated that the new insurance bill keeps the trunk of the Katrugalo Law and makes only significant changes to specific provisions which had been considered unconstitutional. On the New Democracy side, the remarks made by the Plenary Assembly are not binding on the Ministry because they are of an opinion. However, it is good to remember those who call for such arguments that, when they finally resort to citizens, unions and associations in justice, the final reason for the constitutionality will once again be taken by the Court of Auditors, which, in its observations, already prescribes its future position. Moving on, two are of course the very important conclusions drawn from the insurance bill. The first is that three out of four free professionals will see the minimum contributions they pay to increase by 19% and the second is that they will see increases of about two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners, that is very few compared to the total. In other words, while the government, with its well-known communication overproductions, had created expectations for an increase in some one million pensioners and appeared to be a protector of the middle class and trademarks, ultimately the main beneficiaries are either the large incomes that can afford to pay the high insurance scales, or the already high wages and high pensioners with a history of four decades of insurance. To be understood by numbers, of the two million five hundred and fifty thousand of pensioners, the two million three hundred thousand will receive nothing more. So the same will continue to receive more than nine out of ten pensioners. Of the approximately 10% that ultimately benefits, large increases of over EUR 150 and up to EUR 250 will receive really few, namely those with monthly earnings of over EUR 3,000 or EUR 3,500 and a minimum of forty years of insurance. What remains for the vast majority of this already a little 10%? Funny increases from 2 to 50 euros. All this at the same time abolishing the thirteenth pension, which must of course be more increased, as the New Democracy said when it voted, but now it is being removed from our weak fellow citizens without any compensatory benefit. For free professionals and professionals who are between twenty-five years old and fifty years old there is no incentive to choose higher classes of insurance, because even if they are able to pay them - which is extremely difficult and uncertain - no one can guarantee them that the pension today will eventually be paid in the future when they decide to leave work. You reiterated several times that the oldest schemes gave an incentive to early retirement. Does your draft law not make the same secret gift to all pensions for those who leave until 2024, even with less than thirty years of insurance? So, to speak again with numbers, for three more years after 2021 of the Katrugalo Law, you will be extending the more favourable adjustment, but on the basis of annual inflation rather than the wage-change index. In other words, those who leave until 2024, even with twenty-eight or twenty-nine years of insurance, receive a minimum bonus of EUR 36 to 50 per month, otherwise they would not take it, or would be significantly smaller. You reduce the penalty for pensioners who continue to work at 30% of the current 60%. Really, how many jobs will young people lose from retired people who can more easily work at the same time? So, are we going to see again a new wave of blue retired people? All serious insurance systems are based on the assumption that part of third-age and pensioners' support burdens are borne by younger generations and that this is a socially coherent policy. So, this good practice, why are you throwing it in the can of the unusable? What reversal of Brain Drain are we talking about when the presumption of more productive people aged twenty-five to fifty are the main losers of the system? What good are you going to attract when instead of safe working environment and employers' responsibility, are you motivating the block and precariousness? The government speaks flatteringly of the supposedly absolute freedom that gives free professionals and traders free to choose their own insurance category, but it is at least ironic to speak of absolute freedom when the only thing that their actual income allows them is to choose the minimum category. Is it realistic to propose an increase of 19% in their minimum insurance contributions? Have their incomes increased accordingly? Is this what the economics and the analysis you are doing from the tax data show us? What should they first cover with the fall in taxation on incomes of up to EUR 10,000? The rents of their homes and offices and shops which have also been launched, or the increased insurance contributions that you disconnect them completely unacceptable to annual net income? The vast majority of all these young people, young sciences and professionals will choose the lowest category, because she can afford to pay. So what the social security system needs is to strengthen its financing with main donor employment relationships, secure placement of reserves, while constitutional, social and politically required is the introduction of an exceptional tax burden in favour of social security as an indirect tax, for example on VAT for enterprises, especially those who violate labour legislation, on alcohol, on cigarettes, on insurance products, on health care expenditure, even on high incomes in the context of the system's redistributive operation, also on gambling and on environmentally polluting operations. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, today you are laying the sad foundations so that in 15 to 30 years we will be a low-pension society. With the change of model you propose in the medium to long term, most Greeks will find it difficult to live with dignity and the occupants will be even stronger and it is a great pity that the New Democracy today triumphs for this prospect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. Now Mr Papaliou George has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the communication storm of the government and its friendly media about a allegedly general increase in pensions and hence to enhance the income of all pensioners is not related to the content of this bill, which is imported under the state of false reports, announcements, promises made by the New Democracy in anti-election and post-election, even during the debate on the bill and the committees and the plenary session. The unilateral and biased approach and the pension insurance issue stem from one of the EUR 200 million reduction in the expenditure on pensions for the 2020 budget in relation to that for 2019. The Minister even described this decline as a positive development, obviously on the basis of the neoliberal concept that social expenditure in general is not a developmental one, but is a barbaric one for growth. It also results from the abolition of the permanent thirteenth pension. I would remind you - and I repeat for once - that the thirteenth pension was introduced by Law 4611/2019 as a permanent measure. I am obliged to read the article 120 of this law, which has been passed - and I would remind you again - by the New Democracy. I read by word: “To the beneficiaries of the main pension due to old age, disability and death... it is granted from 2019 and for every subsequent year...”, Minister, “... thirteenth pension”. You have also voted for this, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer in a few words to the analogy study accompanying this bill. The government claims that the average annual pension is reduced in relation to the current insurance system for this year and for the following years until 2040 according to the tables contained therein. In other words, the evidence submitted by the government itself confirms what has long been alleged in the new insurance bill, the vast majority of retired persons will have a loss of annual income and the picture of generalised increases given by the Government is factual. The increase in pensions, through the increase in the rate of replacement, for those who work for up to thirty years and have a very high wage, concerns a small minority of pensioners, since it is well known that the vast majority of workers will never reach so many years of work and insurance. Moreover, these increases are linked to the relevant recent decisions of the Council of State, pending, I would remind you of the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State to be heard in the pilot trial procedure and to claims made by pensioners for the period 2012-2018. As regards pensioners before 2016, the expected increases are accounting, since they are absorbed by the personal difference of the Katorugalo Law that the rapporteur of the New Democracy described as a "Syrian caricature" and which he still maintains in this draft law. In addition, the linkage of the level of insurance contributions with income is abolished, thus increasing insurance contributions for 85% of the professions. The minimum scale is up by 20%, from EUR 185 to EUR 220. In this context, the proportional and hence fair distribution of the insurance burdens provided by the constitutionally-established principle of equality which concerns the distribution of all public burdens and not just tax burdens is abolished. Under the bill, the income of EUR 80,000 pays the same minimum insurance contribution as that of EUR 8,000. This is a policy of reverse redistribution. We insist that we say so. The public social security system is consciously being undermined for the benefit of private insurance companies. High incomes with the free choice of being subject to any ‘class’, even the lowest, are exempt from the obligation to pay high insurance contributions, so that the corresponding amounts can be directed towards private insurance. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system is inextricably linked to the labour market, to the type, to the stability and the duration of labour relations and to the level of pay for work. Sustainable insurance system can only be available in a workplace where workers' rights are guaranteed. The New Republic's policy of deregulation of labour relations, maladministration of collective autonomy and collective labour agreements, downgrading of the APRD, encouragement of infraction in the labour market, prosecution against trade unions, overall interventions against wage labour, undermine the public social security system. In contrast to the policy of SYRIZA, the public insurance system is strengthened by supporting labour, reducing unemployment, undeclared and enslaved work, restoring collective autonomy, extending sectoral collective labour agreements that lead to increases in remuneration, measures to protect workers. I would remind you that the regulations introduced by the SYRIZA Government to justify redundancies as well as the introduction of the obligation of contractors and subcontractors to pay the wages of contract workers were abolished by your Government, Minister. Also the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the subordinated and the proposal for a law to further increase the minimum wage by 7.5% in 2020 and 7.5% in 2021, was rejected by the Government of New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, unfortunately you are the people, you are lying, you are pretending and pretending to be cheating. But the lie has short feet. With the lies you said in the election and still say after-elections, sow winds and reap storms. This is reflected in today's events on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. The storms, the fruits of your neoliberal policy will also reap them in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u245	Thank you. The floor is now held by Mrs Canelley Gaflagles from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u246	Call me Lianna, Mr. President. Carnations don't even remember me, my mother, who doesn't live.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u247	Excuse me. I did it to remember you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u248	You did so for formal reasons and for reasons of courtesy, but most of the colleagues with their little ones are even in parentheses. He smells my name. I don't have a problem. I'm just not used to hearing it. I'm joking, and I'm guessing these fourteen seconds you'll give it to me. Have you made a calculation? Mr. Brutsis is always very cool. He's always very cool and very optimistic. I know he's cool because he chews gum. I imagine he's a smoker who quit smoking, and that's how he has enough money, or I can't imagine. Chewing gum. I hope it is from cigarette cutting, because anyone who cut the cigarette ensures about the increase that will take from the big increases in your pension. I'm not an economist. I don't know high math. I just know math. To fill out nine thousand brands both with the previous system and with the European Union, and with the way in which industrial relations have changed on average, as parttime work has been generalised, you need sixty years of working life with an average of fifty days a year. Part-health, part-time, partial breathing. It's all a few. Partial pension. You only pay tax advance. No one gives you an advance of life. A thousand when you're born in the mother and that's what the state cleaned up. Two grand. Moms will start making eight and nine children each to get 18,000 euros more than an average good annual income of the middle class. You came here, you went up on the Stepma after compared to the previous ones, with the next ones, developing the idea that the safety you bring us is steel, granite. People will feel sure about their ages. No matter how funny your way is, SYRIZA set him up, no matter how humorous Mr. Chakalotos does. That sense of humor is black. The insurance company is black. People have accepted, parties and ideologies you have accepted the labour market to count the worker only as a cost. So, in order to increase profits, we have to balance my allegedly both contributions and remuneration, the age on average of the two candidates of the Republican party and the democratic party in America. One is a billionaire seventy - eight years old and the other is a billionaire seventy - seven years old. They have a pension problem? I'm going crazy. What does a doctor who leaves the university have to do with a doctor who can, after sixty-seven or seventy-seven, go to take any place, in any private sector, with Grandpa Thanasis, who is ninety-year-old, has made his eighty-six request to be retired and tell him that he has to wait for e-retirement or be sure by 2023? I mean, ninety-three. And all this is innovative, it's great stuff, it's fantastic! Go and tell them where out? Where are you going outside to tell them someone needs to celebrate? Are you negotiating the withdrawal of crumbs? So if the crumbs were milky or if the crumbs were a little more colorful, like your badge, these crumbs cover the concept of insurance? What did you both accept? Anti-efficiency. You'll do it, he says, attractive. He's going to invest. So he's gonna do what? Will he fund and fund funds with his old age, sickness and death? Man will also work from what he doesn't have, which is marginal, especially some, precariously hanging by the employer, not covered by any contract, not even have a place to stand, because he has to move wherever they require, there are holes to find a job, and under these conditions it will be attractive and invested. He'll choose. Of course someone can choose. Of course he can choose. It may be seventy years old, have sugar and get a pension and have decided on either sixty - five or fifty - five, which may have sugar, an example I say, to eat lentils, macaroni, beans, bread. What's to eat of all this? The doctor can tell him he needs to eat vegetables. What's he gonna eat? Organic pumpkins? The free market? Organic pumpkins are going to eat? Will he be interested in the environment and investment? Of course, he'll be interested. The only way he's interested is to be fertile ashes an hour ago. There's no other way to offer someone today as soon as he's aged. Seventy-five, seventy-five, should be working, and you tell him that you'll give him the comfort of getting something out of retirement to be ticked. But are you presenting this as a release? Oh, no. He's a humble pensioner. And because it's a small pension, you let him work. Did you ever get black profits? You admitted a Memorandum and the other two Memorandums. After three memos, can you tell me what damage the big capital has suffered in Greece? Is his pension at stake? So I don't go crazy. Oh, I'm sorry, some villas have been sold. They didn't do nursing homes. If they were good people, they'd be nursing homes. You're approaching insurance instead of a right as a charity. "Take some crumbs." You're talking about weak ones. Is the man, who has withstanded his sixty-seven, working like the dog? Is someone weak who refuses to work until sixty-seven in the building? Or the ammunition? Are you going to tell the ammunition it's going to work? The heavy and unhealthy things you brought to your measure, the hours you brought them to your measure, the stability you brought to your measure. What are your measures? Cork eye doesn't work. What are you gonna say? Is there a social state? There is no social state. There is an interest in a state of insurance. This is the social state. Now it's no good, we're throwing a memorial away. Now it's no good, we're throwing a meter. We're also putting an indirect tax on that. We also make a law that says "don't talk, don't talk, don't listen, nothing, don't condolences, stop them, law and order." It's over. That's right. You can exterminate. The insurance systems of recent years have only been handled by mobilisations, reactions and non-enforcement in practice. You say it's a free choice of what exactly, how you tie up the rag of a pension left to cover the nakedness of your rights, who have deprived you of those who have lost nothing at all, because the lid of the capital cities has grown up. You can't get a kid back from abroad, because here he'll have the comfort of choosing his insurance scale, and only his insurance scale is the one that makes him and he doesn't get a job. While now he will be offered the bosses' jobs or better he will become the same businessman and he will be recruiting his peers with part-time jobs with two, three hundred per month and telling them "do not care, work with me for a while, and then you will be a businessman, like me, having five other idiots working part-time two, three days a month." That's the plan. Manipulate the mass in her despair, the illusion that it's free and think it's a bad thing to feel like you worked and deserve to stay out of production a few years and breathe like a human being. Oh, no. You'll risk if you die today or die tomorrow with yourself, your insurer, your private doctor, your privacy, so you feel like you're a free man who chooses his slavery. Excuse me, this is insurance porn, because someone else owns his title is a free man who chooses his slavery. This suggests your insurance systems and if not all of this is overthrown, you will only have the story of little as zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. Mr Haimaras Themistoklis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, the government is attempting a huge reform in the pillar of social security. I am convinced that dealing with such essential issues that jeopardise the future of the citizens and of the country requires understanding and realism. Sadly, however, today is the result of all the speeches that the Qualified Opposition has not understood it. I'll never forget the day I had to pay the EFKA debt note after the implementation of the Katrugalo Law. No consistent taxpayer will forget that day, as will no unconscious taxpayer. The conspicuous like me will never forget the day when the state told him that he made a mistake that he did not steal from the state, that he had to evade in 2015 in order not to fall into the light of the Katrugalo Law, that in order to survive in the crisis he had to steal the tax, because in the end SYRIZA did not simply chase the consistent taxpayers, he did not simply chase the free professionals who were working, rewarded and of course declared the full remuneration for the tax. He went after the cowards and rewarded the tax evasion. He rewarded the essence of those who said ‘EUR 80 with proof, EUR 40 without proof’. Unfortunately, he didn't stay there. Those who did not pay tax were the beneficiaries of the vouchers, those who were free of charge their children to the nurseries, received social benefits and of course did favourable loan arrangements when the consistently free professionals, private and public employees, at the same time, were trying to meet their obligations. That was the situation you delivered, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. The state that rewarded the non-consensuals and chased the consistent ones. You chased that part of the population that supported the Greek economy during the time of the crisis, those entrepreneurs who remained in the crisis in our country and did not emigrate to favourable neighbouring tax havens. In Greece on 7 July we undertook to resurrect the message sent to you by the Greek people last July was deafening. Sadly, however, you didn't get it and come here today and move our finger. You are addressing Members who have dealt with the commons only to overthrow this injustice, this attack on the middle class. You are addressing citizens who have not endured your experiments and turned your back. And this is what a market man, who has been trying for the last fifteen years in the center of Lamia, has seen all those entrepreneurs who chose you in 2015 to turn your back and support the New Democracy. In the past 12 years, every citizen, worker or retired person has experienced the insecurity of work, the increase in his contributions and the simultaneous loss of benefits, has experienced successive reductions in pensions, and has had to accept the experimentation of the memorandums. This concern and the insecurity of citizens is at last dealt with by the new bill that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis brings today after twelve memorial years. For the first time, there will be no reductions in pensions. On the contrary, there are increases. The aim of the new insurance bill is to restore justice for all those who have worked most, unlike the provisions of the Katrugalo Law. Pension returns are strengthened to create strong incentives to stay in the system for thirty-five and forty years, thereby ensuring its viability combined with the entry of new insured persons into the system. And how is the viability of the system ensured? For the first time, the Government has submitted a new insurance reform, accompanied by two scientific and fully documented proportionate studies. What is typical of the new insurance bill, ladies and gentlemen, is simplicity, flexibility and freedom. The new system is structured completely differently from the previous ones. The amounts of the contributions are fully decoupled from working time, income declared and minimum wage. The six categories of insurance are free to choose for the insured person, who can change them at the beginning of each year according to his planning. For all of us free professionals this option is in many cases salvation. You should finally stop, as far as free professionals are concerned, this specula. The vast majority of free professionals and self-employed will benefit from the combination of tax and insurance. Do not pretend that you are not aware of the EUR 1.300 resulting from the tax reduction of up to EUR 10,000, which exceeds any charge. In the field of pensions, through the recommendation of e-ECA, we seek greater administrative and organisational integration of the insurance system since its establishment. It is a unique project through which major economies of scale will be achieved and, of course, pensions will be reduced. One simple example: to date three different people from three different bodies have been dealing with a pensioner for the lady, the supplementary pension, but also with the single pensioner. After the creation of the e-ECA, a single employee will set up and prepare a single file for each pensioner. Ladies and gentlemen, the Katorugalou Act has produced disastrous results, has consciously imposed unpleasant contributions to free professionals, kneeling and literally discouraged a productive and creative part of the Greek economy, while at the same time strengthening tax evasion. It is time to redesign social security, based on economic sustainability and social efficiency. It is an obligation that we have to deal with the new generation that comes, and of course to that generation that he has offered, lifted the burdens and saw her labor lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u251	Thank you. Mr. Athanasios Ljutas from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Canelle and to say that I am Thanasis, I am forty-seven years old and I do not know with the existing insurance system when I am going to retire. I'm paying for more than twenty years of security. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the elections of 7 July, the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis became the first political force for a very important reason. For the reason that he prepared and presented a comprehensive development proposal for our country and for the Greeks, a proposal he found an ally for the Greek society. It was a proposal for a better future, for a future of growth and prosperity, which could come through the divisions and through the break with the pathogens of the past. The vote on the new insurance reform is a decisive step in achieving our goal. It is therefore necessary to understand that the new insurance reform is part of the great solution, a critical solution, both for sustainable and stable development and for the undisturbed cohesion of our society. The importance of a social security system is too high. This importance refers to both economic and social matters. The wrong policies of past years, and in particular the devastating policies in the governance of SYRIZA, have created major and serious problems, both in our economy and in our society. An erroneous social security policy increases public debt, destroys the rewarding nature of the system, disturbs society's confidence with the insurance system itself, but also with the state, distorts insurance consciousness and ultimately destroys the objective of solidarity between generations. The truth is that the fiscal crisis of the last decade revealed distortions, threw light, showed shortcomings and mistakes, and eventually we all understood the origin and cause of critical damage. The social security system in our country, as it had been formed and operated for too many years, has brought a large part of the responsibility for this situation. The situation deteriorated dramatically then on government SYRIZA. The Katorugalou law, which assimilated the social security system by tax system, dramatically enclosed the most productive part of our society. He created a tax evasion, increased "black labour", increased unemployment through increased contributions, deprived income, removed the incentive and eventually deprived a strong workforce from our country after extinguished hundreds of thousands of Greeks abroad. In short, he also hurt our economy and society. With the Katorugalos law and the excessive taxation of everything SYRIZA's target was only the collection and bleeding. Production and development have been hampered or rather become the worst enemy. Today, and after a long period of consultation, a new day is coming. We come here, discuss and vote for the new insurance reform. It's a reform - incision. It is a reform that is coming to shape fair rules, which will restore confidence and recompense, which will strengthen entrepreneurship and support growth. Beyond everything else is an insurance reform that founds and confirms the prospect of fair and sure social security for all Greeks. The new system is a fair system. It respects the situation and the financial problems of thousands of Greeks and gives substantial solutions. So we are moving in this direction and I am helping the workers, the self-employed, the professionals and the farmers. It reduces insurance contributions, increases replacement rates, increases supplementary pensions, creates freedom and flexibility. In particular, six categories of insurance contributions are created for the profession. Every professional will be able to choose every year what category he wants to belong to. In particular, this is a more favourable regulation for farmers and farmers, as even lower levels of contributions are introduced. Greek farmers and farmers with the SYRIZA government lived dark days. The agricultural profession itself was jeopardized by extinction. Today our government's effort to strengthen work in the field and in a livestock farm is critical and invaluable. Throughout the situation, the new insurance bill is a frontal ally for development. This is very obvious and through the most important regulations, such as regulations on parallel insurance. Reduced contributions for young entrepreneurs, incentives for continuing work and post-retirement. At the same time, the main aim of the new law is to strengthen vulnerable groups, restore the reduction of the contributions of mothers returning to work, the possibility of pensioning families with disabled members, the solution in the area of widows' pensions, direct calculation and the rapid award of e-ECA pensions. The digital pension, which beats red tape and the huge waiting time it put thousands of pensioners hostage, shows that our government is tracking the problems and directly gives the right and effective solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, on the road to great stable and sustainable development we need strong institutional bases, we need strong growth institutions, institutions capable of supporting work and production and strong institutions that will at the same time ensure for the weak Greek. So we must shield the future of the Greek family, the future of production and the future of work. That is why we are working directly for a sustainable insurance system. A sustainable and rewarding insurance system will continuously reduce its dependence on the state koruna, have a balanced contribution balance and payroll, save and protect, while at the same time being a first-line ally in the big growth struggle. So we are moving in this bill today. The objective of the sustainable insurance system is key, is the essential solution and the crucial condition for the sustainable development and sustainable prosperity of all Greeks. We need to understand it and understand it well, because it is the only truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today's procedure will be completed with Mr Bubas Konstantinos, which is the '51' number on the list. We are now continuing with Mr Kalamatiano Dioni - Charalambos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on insurance cannot be cut off from the government's policies for the last seven months. There is a continuing political downgrading of work and the social state, and it shows how enthusiastic you have been in the neoliberal proposals, it shows how much you choose to bring back to the country the disastrous policies of the International Monetary Fund, while we are out of the question. It is not by chance that your contributions to the deterioration of industrial relations are not at all random. And I would remind you that you rushed night to abolish the right reason for dismissal, which means easier and more redundancies. You have degraded the Labour Inspectorate so that quality controls are not carried out in the workplace. Even in the 2010-2014 period, we haven't had any redundancies in the banks, now we have. We also have trade union persecutors, threats, wage cuts and other provocative phenomena, which are now a daily life for workers. Even in the years of the memorandum, we did not have such restrictions on collective bargaining and the recourse to arbitration. What does that mean? It means lower wages for our employees. But in conditions of normality the deception of the Greek people on your part is monumental. How can one explain your withdrawal to the issue of minimum wages? What did you say in election and post-election for some time? You said you'd raise the minimum wage to twice the growth rate. Now you've forgotten all this and you say you can't increase the minimum wage, because SYRIZA raised 11%. These assumptions, these denials expose you irreparably. As a result of all this, we have new armies of unemployed people. The OAED data are revealing. We have ten thousand young unemployed between December 2019 and January 2020, ten thousand lost jobs with your signature. But what does this have to do with the insurance debate? They're in a direct relationship. You know that for each unemployment-increasing unit, EVA has a reduction of 30 million a year. Such a reduction also has the effect of not increasing the minimum wage. At the rate you scan working relations once again, it is a matter of time for the ECA to come up with new losses and to require new measures and pension cuts. That's what you're gonna tell us. Are you really counting on all this? Have you calculated, Minister, your toxic policy in the assumptions of the proportionate study? I guess not. But let us look at matters in turn. You are changing the mission of the social security system: from decent social protection to the sustainability of the ECA and the adequacy of pensions. More dignity, more adequacy. You're reducing the income for the vast majority of pensioners. We are listening to the Minister and to the New Democracy colleagues telling us both in the committees and all day long, rather than tomorrow and tomorrow, they will tell us that we are supposedly no reductions in pensions, that there has been no allegedly a third pension, you are eliminating it. Until recently you said you'd keep it. After you voted for it, you will respect it. Now you retreat to it, you're extinguishing it. But as long as you say that, we will read the law, we will read Article 120 of Law 4611/2019, which fully restored the thirteenth pension for eight hundred thousand pensioners, those who received up to EUR 500, and the rest. The fact is that two and a half million pensioners received the thirteenth pension and would continue to receive it if you did not repeal it by your own law. I therefore read Article 120 n.4611/2019: ‘Previous pension beneficiaries due to old age, disability, death, pension beneficiaries and invalidity pension beneficiaries shall be granted from 2019 and for every 10th year thereafter.’. As long as you say that there has been no, we will read this to you, all of our colleagues. And paragraph 3 states: ‘The third pension shall be paid in May of each year’. And you voted for it. If it didn't exist, why do you abolish it? Keep the law and continue to pay. You abolished it in 2012 with Law 4093, abolished it for the second time now. That's the truth. You can't fake reality. Of course, you're confessing to reductions in pensions. And I call on you to read the budget that you voted for 2020. There is provision for pension expenditure less than 200 million. I also invite you to read the analogy study submitted by the Minister, page 43. What's he saying here? An annual pension with the presentation of Law No.4387/2016 of the evil for you, Katrugalos. Well, 2020 with n.4387 annual pension 9,809 euros. In your scenario, the new law that is supposed to have no reductions, but has reductions, see 9.681. Such reductions are also for all years until 2070. Read these, then, and stop falsifying the reality again. You are giving rises to basic pensions for minimum pensioners. You are well aware that the vast majority of workers, 72% of them retired with less than thirty years of work. It is therefore impossible to reach thirty-five to forty-five years of insurance, as the rotation of employers, the delayed entry into the production process, flexible forms of employment dominate the labour jungle you want. Unemployment also remains at very high rates, although we managed to reduce it by 10 points from what you delivered us. The benefit of the infamous increases in pensions will not exceed seventy thousand, of course it is far from the figure of one million said by the Minister to see increases. You also increase contributions for 85% of the professions by increasing the lower scale to 20%. Just mathematics: from EUR 185 currently the lowest contribution is up to EUR 220. So, up to 20% increase. The decoupling of the income levy harms small incomes, the vast majority of the free professionals, up to 12,000 euros income is damaged with your own insurance and only the few with the very high incomes you serve. You give the opportunity to pay the same minimum contribution as the one who earns 70,000 euros a year as the one who wins 7 000 euros a year and that is what you call healthy competition. This is a distortion of competition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, you are shrinking the area of public insurance, opening the way to private insurance companies, as a minimum contribution also means a minimum pension. You are therefore introducing the institution of the pension poors, i.e. the fifty pensioners. You also introduce a 30% reduction in pensions for pensioners who worked before L.4387. There was no reduction by the law of Katrugalo to the pensioners who worked before this law. Now enter a 30% charge in their pension. Finally, Minister, with our amendment, we propose an increase in supplementary pensions to sufferers from heavy and usually incurable illnesses. Since the budget is improved, we must support the heavy suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u255	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, just a minute, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u257	You've already exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u258	In conclusion, therefore, your bill is a rough stitching of provisions. It damages the vast majority of pensioners to favour very large incomes. Do redistribution in favour of those with less need for social protection. We, ladies and gentlemen, are tabling a coherent plan, which supports the public universal redistributive compulsory social security system, not in terms of cutbacks, but in terms of dignity for pensioners and workers. We are with them, you stay with your neoliberal loneliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ypsilantis Vassiliou - Nikolaos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying to Mr Kalamatiano, who is well-founded, serious and good colleague, that this infamous third pension you gave it when you were now sure you were leaving, retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u261	But you voted for it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u262	...and you left the country in the ruins received by the rule of Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u263	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u264	...and of course an insurance system that our country has to deal with and offer to the Greeks great security.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u265	That's new! Nobody says it, not even the ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u266	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u267	Calm down, calm down! I know the truth is bothering you. You've learned to live in delusion, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u268	No, but tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u269	However, the story ended. And bad tale is happy to end for the Greek people, definitively and irrevocably, Mr Kalamatiane. The country along with the major economic crisis had entered a deeply explosive period of insecurity of its insurance system. And while since the mid-1980s, all the countries of the European Union have been engaged in taking measures to safeguard their insurance pension systems, we have, unfortunately, left things in their luck, with the light of the effort that had been made at the time of the reign of the late Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis and - to be fair - left the period of Professor Giannitsis's office. Unfortunately, the project on SYRIZA, with the infamous Kakrugalou law, only problems and dead ends created to Greeks insured. The complexity of this legislation, the number of anti-motors who did not encourage the stay in it, which was punishing and having a horizontally negative impact on employment. Fortunately, the introduction of the new insurance bill, Mr Minister, is accompanied directly and with a full specific proportional study on main and supplementary pensions. It confirms its viability and thus provides security to each Greek and Greek until 2070. Here too, as we ensure - and I am sure that the provisions that we shall be voting on are guaranteed, as well as the studies we have - it is also the first one that, whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen, after twelve years, does not bring any reduction in pensions. Under the new law, those who have been insured for 30 years will have a much higher pension and, of course, the pension pay of all insured persons will be calculated on the basis of the earnings of 14 months. The new system is simple and innovative and is mainly expected to be constructive, with its main features being its complete decoupling from chronic insurance and known classes of the past. From the increase in the minimum wage, it introduces low contributions for all new entrants in the production process for the first five years of their working life. It provides flexibility, because at the beginning of each year the insured person can choose any category, either up or down, and as long as he wishes. The primary sector will be treated with sensitivity through a special - and dealt with through this legislation - a favourable and protective framework. It is my bet that Greece should enter an insurance policy which every citizen will receive at the end of his life a decent pension and not a false allowance, as you have unfortunately sought. The insurance system also goes to a new era, as for the first time a single national insurance institution is created, e - National Social Security Agency, which is part of the Single Insurance and Insurance Fund. Thus, we will have organisational and administrative integration, with the accounting autonomy of the main pension, subsidiary insurance and one-off provision. As a result, the digitisation of all functions will be achieved. Innovation, then, is the digital transformation of our insurance system. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] With the introduction of the digitalisation of all social security functions, all pension and one-off insurance providers are integrated and public officials, officials and military staff are integrated into the single pension system, in view of the principles of transit and inter-branch solidarity, on the basis of Articles 4(5) and 25(4) of the Constitution, and of course the necessary interventions are made in compliance with the Court of Auditors’ case-law on the special scheme. With the adoption of the new insurance bill there will be increases in their supplementary pension for those who had cuts in the summer of 2016, because they then had a sum of more than EUR 1.300, increases that will be mid-weight at around EUR 99,57. This reform will extend for the first time the scope, on a voluntary basis, of supplementary pension to all non-employed persons. In a systematic and methodical way, we are preparing to deal with the last pathogen of the insurance system we have had. Our SYRIZA government had inherited over a million outstanding masters, supplementary pensions and single widow’s pensions, recalculations that had never been made. With the reform of the digital pension "ATLAS" we respond to the problem. I'm closing, Mr. President. The aim is for all Greeks to enjoy almost immediately and without delay their retirement. For all these reasons, therefore, I am voting in favour of the insurance bill by Minister Brutsi and the Mitsotakis Government, which is another immediate achievement of one of the most important objectives set by the New Democracy in an election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u270	Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, because he referred to me, can I answer for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u272	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u273	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u274	Okay, soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform Mr Ypsilant, because he referred to my name, for this: what you say about ruins and supposedly burnt land, neither the Prime Minister nor the Ministers. So please be informed why this is not a New Democracy claim. He's new. You say it for the first time. For how one can speak of ruins, when a country was delivered with full funds, 37 billion security pillows, reduced unemployment by 10 points, regulated debt, 11 quarters of development, restored social state....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u276	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u277	All right, Mr. Kalematian.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u278	I appreciate you, but I hate to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u279	You have delivered, with empty funds, 25% GDP loss and 27% unemployment. These are the ruins.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u280	Good, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u281	You still believe them, and you're still talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u282	Mrs Gara Anastasia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, it was not on personal grounds because it was not personal. Mr President, I would like the floor on personal grounds, because my name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u284	That's not personal. There's no staff. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with an issue that is not included in this bill, but concerns thousands of pensioners. This is a particularly important issue, and it refers to thousands of farmers and rural women, beneficiaries of widow's pensions, who, even though they normally pay their insurance contributions and are in agricultural production, lose the compensation. This issue came up after a relevant OPEKEPE circular and thus these beneficiaries are not only excluded from the compensation, but there is also the possibility that they may be invited to reimburse money they have already received in the past. I would point it out, Minister, because it is extremely unfair farmers and rural women from mountainous or remote or disadvantaged regions, because they have received or received widower's pensions, because they are not necessarily aided, while they are still in production. Immediately, the relevant ministers should take the necessary steps to change the cycle concerned and to resolve this issue. With regard to insurance Brutsis, an insurance policy with which nine out of ten pensioners and nine out of ten free workers will have a loss of income and a burden on their pockets, while Mr Brutsis has been on the channels for the last time and for which he has given rise to increases through the channels of pensioners, at the same time unfortunately he has signed regulations that have reduced pensions and increased contributions. These signatures came, with today's bill being discussed in plenary as the new insurance bill. It doesn't give us any impression. After all, deception is the same as the New Democracy. May I remind you, after all, that the same government was talking about social security, at the same time as it had increased unemployment by 28% and had cut pensions by 40%. More specifically, with regard to the pensions and the cuts provided for in this bill we are debating today, firstly, the expenditure on the State Budget of 2020, which has been voted on in this Chamber, for pensions is EUR 200 million less than the corresponding year of the previous year, 2019. This option is exclusively for the New Democracy. They have not been forced by any institution to do so by any external factor. In the budget, then, we see cuts. In the statements by the officials of the New Democracy we see or hear increases. Illegal? Unreasonable. The numbers, however, speak. Secondly, we have the definitive abolition of the thirteenth pension introduced by the SYRIZA Government as a permanent measure and received about two and a half million pensioners in May last year. It is funny for New Democracy to come right now and say that the thirteenth pension never existed. I wonder: What did they vote for last May? They voted for a fantasy, so since there was never and what exactly did two and a half million pensioners receive last May when eight hundred thousand of them received an entire pension and a million seven hundred thousand received a proportionately significant part of their pension? What did they get? A fantasy that never existed? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is the second time that the same party, the New Democracy, and the same Minister, Mr Brutsi, have abolished the thirteenth pension. Even the notorious pensioner support mechanism you spoke about in the past, which would allegedly replace the thirteenth pension, is absent from this bill. But you're not just content with it. Go ahead and cut pension by 30% for retired people who work before 2016, an extremely hard and punishing provision for these pensioners. At the same time, however, you are provokingly voting for the posters of the new Republic's ministerial offices to receive both their wages and their pensions. Another arrangement, therefore, of the notorious client-in-law of the New Democracy. Moreover, move on to another hidden pension cut with the replacement rate from forty years and then fall sharply and unexplainedly from 2% to 0.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the new system of contributions is concerned, we also see here falling apart with an election account of the New Democracy, the relief of small and medium-sized businessmen and free trades, which the Government of New Democracy would bring. On the contrary, in today's bill we see the current government burdening nine out of ten free professionals, disconnecting their contributions from real income and increasing contributions by 20%. Plus 20% will pay the people with the Brutsi Act. Increases, too, will be seen by farmers in their insurance contributions. Of course, this burden is affecting the low and medium-sized incomes, unlike the high incomes in which the New Democracy once again, as usual, is causing the eye to close. By reintroducing classes, therefore, it facilitates high incomes to pay much lower contributions and thus directs huge sums to private insurance. The worst of all, of course, is that the new draft law rekindles the risk of refuelling deficits in the public social security system and we all know what comes after it: cuts and new measures. Even in supplementary pensions, however, what we actually see the New Democracy Government doing is an inappropriate redistribution to the detriment of low-pension workers. This is also demonstrated by the proportional study presented by Mr Brutsi and shows that the average annual pension is reduced for this year and for the following years until 2040. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mr Minister, unfortunately, in addition to the cuts and the burdens, the law you are bringing today also closes essential ECA services in the region, such as the IKA Orestiad, depriving citizens of basic services in the region. In conclusion, however, let me say the following. It is obvious that no insurance system, how much more like what you are presenting today, which has provoked burdens on low-pensioners, is going to step on its feet if there is no concrete plan for protecting and recovering work in the country. Already the first samples of the New Democracy are evident, with the sharp rise in unemployment in just a few months. Here we really are divided by an abyss from New Democracy, because you choose not only to deceive pensioners and insured persons, but are conscious of completely deregulation of the labour market in collective agreements, even the minimum right that every worker must have in that country. A strong public social security system requires the protection of workers' rights, strong collective agreements, increased wages and labour-intensive measures. Minister - and I close - on hospitable channels you can proudly disguise your lies and promise increases. The reality and the pocket of citizens, however, demonstrates every day the mockery and deception of the New Democracy. Thanks for the time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u286	Next speaker Mrs Brysidou Friday from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we have a new start in public social security. To judge, however, the bill, we should look at it as a whole and not criticise whether it is good or not, by taking individual articles and analyzing the drafting of a category. We need to see in total whether a bill is good or not and what things we need to focus on. First of all, a bill must be sustainable. Because, if it's not, what's the point? It must be fair that the pensioner, but also the person who pays security, feels that people of the same class with the same data will have similar pensions, be rewarding, feels every citizen takes on the basis of what he has given either contributions or years of contributions and, of course, ensure a satisfactory and decent pension. How can insurance be sustainable? First of all, by having as many years of workers as possible who will remain in their jobs and who will pay for their contributions. In order to do this, however, there should also be incentives. With this bill we put the axes and we increase the people who live in their work thirty, thirty - five, forty years. Also sustainable will be insurance when there are satisfactory contributions and this will happen when the insured person has categories to choose and choose the largest, because on the basis of this contribution he will also have a higher pension. Of course, insurance is viable when there are workers. And here is the different spirit and objectives of the New Democracy Government and our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who is investing in jobs, growth and, in this spirit, security will also be sustainable. I was wondering in some respects how colleagues find some flaws or have negative criticisms of articles in this bill. Finally, the answer is that our thinking is different. There are groups that are interested in the fascinating and temporary benefits that will satisfy the world, there will be temporary political benefits, but over time, the country will be in a bad state and insurance will not be sustainable. So on that basis, and with this data, we can see the insurance at another glance. But it's wrong. Because this insurance is investing in the future and has articles that support society. Another big chapter that has been taken into account is the tyranny of pensioners until they have been retired in recent years. Is it right for people who deal with the country's rulership to accept two and three years of abstract life, those who have sacrificed so many years in their work, to be unable to get their pensions and to be reluctant to wait? That is why measures have been taken which I consider to be very serious. First of all, from a fund, we can get the main pension, the subsidiary and the one-off offer. And with electronic retirement, which is done by collecting all the data electronically, we will be able to have pensions in a short time, which is a great offer in our society, and today I think it is one of the biggest problems. Fund associations were also made at times SYRIZA. In the way that happened, however, instead of bringing a positive result and making pensions come out quickly, we have had even more negative results. Because when the last fund would get the pensioner's pension, and IKA - IKA or IKA - TEBE or the OGA - had to ask him to answer and be late for another year and the answer was longer than it was before the fund. It is now being organised in such a way that we have the best possible benefits. Now we're going to the broad axes of individual topics. This insurance shows particular sensitivity and it cannot be overlooked that it has caught these social groups in need, such as the mothers with reduced contributions of a child, the disabled, who, if they were working on the small aid received by the diligent, the widow’s pensions, where there was a limit on the partner’s life, cannot get the pension if he is not fifty - two years old. Terrible measures have been taken in all these directions, and the social person and sensitivity have been shown here. At the same time, we have the support of the new generation, with reduced contributions in the first five years. The worker is also given the chance to pay a contribution. Has it been heard here that someone who has a lot of revenues will pay the same amount as little? But we're talking about insurance here. We're not talking about a tax system, which, depending on your income, you will pay the tax. The insurance system has caught all the sensitive aspects. He's got the axes. Clearly, if we go by and look at one - one procedure each can say its own arguments. But we cannot, where we give increases to say that this is in a small number and where they are firmly held to be affected by the world and that it is not beneficial. It's an insurance policy with a future. It's an insurance policy that doesn't reduce any pensions. He's got social sensitivities. It has paths that help growth and progress. In addition, it is not right to hear that the 15th pension was cut. It is not right for the retired, who certainly wanted some money more just before the elections and after five years of governance, to come a help near Easter, if I recall, and this is called the 15th pension. If there is respect for the retired and the elderly, you've been legislating at the beginning of your term and organizing it in such a way that it will work. In conclusion, I would like to say that, given that we are hoping for progress and development in our country and because efforts are being made in this direction, insurance is an insurance policy with a future, it is an insurance policy for our country and for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u288	Mr Zachariadis Konstantinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, it really sounds amazing in this Chamber. It's a lot of fun to think about. The previous speaker from New Democracy said that if you want - says - to legislate a thirteenth pension, you legislate it at the beginning of your term and it's all very nice. But I'm sorry, do you forget that when we took over the country's governance, there was a cent in DPRK to pay wages and pensions? We have forgotten about the recent history of the country and what an effort the Greek people have made over the years, so that today we can discuss strategies, progressive, conservative, for the richest, for the poorest, etc.Huh? Mr. Ypsilantis said earlier that you received ruins. So, a loan-rate country of 2% - which we delivered to you with the keys to Maximus, a 37 billion-dollar pillow, that was given the opportunity for your Government to give the first three weeks of 200 million relief to the rich with one million euros - is it ruins? Would you like to compare what we received on 25 January 2015? But don't stay in this. Let's go to news. It is truly amazing that in this parliamentary term, whatever legislation is coming, unfortunately, I am forced to comment on the refugee - immigration. I'm talking in all the bills about refugee immigration. And that seems to be the great success of the Mitsotakis Government. I want from this Step of the Greek Parliament to denounce unnecessarily violence against citizens in Chios and Lesvos, including MPs of SYRIZA, Andreas Michaelides and Yiannis Burnos, in Lesvos. We make you fully responsible for the eruption of the tension, violence and authoritarianism created by your deadlocked policy. It is a policy that not only solves problems, but it multiplys them. Because, unfortunately, in the refugee - immigration policy, you let the islands sink so as not to disperse political costs. To be happy with the President of ONNED Pentelis, who told us how handsome Mr Mitsotakis is. Your political executive said that there are other children the refugee and other children the Greeks. He was talking about kids these things. For you to have it, therefore, happy, that is why local communities are suffering, refugees are suffering, and immigrants are suffering. Because on this issue - and in others, but in particular on this - you have been irresponsible, unresponsible, with hunger and the country at the moment, extremist Greece, pays your obsessions, your ideals, your extremist problems - you cannot agree with your district managers, with your mayors - and your hooks. The problems of a party and a party become the country's problems. To close this section, in our view - and we repeat it all the time and repeat it all the time - the decongestion of the islands by transferring vulnerable groups of refugees and migrants to the mainland must immediately begin, to increase the administrative capacity of the Asylum Service, to ensure that the government is able to operate one rather than two reception centres on each island and to increase pressure. And here we will help for practical solidarity from all the Member States of the European Union. You know, with your fellow citizens in Europe, those who, together with you, proposed to us Mr Manfred Weber for President of the Commission a few months ago in the European elections, who closed the eye and embraced the countries of Visegrad. I come to the issue of the bill and the report by Mrs. Brysidou on how many pensions we received and how many they are today. I have in front of me a press release from the FBI. It's not a SYRIZA press release. The date is 21 June 2019. It says: On June 21, 2019, the loose end was forty-eight thousand eighty-nine pensions, while on January 1, 2015, it was sixty-eight thousand nine hundred. That's seventy thousand less. Can you proceed with this, can you do better? You should take it. But not tell us we got worse too! And everyone remembers in this country how long the pensions have been doing and what steps our own government has taken. Now, let's get to the point of the bill. It is quite clear that 90% pays 20% more insurance contributions. We agree that. There is no one who disagrees with this in the Chamber. You say, of course, that it is offset by the reduction of taxes in November. That's what you're saying. Why didn't you tell us in November? Why in November when the tax fell you celebrated - and we voted then - to come back on 25 February and get a part of this reduction back? If you said that then, neither I nor obviously my party would vote. Because you are trying to play wicked on this issue too. But people are watching and watching you. It is a trick and this, as is the story with the zero increases of PPC. Zero increases you said summer about PPC. Whoever gets PPC's card now sees how zero these increases were. I also understand, with a delay in time, that this dynamic - I admit - a tie movement was a movement which, in your opinion, concerned 10% and 10% of the largest incomes, since you agree that 90% pays 20% more. Was it our insurance perfect? Of course not. Was our own insurance written on the plates of Moses? Oh, no. Did he have any distortions? Of course it did. But this had to be corrected and not ripped off an insurance policy that brought social security to a sustainable orbit since 2016. Remember what the situation was in 2016 and really what possibilities we would have today with a progressive governance to extend a social justice net around social security. When last May we accepted the unhealthyness of the fires and the opposition and the media that the so-called 15th pension was partial from some incomes and upwards - full of the lowest, less for the highest - me at least could not think of you in less than a year. Firstly, because you voted for it. It's a law that you voted for! Secondly, Mr Vorides, in his strict style, in the glaring way he speaks, told us that measures adopted are not taken back. The Prime Minister himself said so to the IGC. Mr Brutsis, I invite you - if you like - to go and compare the pensioners' books to April 2019 and April 2020. We don't have to say out-of-date things. How much money went in April 2019 and how many people entered in April 2020 to understand the difference. As well as the poor and populous world compared how much money he received in December 2019 and how much in December 2020. The budget itself says that this year is EUR 200 million less in the budget for these expenditures. We are therefore voting against the reinsurance reform. We warn that the public and universal nature of social security is being undermined, we denounce that you are creating incentives to transfer funds to the private sector at the expense of the public sector. And we point out to the Greek people that this is a recipe for an ageing and failed neoliberalism. The Greek society deserves better and it can be better. And we're here to stand up. And when we become a majority, we should be able to justify these expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in earlier times, PASOK had introduced the term 'enlargement of the generations'. It was when the perpetrator of the case was indeed the third age. And, of course, that was not just a slogan, it also happened. And he began to give as much pensions as other social benefits and institutions of support as CAPH, such as the "Help at Home" programme and much more. But things changed along the way. Today the perpetrator of the case is the new generation. And that means that there can be no plans and reforms in the insurance system that do not take into account, not really counting young people. What we need is a reasonable balance in the insurance system. For, of course, - and this is a bitter statement - ladies and gentlemen, young people cannot today appeal to the Council of State for pensions which will take thirty years, nor can the Council of State, of course, be the body that will ultimately legislate. This role belongs to the democratically elected Parliament. And that, of course, is not a climax towards justice. It is, however, a culprit to all those who have a string of decisions of the Council of State as a bill that is supposed to be in the direction of reform, self-determined and structurally indeed - and which is supposed to be an attempt to restore the irrationalities of the previous law, the well-known Katrugalos law. Of course that's not true. And we are talking about a bill that has been advertised far more than any other government initiative so far. The Prime Minister himself had announced in an election that he would abolish the Karugalou law. And, of course, the bitter finding is that it remains in the same philosophy and logic and the law we are discussing today with the previous bill with very low rates of replacement, which lead to reductions in pensions from 18% to 15% in just some categories. In his philosophy, however, he remains exactly the same. Do you want some examples? Retired with thirty years of work with pensionable earnings of 1,000 euros under the Katrugalou Law had a pension of 648 euros, with the law we are discussing today of 648 euros, with the Law of 3863/2010 of PASOK 2010, which was also passed by Mr Brutsis and the New Democracy -702 euros. With EUR 1500 pensionable earnings, we are talking about thirty years of insurance - which is the vast majority of private sector workers, namely - with the Katorugalou law it had EUR 780, with Mr Brutsis's law again EUR 780 and with Law No 3863/2010, a pension of EUR 873. Of course the injustices in disability and widowhood pensions remain in the same spirit and logic. Of course, there is no thirteenth pension. We have tabled an amendment - I think our rapporteur, Mr Mulkiotis - has mentioned it and we are calling for it to be paid. And, of course, no provision for the reintroduction of the CSCE. The EKT was institutionalised - as you very well remember - by PASOK and was abolished by SYRIZA. The ESS was the protection net for the underprivileged who brought it into PASOK, voted for PASOK, abolished it by SYRIZA and continues to whistle indifferently. We are talking about an insurance policy which cannot in any case be disconnected from development - we are hearing it, but we do not see it - from the demographic point of view, in which some of the initiatives and changes - which are positive - do not give a radical solution and, of course, an insurance policy which must have a direct link with new resources, as we have provided from the Generation Solidarity Fund and which we have predicted and anticipated the utilization of public property and the exploitation of the mineral wealth. It is a bill reintroduced by positive provisions, so reduced penalties for pensioners who continue to work with scandalous regulations for those who are scheduled to enter the public sector. That is, I think, a message to the new generation, which I am sure is not seeing and following this debate. Because the new generation, when he listens to insurance, always thinks: "What will worse than the previous ones?" Of course, to be fair, however, it is a bill which has some positive provisions that we will not hesitate to vote in favour, such as the disconnection of income contributions, such as the provisions on insurance and, of course, the provision for agricultural incomes of up to EUR 10 000, which does not cause a problem for pensioners in the province. Of course a number of points would expect too many classes of retired and insured in this bill to actually be able to bring about changes and improvements. I will mention some examples: in the health sector, the single-retired people of the CISA and the Medical Association and the Hellenic Dental Federation have haired their language. They speak of the possibility of offsetting the contributions paid in previous years with the new insurance classes. We know that a circular had already been issued in October 2018 that enabled these surplus contributions to be offset with any debts then to the insurance funds, so it is at the government's disposal to restore and vote for something similar. We have tabled an amendment on heavy and unhealthy things. Of course, there is an injustice in Law 4445/2016 and it needs to be restored, because this law brings either a reduction in pensions or an indirect increase in age, since the insured person chooses to retire with the age limits laid down in heavy duty, then he does not get the increase of 0,75 per year at the pension amount. This should therefore be restored and there should be the same application as PPC for heavy and unhealthy workers. For mothers with a minor of fifty, fifty-five years, five and a half thousand aliases and the limit of August 2015 which flew outside thousands of women, who now go to sixty-seven years, there is no provision for that. With regard to the ELTA, we have tabled an amendment. It is a fund that cannot guarantee payment of the current reduced pensions and, of course, of the subsidiary who have actually zeroed because of a negative ratio of workers and pensioners. I think that a fund that today gives an ancillary pension of less than EUR 50 and has a reserve of EUR 200 million should be provided for the EIF. Mr President, you will allow me ten seconds, since we are talking about security, since we are talking about sustainability, since he is a representative of the government here, to say that tomorrow the people of Elijah and Achaia, Minister of State, know that, and colleagues, are protesting in the Bulgarians about the Patras tower which has not yet been made and, unfortunately, costs human lives. Because when we talk about insurance, when we talk about new generations, we should ensure that we do not have such fatalities and tragic events, and you should finally make a decision and give a solution to this gordis bond that really does not only feed us, but is a carnival road that costs us to human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u292	Mrs Heads of State Maria - Alexandra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that public social security is one of the pillars of the democratic state. Unfortunately, however, the country's socio-security system is characterised by a pathogens over time, such as the fragmentation of operators and the evasion that is a brake on its proper functioning. The acute economic crisis in recent years has come to add to the existing problems the increase in unemployment, the migration of a large production potential abroad, the marked demographic issue and the general economic downturn, with a direct impact on the government's budgetary data, on income from insurance contributions, and on the obligation to repay pensions. With this draft law, we present a new insurance system in line with the constitutional principles, a system of innovative, simple, digital, universal, distributive, but mainly effective that will affect the whole of Greek society and all categories of workers and pensioners. We restore justice and inequality. We are strengthening the rewardive nature of the system and cancel the disproportionate financial burden imposed on an important productive and creative part of the Greek economy. We frame this present from two complete studies and it is the first insurance bill in the history of the country in which this is done: one pension adequacy and a second special proportional study by the National Analogue Authority for the main and ancillary pensions, a study confirming the viability of the insurance system by 2070. The philosophy of the new law is different from the law of Katrugalo. Because the aim of the new insurance policy is to restore justice for those who have worked harder and, at the same time, to strengthen pension returns so that strong incentives can be created in the system for thirty-five and forty-four years. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's insurance system is finally moving into a new era. We are creating for the first time a national insurance body, e-ECA, in order to meet the current needs of digital transformation and to integrate the institution and the single subsidiary insurance fund and one-off benefits. That is how we achieve organisational and administrative integration, but also the integration of the database of insurance data. We maintain the accounting autonomy of sub-sectors, main pension, subsidiary insurance and one-off benefit. We vote on all social security functions for its easiest management. We guarantee more efficient and faster services to citizens. We are faced with the constant concern of those insured for the process of awarding pensions. We are modernising, rationalising and improving the process from the application to the adoption of the pension decision. We are achieving the immediate and simultaneous award of all benefits and are introducing the digital pension in the history of our country's insurance system for the first time in the history of our country's social security system. For employees, we reduce contributions by about one unit and we will also reduce them four by 2023. For freelance professionals, we adopt an innovative and rewarding system of free and flexible choice of insurance contributions. We disconnect the insurance completely from the years of insurance and the known classes of the past from income and the increase in the minimum wage. We give the productive part of the economy a million and a half million people, farmers, doctors, lawyers, engineers, small and medium-sized enterprises and all self-employed people in general. Much of the scientific potential is suffering, ladies and gentlemen, because assurances of safety cannot be given. This is precisely because of the link between insurance and income. We finally stop what we have experienced under the Katrugalou Act, a law which was considered unconstitutional by the Council of State and which we are taxing according to our income. Many people have said that it is not tax on insurance. To tax the citizen according to his income and years of work. We restore justice and the insured can freely choose in which category of contributions he will be subject to. Those who choose a high category will benefit most from the pension. It is also the first insurance bill after eleven years that will have no reduction in pensions. On the contrary, there will be increases. By voting for the new insurance and retroactively from 4 October, we are increasing the main pensions for those who are retired or retired with more than thirty years of insurance. We are now presenting a new supplementary pension payment. Pensioners will see increases up to 200 euros. We restore the possibility for the retired person to work again with 70% of his pension. Especially all present and tomorrow's workers with thirty years of insurance will see with the new law higher benefits. We structure the new system completely different from the previous one. We're looking for new freelance professionals. We will not oblige anyone free of charge after five years to give back the difference in the reduced contributions and the first insurance category, as the Katrugalos law obliges him. We are liberating the creative forces of the country. And it will be possible for everyone at the beginning of each year to choose freely the category they want with their ability. We are complying with the insurance system with the decisions of the Council of State and we are strengthening social and security justice, recompense, proportionality and operational freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system in Greece is subject to claims, interventions and the subject of constant changes from the early years of its introduction. We mapped the insurance system of the country and with patience, morality, know-how and labour, we are bringing the new insurance system to a vote. A new system with a purely socio-reflecting character. A new social security reform that embraces all today's workers and significantly favours all tomorrow's pensioners. Along with the fiscal bill of November it is the imprint of realistic optimism in Greece's economic policy. It illustrates in the clearest and most unequivocal way the difference of philosophy, perception and ideological approach between us and SYRIZA. We are moving forward from a system that punished productivity in a system that is rewarding and attractive to those in the production process. The aim is to correct the bad texts in the insurance of previous years and the SYRIZA Government. To cultivate all Greek insurance consciences and to inherit a fairly structured and well-structured insurance system in the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u294	The next speaker is Ms Alexopoulou Anastasia - Catherine from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the infamous insurance bill the government has been talking about for so long. We would really like to believe that the changes it would bring would be important and profound, but unfortunately it is not. Some are in the opposite direction to what they should. You're talking about social justice, about an insurance system that will serve the people, but I'm sorry, it's not exactly like that. I will give you a few examples taken out of your draft law on articles that the Court of Auditors itself itself gave an opinion a few days ago that they are not so harmonized with the Constitution and, in any case, are having legal problems. For example, according to Article 25 on pension adjustment, we have the paradox free professional of five thousand euros to pay around EUR 50 and a pensioner of EUR 1500 to pay EUR 90. Is that an injustice or isn't that? It could, for more equal contributions and more equal health benefits, completely abolish the supplementary pension contribution or even be the same as before, in other words, 4%. Also, according to Article 27, we have a 30% pension cut, since the pensioner works after retirement. But he works because he needs and not for some other reason. And I ask you. Shouldn't this cut be even escalating in the worst case? As could of course also have been introduced a minimum income limit that protects against cutbacks, since these people do not work after retirement, neither by hobby nor by passing their time. Let's go somewhere else. Article 48, which provides for the reduction of employers' contributions. That is why there is talk of percentage reductions while a ceiling could well be introduced, for example, like in Europe, to EUR 3 000 instead of what is in force in Greece, namely the EUR 6 500 pound for employees. So I ask how to compete with Europe when it costs us at least 50% more to get a executive in Greece. The new insurance plan does not solve this. Apart from this, you have recently decided to strengthen births in our country with the allowance of two thousand euros per newborn child. We, the Greek Solution, then expressed our reservations about some aspects. So I ask you at the same time. Shouldn't a law on mothers of minors, once, be passed in this country with favorable provisions to encourage working Greek women to give birth? Why is the other day completely the other way around? Ask any worker to tell you. Let me say a few words here about the most important factor in insurance arrhythmias. That's nothing but a big demographic problem. Only the Greek Solution combines the demographics with the insurance program. Our party says the very simple and self-evident. That if we do not fight the demographic issue we will never be able to resolve the insurance problem. We want more Greeks and we need more. Because we believe that neither demographic nor insurance will ever be solved with various illegal immigrants or refugees, as some of them present to us. Incentives, therefore, to the Greeks to be born Greeks. That's the only way to solve the demographic and insurance problem. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for us not only to make corrective moves in the insurance sector but also to provide definitive solutions to a chronic problem which unfortunately continues to trouble us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Xantopoulos Theophilus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative chamber today, the Greek Parliament, is voting for a law in the proper procedure, which is, as always, a field of concentration of social relations and the correlation of social forces. It reflects the social situation at that time. In particular, however, the law on insurance, proposed by the Minister, has a distinctive character and a great special burden. It is a rule of society's regulatory system, a guide to society, and it captures which society we want. So here we have a basic, ideological and political controversy. Tie the nature of the insurance. What's the insurance system? Because this law regulates the country's insurance system with a prospect of tens of years. In the view of the Left, our view, this system must be proportionate, fair and promote intergenerational solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the insurance system is not a cash issue. I have heard almost all your debates and positions since this morning, which are mainly in the cash and financial dimensions. It's a different text, the bill we're talking about. It's actually a ladder of generations, we pick up from the previous ones, and we have to give the next ones. This is the core for the Left of the Insurance System. On the contrary of this logic, we hear your views on freedom, the freedom to choose your insurance class, the freedom to regulate in what class and in what process you will join, and in our view - and not just ours - freedom to inequality people is a problem. The prerequisite for freedom is equality, and that is not only the value of the Left, it must be the value of the whole society. The Minister, and I have followed in detail what he said in his dentistry, has made a reduction in income levels which enjoy the benefits of the new insurance system. And it is very characteristic what you have done, Mr Minister, and you have illuminated us, seeing that the greater the revenue, the more the income of a citizen is the greater the benefit he enjoys. This is the core of the insurance policy you have brought, and that is why we are exercising our criticism. As neoliberals you only look at the numbers, but I will say the classic and kilowatted: behind the numbers there are people. L.4387/2016 the so-called Katrugalou law was created within the suffocating conditions of the memorials. So it's controversy to compare the Katrugalu law to what you're bringing. The Katrugalou law had to deal with a party insurance, dozens of funds that were broken down, dozens of ways to calculate pensions. So what did that law do? First of all, the insurance company, secondly, reinstated a large number of citizens who were unable to serve their insurance contributions with the former scheme, created the single insurance body, as is very reasonable and you are keeping it, and established a single premium for everyone, in proportion to the income. This is a fair policy for us. It is not possible for the perpetrator to pay the same premiums as the owner of the supermarket or the shop chain. This cannot apply to society. The insurance system is a system we have said, of intergenerational solidarity and other principles must be deaf. The Council of State is coming, judging the Katrugalu law on two points. In fact, it considers that 20% is excessive, that the decision violated open doors, because already this year it was 13%, but, in any case, the appeal had been brought against 20% and stated that the replacement rate is unconstitutional. This, however, opened the door to pass this liberal concept of yours and essentially restore as if you were not due to the classes. The Council of State said nothing about classes, you bring this back, and while there is an operating system that filled the funds, it functions proportionately, it incorporated thousands of citizens into the insurance market, bring back the outdated and effectively inefficient class system. What do we find in your own insurance system today? You have a strategic choice for burdening many at the expense of a few. Colleagues have said that, in fact, nine out of ten, we will pay more, nine out of ten of the pensioners lose a significant income. What is an unmistakable presumption is that the pension budget this year has a smaller amount of EUR 200 million. So you're spending much less on pensions than what the previous state budget anticipated. And since the debate on non-numbered insurance is rather timely, I would like to make a reference here: on the fifth scale, instead of paying EUR 155 which is first-class, it pays EUR 500, but the difference of EUR 345 is tabled in a programme, and this man has forty years for twelve months for 345 euros, he has 165,000 euros, apart from yields. So you're turning him to the private sector. You're not helping the system. Incorporate the private parameter into the insurance system that will be disastrous for both the system and the insured. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that progressive opposition now has a basis for discussion on the insurance system, which is about the whole of society. We can converging, we can ally ourselves, we can in society and the citizens to highlight the deadlock of this deep-minded system and create the conditions to jointly overthrow and give the country an insurance system of modern, rewarding, intergenerational, which promotes solidarity between generations and help people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u298	Next speaker Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios from the Change Movement. There are two other speakers left to finish today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that any insurance reform is a challenge for every government and its success is judged in practice. I remember: April 2001, the Yannitzi bill is cancelled. The social security system is being led to a protracted crisis. Result? Weaknesses in many, such as sectoral division and internal vertical segmentation of the institutions of course of insurance cover. There are still weaknesses that still exist today. Recall the active reform of the Law of Loverdou - Koutrumani with Law No.3863/2010, a law that was abolished and degraded by Mr. Katrugalos missing from the Chamber. The results? Known. Ladies and gentlemen, any insurance reform must respond and respond to external factors such as unemployment, demographics, increased health, globalisation, migratory flows, social conditions in poverty and social exclusion. But, ladies and gentlemen, if there is to be an insurance reform, it must respond to the threefold question: growth, competitiveness and employment. For us, the Change Movement, our firm position is that the main objective of social security must be to redistribute income and this must be both between the income groups of the same generation and between the different generations. This is called social intergenerational solidarity for us. So, ladies and gentlemen, social cohesion is guaranteed, and indeed, through a minimum, decent living limit. We did it. We did so with the ESS which we gave in 1996 as PASOK, covering the needs of four hundred and fifty thousand low pensioners. The ECHR was abolished by the previous government under the office of Mr Katrugalos. We operated for a sustainable insurance system with the establishment of a National Accounting Authority in 2002, with the integration of health branches and the separation of pension branches, with the creation of EEAY in 2011, with the application of electronic prescribing, works and days of our Parliamentary Representative, Andreas Loverdos in 2009-2011 and the Government of George Papandreou. With CEPOL in 2011, with the Solidarity Insurance Fund. In fact, I should like to point out here that there is no provision in the bill for new resources, and this in terms of strengthening the insurance system. So where are resources to be found to fund it? Ladies and gentlemen, today we must plan for the future and this by learning from the mistakes of the past. Unfortunately, however, the bill we are debating is not, I would say, an integrated insurance reform, Minister. Let me remind you that a year ago here in this Chamber we reported, you New Democracy and us, Mr. Kharugalo and the government of SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras. And today what do we see? Move to the core of the then bill of Mr. Katrugalou and then the Katorugalou law today. In fact you are shielding the Katorugalou law by undermining the rights of workers and pensioners by preparing the ground for private insurance companies. This is therefore reflected in the organisational structure of e-ECA. I would even say here that, on the pretext of digital transformation, capitalising elements are being strengthened, Minister, at the expense of distributors, while at the same time personalising is being strengthened at the expense of solidarity. That's the essence, because digital pension can be wonderful for some, but how socially fair is the reward pension in relation to the insured person's contributions and what he has to pay for? And that is a question that we all have to answer. And how easy is it to issue when two and three years of pension applications are currently stacked? When legislation has not been simplified and bureaucracy has not been fought at its base? Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest wound in this bill is that it does not relate to growth, while it does not respond to demographics, to the crisis of fertility. Well, the two grand, but it's not enough. How's the new generation coming back for leaving abroad? How will Braid Drain become Brain Gain? Today, ladies and gentlemen, our proposal to develop new resources for the benefit of the insurance system from the Solidarity Fund, which has become the law of the State, has been implemented in other European countries. We say to abolish the supreme tribute, the work of the previous government SYRIZA, and turn into a public property fund along with our hydrocarbons and mineral wealth, a fund that will finance insurance through growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill keeps the rates of the Katrugalo Law very low. This results in a reduction in pensions. Here it should be stressed that for young pensioners about 60% of the main pension will be the national pension and only 40% the payroll, while increasing the replacement rates for those with thirty to forty years of insurance. We have to make it clear here that this applies only to sixty-five thousand pensioners. It is not about the remaining five hundred thousand to be included in this category, which will offset the increase by a corresponding reduction in their personal differences, that is, their pensions will remain frozen for many years and that until the difference is zero. I should like to ask, Minister, why don't you reinstate Law 3863/2010 without the transitional periods? It was a law that provided very good replacement mechanisms. The bill also provides for no exception to the retirement age limits for heavy and unhealthy workers in overweight mines. It remains the logic of additional allowances, instead of the payment of the thirteenth pension, for all pensioners. It maintains injustices in disability and widow's pensions, as well as in the interests of relatives from Albania and Pompus who have to prove forty years of permanent residence to be able to obtain the full amount of the national pension. That is why, Minister, you must see it again. Another pitfall is the reduction of the contributions that the bill advertises because they relate to contributions to OAED, which actually takes resources away from the unemployed. Also, Minister, the arrangements for the retired persons referred to in Article 27 completely overthrow everything that has been done so far and impose unreasonable reservations. You must see this again so that the existing regime can remain in place or at least be granted a transitional period of five years. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say the following. We have tabled an amendment aimed at a fairer and more effective social security system with faith in our principles and values. We propose specific regulations such as the re-evaluation of the thirteenth pension, the introduction of a new CSR, and this as a minimum guaranteed income, the lifting of disability and widow's pensions, as well as the extension of heavy and unhealthy to the public and unretired retirement after forty years of real employment. We therefore call on you to accept it, Minister. Reforms such as insurance require consultation with the social and institutional partners and, of course, dialogue with society. Unfortunately, this bill did not meet these expectations, so we disagree on its basis, apart from some articles and provisions that are in agreement with us and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u300	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Pulu from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of its birth the modern state won its legitimacy from the hope that it would be able to provide security for its citizens. The social security system is the most important welfare institution for people's future, for their lives, for their health and for their dignity. We are in favour of social security with the redistribution system because it provides care for the whole population, it has lower costs and it is based on the principle of social justice. L.4387/2016, which has been established to be called the Katrugalou law, is judged by many without taking into account the reality that the country's insurance system was not sustainable, that it was much more on the verge of bankruptcy, as experts from the time of the Senate government warned, that it had to deal with the suffocating pressure of creditors, a reality that you created with the memorials and the collapse of the insurance funds and you are now being presented as prosecutors. L.4387/2016 was intended to re-establish the insurance system on its feet. Did he get it? It succeeded with the creation of the ECA and its transformation into a surplus organisation, as was also recognised by the technical steps of the institutions as a major achievement. L.4387/2016 aimed at an insurance scheme that is fair, sustainable and includes special care for medium and low incomes. In order to keep the balance between pressures and needs, it has necessarily included measures that have caused losses in this year. But it laid the foundations for the future replacement of these losses after the withdrawal of the crisis and the improvement of the economic indicators, and this began to be done by the SYRIZA Government after leaving the memorials and rectifying the country's finances by the thirteenth pension, by correcting injustices, such as widow's pensions, etc. The New Democracy took advantage of the discomfort of the middle class and won the elections promising new positive reforms for all. With the bill we are debating today, the government is supposed to abolish the insurance reform of the previous law. That's what he said in the election he'd do. To date, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy has described this law as such, but in fact it confirms it in its basic design. With today's bill, it maintains the structure of the single body and the uniform rules which are the basic reform. Instead of continuing to correct losses, however, it reverses the distribution of resources and undermines the principle of social justice. Of course, during its communication tactics, it presents the white black or rather black white. But in reality it reduces the total budget expenditure by 200 million, abolishes the thirteenth pension, which it had voted for in the previous parliamentary term, abolishes the calculation of income-based contributions, increases the minimum contribution affecting low incomes, and finally prescribes a grim future for young people affected by unemployment, underemployment, undeclared work and cannot hope for decent pensions. The New Democracy's election promises of large pension increases have been transformed into very small increases for a few, seventy thousand insured, and reductions for the vast majority of hundreds of thousands of pensioners. However, these increases do not come from the addition of new resources to the system, but from the internal redistribution and the abolition of the thirteenth pension. In addition, the reductions in the contributions promised by the New Democracy have been made for medium and low social strata. Do you increase yes or not by 20% the minimum contributions from EUR 185 to EUR 220 on the lowest scale? Say clearly why, instead of those reductions that you promised, you are currently making increases for the majority of the insured? Explain your numbers to small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed people, farmers, young workers instead of being hypocritical about why they react and mobilize. We hear so many inaccuracies today that our intelligence is in real danger. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your bill is driven by the neoliberal spirit and leads society to a system that is shaped not by the human needs criterion, but by the needs of the economy. It is inspired by the strategy of transforming the state of welfare into a state of charity, as was noted by Professor Savvas Robolis. You are interested in the gradual reduction of insurance contributions for workers, especially for employers, which will help reduce wage costs and at the same time pave the way for private insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government with L.4387/16 has achieved the best solution in terms of the prospect of our insurance system. That's the prospect of the bill we're talking about. The insurance it introduces is a cause for concern and insecurity for workers, and they react, as in France, where a corresponding reform of the insurance system has caused the mass resistance of workers. In the debate in the committee we heard the objections and concerns of the representatives of the social partners. The government does not seem to be taking them into account. The New Democracy was campaigning and as soon as it sat in the government, it is deafening, redistributing resources for the benefit of the few and at the expense of the many by saying "old art sieve". And while security is its great ideological argument, it exhausts it into a demonstration of police violence with more daily cases against the citizens and now that we are talking about the inhabitants of our islands. But he forgets it when it comes to the vast majority of pensioners. It is forgotten when it comes to the future of workers and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u302	Mr Boubas Konstantinos has the floor from the Greek Solution, which is the last speaker of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. I was asked to be the last speaker today, after closing the first day of this cycle we have started for a discussion on the burning issue, such as insurance. But this law, Law No.4336/15, which was imposed by the memorials, is a follow-up, because if you see working time at least doesn't change, at least as a plaque the 30 years of hard working age where it is very difficult for someone to collect the signals. Because if we are realistic, Minister, you know, the worker loses a lot of ideas, because he gets stolen or when he fills out a required number of marks and says now that whatever years pass - this is a reality of the market - I am not going to see an increase of one euro, let's go to an informal agreement 'I'm going to give you so much, I'm not sticking to you as much, because the other one is going to get sixty-one even if it has been sandy, builder in the heavy and unhealthy professions until it comes out with one, two years later, it's not going to put a signal, it's not going to interest, that is, we're going to go to some transactions. So what can we talk about people, who also mean they lose, but who work under hard working conditions and wait for a life to get a pension that they cannot pay even their basic consumer goods? When you do not have a uniform, proper, fair tax system in order to bring regional decentralisation, because it is the tax that brings some revenue to build the labour and, by extension, the insurance system, it is a triplet, you cannot hope that future generations will have a better future. The insurance is divided into capitalisation and distribution. Distribution is a social character, and in most European countries it reaches up to 70%, not a priori, that it is the social security system outside. Where it was implemented and there was no co-conflict, there was no balance of 70% -30% or 80% -20% major social issues were created and unemployment increased and insecurity increased. In Germany, too, the largest percentage - it is not capitalist, it is 30% - is distributed, that is, it distributes what workers give to the next generation. It's not redistribution, it's not money that she's giving the same generation when she's going to retire. Workers from their contributions, from their barracks, pay for pensioners. This is the balance and the pyramid of the system. If workers are fewer, then, they cannot go to the distribution of pension schemes for those who have been retired. So, as this balance has been overturned, we will have a problem, because you may say, Minister, that you have invoked these proportionate economic studies and you are doing well by economic factors and the University of Athens if I am not mistaken, but the figures for the 2070s are talking about ageing population, population shrinking, so productive tissue, active cells will not be enough to be able to pay for a distribution of wealth for insurance. There must therefore be a co-existence between capitalisation and distribution, what we say, but not redistribution. It's a mistake what we usually say we pay for our old age, we pay for those who are today and the next ones will pay for us. The question is, as this whole balance is reversed, we are trying to find skin, surface solutions. It's one of the same, it's a vicious circle that's going to be forced by the worker to codify with the employer, because he can't find a job. First of all, there is no list of whom are now considered to be heavy and unhealthy professions, the so-called'red badges'. You tried to do something about building and you take out the materials, you don't tax them, you tax the services of plumber, electrician, two hundred fifty jobs related to building. In other words, you are trying to put a system on the worker who does not know how to move. So the employer comes in and makes an agreement with the worker, because he has to pay 95% tax advance. We have had twenty-eight taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises which are also considered to be the backbone of the economy and we continue to have them. How is it possible for the employer to pay the employee with the same money, with the same insurance contributions, if his business is in a remote area with a low turnover - in Neuroscope, for example, either in Sidirokastro or in the islands currently in use - with a corresponding company in a large urban centre? What does that mean? You can't have a different policy of insurance for sure. But you need to motivate companies that have less turnover to pay less VAT, which means they can pay higher insurance contributions and hire workers, otherwise it cannot be resolved. If we do not proceed with resolving the so-called epidermal unemployment, for example, because I said it next time if someone works two hours a day, keeps him four, but pays him two or holds him seven, but states four or you will come shortly later, the known alchemys, go tell the deliver to take sixty-four or sixty-two to get out at sixty-seven. It is not fair for all workers to be the same age in retirement. There are the so-called heavyly unhealthy occupations, for which a redefinition of the list must be carried out. You're talking about the benefits of special forces' people. The Ministry of National Defence, however, took over and has incorporated the risk of parachutist, frogman, pilot, man in submarines into basic wages. They lose 400 euros from there, their insurance contribution rises. Is that fair? Tell a man who's lost his youth, works in building as an olive-colourer or in iron structures, and he's missing five hundred badges and says he has to work up to sixty-two if he's on heavy or sixty-seven. Where's the farmer's widow? There has been no social care for the widow farmer. The farmer is considered a small businessman. Citizens are being blamed and employees of many speeds are being employed. Do you have one? You pay, but you have to pay high enough to get a pension of dignity. Don't you have one? Do you pay a little? You won't get a big pension. But there is another indicator. There is no price observatory. Consumer goods have taken the ignorance. For someone to go to the supermarket, it is not enough to draw up 400, 500 or even 600 euros, because we have not retained prices, it has not been a price observatory and the pensioner pays it. As a Greek Solution, we were the extremists when we told you that problems would arise on the so-called atrocious lines of the Aegean, on our islands that suffer. From tomorrow the MATs should change title, be called the Local Management Units, to deal with local factors. When we said there was a solution in the Greek Solution, you considered us extreme. To go to some areas that are not inhabited, to be protected, to be controlled not to create social frictions and toils with local communities. But when we talked about it, we were extremists. Now, then, local societies are split up, they're in a social explosion and we don't know this explosive mixture that's going to end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-25-S1-commons.u305	With the consent of the House at 23.21 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, February 26, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security reform and digital transformation of the National Social Security Agency (E.F.K.A.).(')'.
