ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 12-11-2020 delegation, the minutes of the PLACAL meeting of Thursday, 12 November 2020, with regard to the vote in all draft laws were ratified by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Creation of the Cooperation Protocol to Tourism Cruise between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Tourism of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Ministry of Energy, Trade, Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Cyprus’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in the field of tourism’ 3. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan for cooperation in the field of tourism’. Before we move on to the timelines for today's Questions, let me first announce to the House the news sheet on Monday 16 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 126-11-20, by MP Ioannina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on "Direct health immunity from the Law of Ioannina". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 120/2-11-2020 of the Member of the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitrios Biagi, to the Minister of Health, on "Kerkyra in terms of health". 3. The 146/9-11-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Extra distance teaching and technical equipment to all students for equal access to education". 4. The Question No 136/9-11-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Digital exception for hunters from quarantine'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 140/9-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Volos Hospital under suffocating pressure due to shortcomings, under-funding and inertia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 145/9-11-2020 topical question by the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Scientific attraction to the ESS for the reversal of Brain Drain". 3. The 144/9-11-2020 topical question by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Association of governmental failure to shield the Larissa Hospitals". 4. The question by No 128/7/11-2020 of the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Insufficient the measures announced by the government for the world of the market'. 5. The question under number 147/9-11-20 is a topical question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, entitled 'Increase of aid ceilings by enterprise by the European Union'. 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Main question the concern of the workers of the Scaramaga Navals". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 127/6-11-2020 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Insecurity and uncertainty for the Scaramaga Naval workers". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under No 147/44/6-10-2020 was asked and application for the submission of SYRIZA Eastern Attica - the Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Sufficient deficiencies in Eastern Attica's Health Centers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 263/8-10-20, by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Maria - Eliza (Mariliza) Xinogiannakopoulou, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The prospects of the OAED because of the government's choices." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: The numbers 124/6-11-2020 and 134/9-11-2020, which will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. The 131/9-11-2020 topical question, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. The question under number 130/9-11-2020, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou. The numbers 139/9-11-2020 and 143/9-11-2020, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. The numbers 123-6-11-2020 and 133-9-11-2020, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The numbers 125/6-11-2020 and 132/9-11-2020, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr Dimitrios Economou. The numbers 141/9-11-2020 and 142/9-11-2020, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Theodore Livano. The second question of the second question of the Arta MP of the Change Movement Mr Christos Gokas to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis, on the subject of 'Civil Transport', will now be discussed. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the phenomenon of increased crowdage in public transport at Attica and Thessaloniki was the main cause of COVID -19, so we can reach the general ban, the lockdown imposed throughout the country. In the prevalence and prevalence of public transport, it is impossible to observe any health protocol. Of course, the problem has been known since the beginning of your government's term of office. Today the situation remains tragic. The previous SYRIZA government left urban transport without any new vehicle market, no intake and no spare parts. The 2017 competition for the purchase of a thousand vehicles in Athens and Thessaloniki was annulled by the Independent Procedural Authority. Moreover, the competition for the ninety-two buses in the region has never been completed. With the oliguria and delays of the last seventeen months rather than speeding up the solution of the problem, especially after the pandemic occurred, a valuable time has been lost for six months. We have thus reached the second wave of the pandemic without any substantial change, as the images we see show, and a situation for which, obviously, there is a great responsibility from the government with painful results, unfortunately, for the health of the citizens and also for the economy. The poor service, Minister, but also the dangers to the health of citizens, obviously require a greater number of emergency routes. The problem was obviously not solved by the last-minute measure, i.e. the rental of some routes by the CCTs in the Laucadeau, because at the same time there are two hundred seventy-seven vehicles remaining immobilised due to a lack of spare parts, while only on 30 October the notice for recruitment of staff of six hundred and fifty-five persons totalling at best will be completed after three months, as well as the time of movement of vehicles ordered by leasing is unknown. On the basis of these delayed measures, which are not enough, but also the problems which unfortunately remain and will follow us from what seems for many months, especially in the winter months, I would ask you, Minister, if there is a plan for immediate solutions to the problem of crowding in public transport and what they are, and when do you estimate that the vehicles expected by leasing will be released. Will you proceed to the immediate repair following the supply of spare parts for buses that are immobilized? Secondly, what measures will be taken in view of both the winter before us and the prevailing conditions in order to protect the health of those working in public transport? Their contribution must not be forgotten throughout this effort, because they are also at the forefront of this struggle that we are giving to the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for your question, because I am given the opportunity to clarify some of the facts and get away from the world of impressions and move on to the world of evidence. You mentioned in your question that public transport is an outbreak of dispersal. There is no study and no evidence at European level that proves this. I am not saying this, all the experts around the world say it, and I am delighted to be able to refer you to these studies. But I will tell you something else which I think shows that what you are saying has at least one element of exaggeration. At the main metro station in Syntagma on October 20th, the EGE conducted the so-called rapid test, three thousand seventeen tests. Positively, Mr Colleague, only twenty-nine, under 1%. I'll tell you what we've done. First of all, I am glad that you recognize at least the fact that, for all these years, very little has been done in the field of public transport. For eleven years, there had not been a single subway intake. For thirteen years, there had not been one intake in the U.S.S. And for eleven years no single bus had been bought. On SYRIZA we received eight hundred fifty vehicles in July 2019 and thirty-five in Thessaloniki. One-third of the subway trains were in shuttle, my dear fellow Member. So I think this situation is now clear. The question is what we have done in this period. We've rebuilt the bus fleet. I am sorry that you are using the two hundred seventy buses that SYRIZA has mentioned in the past. All the fleet was to bring him up. I will provide you with information to prove that in recent years millions of euros have been spent in spare parts to raise an old and problematic fleet. Our technicians, the worthy technicians in the OSH, have worked, and I thank them for that, to get buses out on the streets. In the metro we improved the time intervals, in Line 1 by two and a half to three minutes, in Line 2 and 3, one to two minutes, always compared to July 2019. We have completed and delivered three new subway stations to Piraeus. At the same time, we made a partnership with the CBELs to add to the U.S. two hundred three vehicles. A hundred vehicles have already been added. Today there are over a thousand vehicles in the streets of Athens and we will receive, as you quite rightly said, the three hundred modern buses until the beginning of next year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I shall close with that, Mr President, to have the opportunity to reply to Mr Goka. You say we're late. We have implemented an integrated plan, step by step. The measures require serious preparation at all levels. They were neither easy nor self-evident. And let me tell you something else. I am interested in agreeing here that there is a major change and reform, a partnership with the private sector for the CBS, respecting the public nature of urban transport, the rental of buses, which is the first time in the Greek public sector, which we all know very well that this reduces maintenance costs. And if you want to say that these reforms, which have not made any government in ten years and which we have done, should have been three or six months earlier, I understand that and I would have liked that too. But the procedures we have done are express procedures. As you rightly said, the recruitment of six hundred and fifty people has already been done and we have a timetable. The notice was posted on 30 October. The time limit for lodging applications shall be 18 November. OSH and SSY rank the candidates on the basis of ASP criteria and will have them ready by 15 December. The provisional classification will therefore go to the AACC on 15 December and the AACC needs at least one month to accept the objections. So on January 15, that is, in less than four months, we hired the Greek State. So I understand right now that there is this feeling that some things should have been done earlier. But we live in a favoured state. Procedures are procedures and, in any case, recruitment of ten years has been carried out in three months. In my dentistry, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - I shall also refer to the proposals made by KINAL, because I have read them. Your President tabled them yesterday, if I remember them well, but you had made them public before. I will prove to you that many of the proposals you have made have already been implemented to a certain extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, Mr Goka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, the question and our positions aim, beyond criticism, to be accompanied by constructive proposals to resolve a problem. Unfortunately, the situation in public urban transport is also a given one, and the reality of this dangerous crowding is also known to everyone. People see it every day, they live it every day. People are forced to get off the bus to get a taxi today. I am not talking about either 15 months ago or what happens after five months. We'll see about that. Unfortunately, this does not change, the reality remains. We believe that many of these things that are being done today could, at the beginning of the pandemic and, if we waited for the second wave of pandemic, go faster, that is, the situation required faster decisions and even faster actions, which were not done on time. For this inertia, for this weakness in design and implementation we are discussing and we think that there should be a lesson to be learned so that we do not repeat and have not the same results, because you had whatever design you had and you continued to move as if there were no emergency needs of the pandemic. At least that picture was given. The seats have been declared now, the rental of the vehicles now. This could all be done several months ago. There is a market for the new buses. We know. That's what's going on. In fact, it's time. He can't give the immediate solution. Of course, we need to have a debate on the general framework in which we are moving in the field of public transport, in relation to and with the obligations we have in implementing specific regulations. The point is, however, that this situation remained until the world was stacked and, obviously, it does not have any effect on social distancement measures or on the mask, which can protect as one point. When the world is stacked, it can't protect. Obviously, claim that there are experts who say that the virus is not transmitted to bus crowds. I don't know if that's the expert opinion. It was also invoked by the Prime Minister yesterday. Let the experts in our country say that this crowd, this image that we saw on buses, is not an overtransmission. We consider this to be the main focus of overtransmission. Minister, we know the situation in the urban transport sector. I mentioned it before. In 2004 there were almost two thousand buses in urban transport and without an epidemic. We have arrived last year with a thousand fifty - a thousand hundred buses. Today, not two hundred seventy, is the total of seventy vehicles, but a hundred fifty eight buses and seventy - eighty - eighty - eighty - rollers. The hundred - hundred - sixty buses remain immobilized and damaged, for which there are no spare parts or which were not until yesterday. Today if they are there, it'll be pleasant. Because that's what we say to get all these buses out on the streets. Minister, the citizens are really interested in solutions. We do not intend to create pointless polarisations and tensions and other situations, but to find solutions for citizens. Evidently, the CCFs entered the routes of Thessaloniki. However, the fifty buses of the Municipality of Thessaloniki know that they are cars of great age, without windows, with poor conditions of public transport, without air conditioning. Also, with regard to the solution that has been made at the last minute with the ATTs in Attica to save what can be saved, with the two hundred three buses, we have no knowledge of the contract. There are opaque conditions. We don't know how much it cost. We had proposed before the pandemic, and even more since the pandemic, that the agencies themselves should hire buses. You have said so very recently and I have also said in my prototype that three hundred buses have been ordered and a few months later. Until then what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u7	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u8	So is the staff's positions. There's still a long time. In other words, you have made announcements many times that they are densing the routes, that we are taking staff, buses entering, but there are actually reports left in practice. Now they're on their way. That is why we say that this situation requires immediate solutions. And we need to look at the solutions that need to be given today, because the measures are not enough. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. In conclusion, our proposals are the ones that our President, Mrs Gennamas, mentioned yesterday, which we have said: Immediate supply of spare parts, so that the vehicles that are immobilised are put on the market. Acceleration of recruitment, but always with objectivity. Although now it's going to take the time you said yourself. Coordination of Urban Transport Organisations with municipal transport and urban city transport - periphery,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u9	This has been said, Mr President. You must be brief, because they are 12 questions. We'll go to the left. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u10	...to temporarily increase the number of vehicles in the transport system. And finally, the renewal of the fleet of vehicles, by direct procedures. I'm closing, Mr. President. Minister, mass media crowds are a matter that needs to be addressed today. We need to see what we're doing now to solve the problem and people know. In this context, we are prepared to support the effort of municipal urban transport that is sufficient and safe for citizens, never to have this crowd again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. You're referring to the crowded buses. I understand that this is the feeling that exists in the world, because it is obvious that several media - and rightly so - show the problem, show an image on some buses, especially in Athens, in the western districts, which have a problem and are seeing crowding phenomena. However, in my institutional capacity, I am obliged - and I know that what I am going to do is unpopular - to speak with data and to tell you, Mr Goka, that more than 65% bus capacity appears to be around 4% of the vehicles. I repeat, over 65% of the capacity appears in 4% of the vehicles. That's not what I'm saying or the Ministry. It is said by the OSCE telematics, and indeed we take account of the ticket escape estimated by a special algorithm. So that's the reality. Now will you tell me to the thousands of hundred and fifty buses circulating there aren't some buses with a congested problem? I'll be the first to admit that. What are we doing, Mr. Goka? By putting the Kappas on the regional routes, on the routes that the Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kampa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kaka Kampa Kandaraka Kandara Kandara Kandara Kandara Kou Kandarah Kandara Kandahara Kandahara Kandahara Kandalla Kandahara Kandahara Kandahara Kandara Kou and Kasha Kandahara Kasha Kasha Kasha Kandahara Kandahara Kandahara You talked about the contract with the Kappa Tau, that it's - it says - opaque. I am sorry, Mr Goka, to remind you here, too, that it has nothing to do with the reality of what you are saying. In OSH - and that is good to hear - the cost per vehicle kilometre is 2.9 to 3 euros. That's the cost. For every kilometre that makes a bus of OSH, we want 3 euros per kilometre. The CCT is EUR 1,41. Therefore, we understand and reply with this number to the objections of opaqueness. You said something else. Two thousand buses - he says - were released in 2000. You should tell us in 2000 how many drivers we had. Because every bus needs three drivers. Today, then, we have three thousand drivers, two thousand eight hundred actually. That's why we're hiring. And that's why we're transferring the transport project for a reasonable period of time and giving people 20%. And that, Mr Goka, is where the private sector will be recruited, because the CBS will also hire five hundred and fifty people. Therefore, a total of a thousand two hundred jobs. From the proposals made by your party, the three are already being implemented by the government. You tell me we haven't done enough. I will tell you that, especially in buses since the government came to power, we have increased the fleet of vehicles by 25%, from eight hundred to a thousand and by the beginning of next year, we will have increased it by 70%, because we will have a thousand and a hundred vehicles available. The large bus competition was not annulled by the Government of New Democracy, but was annulled by the Independent Judicial Appeal Authority. I've filed it in the Minutes. I'm not saying this for you, Mr. Goka. I know you're serious, and you've recognized that. We're gonna make this contest now. This competition will be ready in the next few weeks to come out in the air and you will see that there too we will make a very large gradual renewal of the fleet. We can't get a thousand buses in a year. Nowhere in any city in Europe do you get a thousand buses in a year. You gradually take new buses, environmentally friendly, so that in the next two to three years the fleet will gradually be renewed. To conclude, Mr President, by saying that we need to get away from the micro-participatory purposes and we need to get away from a barren controversy. Today we have not had such a barren controversy. KINAL has made some suggestions. Many of these proposals have been adopted. On the other hand, however, there is an exaggeration element when we are trying to talk about crowding phenomena, when we see today that these phenomena to a very large extent have been dealt with. Are you going to tell me this is an idyllic picture of urban transport? Of course not. I'm not hiding behind my finger. The situation is very difficult, and that is why we have a plan which we already see progressing and, slowly, we see day after day changing the data. For Thessaloniki you mentioned you are completely wrong. We received two hundred and thirty-five buses, and today there are four hundred buses, an increase of over 70%. If that is the case, Mr Goka, you consider that it is very small and that we have been delayed, to accept your criticism. But the evidence says something else. It would be appropriate for KINAL to table proposals which are realistic and if these proposals are realistic and correct, the government has no problem adopting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Before going to the next question, I would like to say this: this question has really had a special and general interest and it was useful to hear the views of the questioner, but also the Minister's replies, because it concerns public opinion in its entirety. However, I would like to ask, because we have 11 other time-consuming questions, so that we do not arrive at noon. We are now continuing with the first under number 123/6-11-2020 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Biodiesel production, distribution and energy crops'. In this question, as I said before, the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with Law 3054/2002 our country was harmonized with the relevant Community directives and the relevant European legislation, which provided for the production, purchase and disposal of biodiesel in our country. Cowards - cowardly started this sector quite ambitiously. In the early years, for example, we had two hundred thousand acres. Let us remember that the production of biodiesel in our country - and that is what this timely question is about - is mainly produced from energy plants from our farmers. Today, Minister, energy-growing acres amount to about one million. Most of them are in Aesthetic Thrace. I repeat that biodiesel production in our country is mainly from rapeseed, soya and sunflower. The added value of biodiesel is very important. Firstly, the income of twenty-five thousand farmers, covered by contract farming. Secondly, exports of by-products, such as feed. Thirdly, thousands of employees are employed in biodiesel production companies. But today, with this timely question, the twenty-six thousand farmers who grow energy plants, energy crops, a clear position by the Greek Government whether it will apply or change the biodiesel distribution system in our country. This is because in recent years there has been a strong rumour and there has been a great disturbance in the rural area for a possible change in the distribution of biodiesel, given that the price has also fallen dramatically over the last two years. You ask, Minister, very clearly - and I am waiting for your position - whether your Government intends to maintain, as required by European legislation, the current biodiesel distribution system and whether it will cure any shortcomings that are observed in the biodiesel distribution system by those who receive biodiesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Minister, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would like to thank you for your question. We both come from rural areas and know the importance of energy crops in the production of biofuels. On the matter of competence of the Ministry of the Environment you raised, I would like to stress that from the forecasts and objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan presented at the end of 2019, biodiesel processes and its contribution to the energy requirements of our country are envisaged. So, as the promotion of biofuels is one of the policies included in the National Plan, as I said, for energy and climate, the aim is to promote the use of Greek products and to support domestic biodiesel producers. In addition, there is a significant increase in the contribution of biofuels to energy penetration from renewable energy in the decade 2020-2030 in the transport sector due to the need to reduce the environmental footprint in this sector. At the same time, the share of advanced biofuels is projected to be increased, especially in the late 2020-2030 period. Apart from the National Plan on Energy and Climate, however, the Ministry's policy on biofuels is moving in the context that defines, as you rightly said, the relevant European legislation. European Directive 98/70 on the quality of biofuels, which was incorporated into national law under Article 19A of Law 4062/2012, provides, among other things, for the obligation to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 6% from the use of fuels in the transport sector with the first reference year in 2020 by suppliers, namely those selling fuels, mainly oil companies. The most effective way to reduce emissions is to substitute part of conventional fuels with biofuels. To date, the process of achieving this objective has been to increase the penetration of renewable energy sources in transport, which has been chosen in the early 1920s and which we have complied with so far by means of various amendments. Biofuels have been incorporated since 2005 into Law 3054/2002 according to which they are placed on the domestic market themselves or in a mixture of crude oil refining products, provided that they comply with the technical specifications laid down by the Higher Chemical Council and in accordance with the obligations and allocation laid down in the relevant Ministerial Decisions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Today we are in the light of the correct transposition of Directive 2018/2001, which should be incorporated into national law - as you say in your question - by the middle of next year and which provides a target of 14% for the penetration of renewable energy sources into transport by 2030 and a more specific target of 3.5% for suppliers in relation to advanced biofuels. In combination with the obligations of previous directives and the provisions of the National Plan on Energy and Climate - for you, too, know to the Ministry of Rural Development - we are considering policy measures so that within the timescales we have to find the best solution to promote advanced biofuels and to continue supporting domestic production, as we always do. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Cocksucker has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm glad you're supporting biofuels. However, I will return to the crucial question, because you mentioned just once or twice the word 'distribution'. And I think it's the most crucial, most important word in biodiesel production. Because this is of interest to producers, farmers, that is what also concerns the whole chain of companies in the sector, which produce biodiesel. Because if I beat wood - the distribution system is abolished, you understand that farmers will abandon their crops, energy crops, which are now under contract farming. I would remind you that the distribution system is legal, not just legal, but also necessary to implement it faithfully. I provide in the minutes a decision of the Council of State of 2016 which states that the system of self-proportional biodiesel, the distribution of biodiesel, is not contrary to Article 5(1) of the Constitution, to the principle of proportionality and to Community law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would therefore ask you, Minister - and I am really glad that you support biofuels - to put a little more specifically on the biodiesel distribution system and what the policies of the Ministry are, if you are going to other sectors for biofuels, such as shipping, such as heating oil. I think that the Ministry and the government should be specifically placed on something that concerns a very large number of rural worlds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Tagaras, State Secretary for Environment and Energy, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u20	Indeed, the issue of allocations is a crucial issue. Within the area of competence of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, we are promoting the greatest possible penetration of alternative fuels in transport, with the aim of reducing, as I said, the environmental footprint. That is why we support the domestic production of biofuels through energy crops, which you have mentioned quite rightly. More fully informed by the National Representation and the public, I summarise the distribution figures for the last three years. For 2018, the total amount of biodiesel allocated was thirty - three thousand kilograms. The amount of biodiesel corresponding to the submitted supporting documents for energy crops was eighty-two thousand five hundred nine millimetres and the allocated amount of biodiesel, on the basis of the energy crop criterion, eighty-two thousand five hundred nine millimetres, i.e. 62% of the total quantity. For 2019, the total amount of biodiesel allocated was 40 thousand kilograms. The amount of biodiesel corresponding to the submitted supporting documents for energy crops was ninety-two thousand nineteen millimetres and the amount of biodiesel allocated on the basis of the energy crop criterion was ninety-eight thousand nineteen millimetres, i.e. 66% of the total quantity. For 2020, the total amount of biodiesel allocated was thirty-two thousand and five hundred kilograms. The amount of biodiesel corresponding to the submitted supporting documents for energy crops was six thousand four hundred ninety millimetres and the allocated amount of biodiesel, based on the energy crop criterion, was ninety - two thousand eight hundred ninety - five millimetres. This quantity corresponds to 70,22% of the total and is the maximum rate that the distribution criterion for energy crops may receive as you know. These are the elements that I have mentioned and which have arisen in recent years. In other words, we have an increase in the quantity allocated, on the basis of a criterion for energy crops, in this context, of the overall policy on the promotion of renewable energy sources in transport, in which case alternative fuels, as well as support, as I have said many times, for domestic biofuel production. As I mentioned in the protology on this issue, the government as defined in the relevant European legislation and, of course, the National Energy and Climate Plan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and strengthening the penetration of renewable energy sources and the transport part. And, of course, we can talk about cars and traffic, because you have also referred to maritime transport and not only, the trend is, and it is stable and it is evolving, the environmental footprint will be reduced by intervening in all modes of transport, because you have also referred to yourself before your reference. On the basis of the same priorities, then, we intend to move forward in the next few years, looking together with the stakeholders, all that is needed to enable us to use alternative fuels and biofuels, by making use of them, reducing the energy environmental footprint in the transport sector and, of course, by supporting, for multiple times, domestic production and investment in these activities. These are our policy and our objectives on the subject you have raised, and I would like to thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u21	We continue with the fourth with No 133-9-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In the status of working hostage workers in the Management Bodies of protected SPC areas". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the anti-environmental, environmental law of Mr. Hatzidakis in the third chapter abolishes management bodies. The decentralised participatory management model established and applied since its establishment to date is replaced by a model strictly controlled by the central state without the participation of local society, local government, environmental organisations, productive bodies of society and citizens. The thirty-six management bodies are merged to twenty-four and renamed management units now. Recently an invitation was made by OFYPEKA, this new organisation for natural environment and climate change, for the secondment of thirty-eight employees to the management boards with a deadline of 4 December. It could be said that you are doing well and strengthening these agencies with distractions, but that too many workers who have been working for more than fifteen years, who have been standing up and know the subject, are now leaving them dead. Although you have given assurances to the network of teleconferencing workers on 21 October with the president and CEO of FYROM that the staff are secured and permanent staff will be declared for management units, all of these have been promised. You are actually bringing back new workers, who will need time to train, and the existing people, at the moment, you are throwing them on the road, I fear for reasons of ideology, because in the past they have stood up to you in decisions. I would like you to be a little clear about what it is planned to do with these workers, when these positions will be opened and how these people will be permanentised in their positions so that what you have left out of the level of management can be restored to the enormous damage you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would like to thank you for your question. I mean that the anguish for the protected areas, and this is a horizontal desire, a position, but also a goal for all of us, is to be able to protect these areas and manage them in the most responsible and effective way. Because it is our national wealth that the protected areas are, we have to keep them in good condition and deliver them better than they are today, from the picture they have today. As regards the references to the change from L.4685, the Environmental Law of May 2020, the Environmental Law enabled, by adapting to European legislation and following international trends in environmental protection, to find solutions to chronic problems relating to speeding up and simplifying procedures, as well as to environmental permits, forest maps and residential densities. So it actually intervenes, in particular, and effectively, to give solutions to chronic problems that are certainly affecting and affecting the protected areas you have mentioned. Therefore, OFYPEKA, the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, has come to organise, coordinate, planning, intervening as a central body, a coordinating body, all these protected areas that operated fragmentaryly, individually with local management councils and, of course, with human resources. I am going to put myself on this as well, and I will answer your question. There were management bodies that had a residual function, management bodies that were not management boards, boards that had no quorum to meet. There was certainly a lack of management and there was also a shortage in human resources, but also in logistical infrastructures, so that they could make use of opportunities and opportunities that were available every time. Of course, all of this, management failure, as I said, posed a problem of absorption of funds from financial instruments. As a result, the European Commission in 2019 referred Greece to the European Court of Justice, due to insufficient biodiversity protection. These were pathogens that were working, and precisely this pathogen came from Mr.4685 and Mr.FYPEKA as a central coordinating body to be able to intervene and remove any difficulties - both organisational and technical - but, above all, to be able to make use of opportunities by exploiting the human potential, which has experiences, has specialisations that we need and I will respond, because I do not have time to do so now, in my second language for this human potential, but also in the development and course that is going to follow. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u25	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, although I know you on a personal level, and I appreciate you, and I know that you would never have brought this extinction brought by Mr Hatzidakis, you have not answered the substance of the question at all and the questions of the written question, and that is not correct with parliamentary scrutiny. If you respond to your dentistry, I will have no way of controlling and publicly participating in the correction of any reply you refer to. Now very little and concisely you said that the Hatzidakis Environmental Law is coming to address the weaknesses that have brought us before the European Commission for the insufficient protection of biodiversity. On the contrary, it comes to create the foundations for a clear condemnation of the non-protection of biodiversity. But we will discuss this in another question. Three hundred and forty-seven employees in management are again in an unfavourable situation. Despite the fact that the relevant procedures for resolving the labour problem had been launched, the environmental law is in fact ‘freeze’ from all proceedings. As many of these workers have said, they have been working for over fifteen years. That is why the questions you have avoided answering your prototype are as follows: will we ensure the safe transition of all workers in indefinite time and the maintenance of their jobs? What is the timetable for safeguarding workers' working rights in management bodies? Will the workers, according to their formal qualifications and their contribution to safeguarding the natural wealth of our country, be mobilised during the planned procedure? That is what you have not responded at all to your prototype and I have had to read exactly about this gap. Now, with regard to what you have set again for the environment, it is clear that Mr Hatzidakis' vision is that there is no protected area, no CSM, no national park, to bring development in terms of real anti-European, cementation conditions outside the European framework. I will not forget - and nobody forgets - the arrangements that they wanted to pass on to the environmentally sound law in addition to those that they have passed, slate gas mining in Thrace in protected areas, wildlife shelters, mining in nuclei of the national parks and others which, after universal outcry, have withdrawn. I urge you to be essential in your answer to your dentistry, clear about the timetable for the reintegration and mobilisation of the three hundred and forty-five employees in the management bodies, because otherwise you leave the management of our natural wealth, after you have destroyed the management bodies, without experienced, trained personnel. And that really gets things one step worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u27	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be specific to your questions, I just haven't had time for my prototype. With regard to existing staff and managers who have experience and skills - and we certainly need this experience that has taken so many years to make even more use of it to protect these sensitive areas - I would like to say that under Article 43 of Law 4685/2020, self-evident transfer is provided for in the same working relationship, in principle from that which is now on the ground with the administrative boards, the new body, the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency. Therefore, there is no question of the work relationship between the workers who are right today, of course, that for many years of about three hundred and fifty, most - except for six, who are private law law, are under a fixed-term contract which is renewed every time. The working relationship does not, therefore, change in principle in the transition from the old regime, in accordance with the new law, due to their accession to the Natural Environment and Climate Change Organisation. From there on, Article 32 of the same law refers to the establishment plan, and at the moment in the preliminary draft there are four hundred twelve posts to cover all the gaps that exist today. Therefore, these positions will be paid by a competitive procedure, according to what the AACC defines. The mobilisation of existing staff, however, taking into account the experience and specialisation of existing staff, is what will give bonuses to existing staff with its experience in the development of permanent posts in the new management body. And I want to say here, in addition, that despite the difficulties and the others that exist in the natural environment and biodiversity to which I referred before are the critical parameters that we must support immediately and that is what we are doing. As far as the issue of the new architecture and the people who are in the NATURA areas is concerned, I would like to say that we have already set up a lot of projects, making use of the Recovery Fund, which is another financial instrument for the FYROM, for the protected areas, so that they can solve problems that we need. And because you have referred to secondments, it is not a question of new recruitment, because first of all the agency must be assigned, but of secondment by officials and officials with an appropriate scientific area, but also of competence, in order to meet today's needs. Fourteen distractions have been completed and it is a matter of a minimum of days. We have already completed the competitive process for a director-general and four directors, and we are completing these executive positions, so that we can move along the path through the tender I mentioned to cover with permanent staff, using and mobilising the existing staffing potential that exists and is important. So, in terms of building infrastructure and installation sites, I would like to tell you that everything is moving quickly. The aim, therefore, is through the procedures that are progressing very briefly to achieve with the new body as a coordinating body, which will be able to cooperate with all the regional structures that will be present as a resistant, maximum possible result, the existence of management capacity and the exploitation of all its executives, which, I repeat, are important and many. With the new mode of mobilisation and recruitment, permanent recruitment, procedures are under way, because I too agree with you that it is a pity for such a staffing capacity with experience and specialisation in the area of protection of sensitive areas to take place for so many years, as you have said for over fifteen years, renewable contracts. It is our duty to have them more efficient and permanently available to us in order to exploit their own skills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u29	The following two topical questions will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis. So it is the first under number 124/6-11-2020 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexis Haritsis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: ‘Creating a targeted programme of non-refundable aid for the focus sector’. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, we are at a very critical moment today with the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic. Unfortunately, yesterday, we had another day with a negative record, both in cases and intrinsic, and in our fellow citizens who ended up from the coronary. With this opportunity and at this critical moment, then, I would like to express my sympathy and solidarity with all people, workers and health workers who, despite the fact that they did not receive support from them and deserved all these months by the government, are giving the very great battle on the front line on the part of the whole society. But, Minister, apart from the sanitary aspect, unfortunately the economy is also suffering, an economy which, unfortunately, you did not shield forward, as we have asked you to do. I would like to remind you of our proposals from the beginning of April with the 'Standard-Start' programme, while we returned to the end of May and updated in September in Thessaloniki with very specific proposals to support the real economy and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and workers in these very difficult circumstances. We all see the results. Since I do not have time, beyond official figures, we see the forecasts for unemployment by the end of the year and the unprecedented recession in the second quarter. We see that now, according to ELSTAT, one out of three employees has a payroll under the minimum wage and one out of eight, from one per cent prior to the crisis, a fee of up to 200 euros, while, in November, ELSTAT again anticipates another 5 billion losses for businesses and 1 billion losses of income for households. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In all this gloomy climate - let me take some time, Mr President - there are also sectors of the economy, which have been even more disproportionately affected by this crisis. One of these sectors is particularly severely affected is the focus. I would remind you, of course, that the Minister knows - especially in the ten-year crisis, as an emergency entrepreneurship, has led many of our fellow citizens to this sector. Again, according to official figures, we are talking about a sector with eighty thousand businesses employing over three hundred and fifty thousand workers, and together with the assisted members, there are four hundred thousand and with a total turnover of more than EUR 6 billion for 2018. This industry dropped by 57% in the second quarter. In some parts of the country even the overwhelming 90%, Minister, while at the same time the reduction in employee earnings reached up to 70%! GESH warns that one in three undertakings in the sector will not reopen the process after the restrictive measures have been lifted. This will lead to the loss of an additional hundred and twenty thousand jobs, beyond the thirty thousand jobs we have already lost in the crisis. That's the reality. The industry has made specific demands and I must say that these proposals are in keeping with the proposals we have put forward. I would like to speed up the most important ones: a special programme of non-refundable advance, 100% of insurance contributions in the next six months and a rental maintenance programme, all the debts created during the pandemic, exemption from municipal charges for the time of the crisis. I think that these are proposals that the Ministry should see with great attention, especially for the focus sector, although we are now, of course, in a generalised lockdown, they apply to the whole economy. In particular, however, on the issue of injecting liquidity, of non-refundable compensation, I think, Minister, it is time, at last, even now, to have a programme of targeted support for this sector with non-repayable compensation. I think it is very critical, precisely to regain this trend, which seems now to be seen with the second lockdown, that is to say, the complete collapse of a very important sector. I am therefore waiting for your answers, to see how we can stop this downhill and help to keep tens of thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of workers in life. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u31	Not to take advantage of the World Goodness Day that is today and spend so much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u32	I did not know that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u33	Yeah, open your jewels...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u34	Your kindness is always...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u35	... because today is the World Goodness Day, which was established in 2000. For this kindness, please warmly have a limit. And I say it for everyone from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u36	All right, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u37	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make it quite clear that I consider the question of the honourable Member to be very good and correct, under the current circumstances and not as kind, but as a reality. It is at the moment a proper question. But I have to tell you very well that I think that your approach and the constant reference to ELSTAT's forecasts or to the reduction of the turnover of the economy is in the following sense: we are living a global storm. It becomes a storm and your criticism is "I hear that we will have rain around us"! But obviously! Is it possible to be in the middle of a storm and not to get wet? How's that gonna happen? It's obvious we're going to have a recession! It's obvious we're gonna lose a cigarette! It's obvious we're going to have damage to the economy! If, my dear colleague, the closure of business led to an increase in turnover and an increase in jobs, we would be sitting at our home all day watching television. Therefore, it is obvious that it is in our knowledge and it goes without saying that all the restrictive measures that we are necessarily taking to protect public health have the effect of causing damage to the economy as a result. So, constantly reporting me the predictions of the damage, I'm sorry, but it's small. Let us talk about how we are dealing with the damage, because that is what we can discuss. The damage is inevitable, given that it is forced. So let's go now to how we deal with her. You said we should have followed SYRIZA's proposals with "We stay upright" in March, April and May. This is your reading and your right to defend it. I'll tell you my own reading. If we had followed your proposals in May, today Greece would have gone bankrupt, because, if we spent all the money you asked us for in March, the way you told us, the markets would have gone to 10%, Greece would today be excluded from the markets, and so today we would have no euro to give anyone. The reason why the Greek economy today has the potential for quarantine to drop its borrowing rates and therefore the Ministry of Finance can make successful exits to the markets, complete its cash reserves and have money to pay for the aid to employees and businesses, is why we did not follow SYRIZA's advice in May and April. The advice of SYRIZA in May and April were advice "give everything now, as if there were no tomorrow", and our view since then was "there will be a second wave, we need to keep forces for the future". Unfortunately, the development of the pandemic proved that we were right and you were wrong. As far as the measures we took in the first wave are concerned - to repeat a debate we had together ten days ago and lasted almost four hours - it proved from Eurostat's official figures that the Greek economy was well observable in proportion. Your phrase 'the unprecedented recession in the second quarter' - I say what you said in your prototype - is completely unfair to me. To be unprecedented, it must stand out. It is precisely the European average that is 15.2% of the issue of the second quarter. 15% of the European Union had in the second quarter. If you call it unprecedented for Greece in the past, it is petty because you cannot compare the pandemic age to the normality age. So you want to tell me that in 1942 we had an unprecedented recession? Apparently, since we've been in possession! In my opinion, you must make a serious criticism. The second quarter of 2020 recession was not unprecedented, it was the average. It would be completely incomprehensible and it would indeed be unprecedented to have a global economy that collapses and a "sugar-driven Greece". That can't be. So we must ask our political leadership for things that are reasonable and, in fact, not any fantasy each of us has. Now we're going to the specifics. Are we a government that, in general, small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially the focus we are talking about today, have we left them unprotected and are we indifferent to these people? But if you listen to their representatives on the channels, who, when they take me out and ask me - come out on their own - they all start with the phrase: we admit that the government has taken too many measures and do what it can, but we wanted one, two, three. No one has said 'this is a government indifferent to us'. Get me a statement from one. Nobody! Everyone starts by saying "you have done too much, we want more". We want more, it is very legitimate. We all want more. I want more too. Let's go see what we've done. First, a returning 1, 2, 3. A very large part of it has gone to the focus, very large part, proportionally larger than the other business sectors. Secondly, a loss of rent to 40%. Thirdly, regional entrepreneurship programmes. Fourthly, payment of up-to-date business loans. A big piece went to the focus. Fourthly, TENX and Guarantee Section. Several hundred businesses from the thousands that have received loans refer to the focus area. Beyond that, because you tell me about the NRP - I do not go back to the regions and all that we have done - I say that we have already sent for approval to the European Commission and we are now waiting to get it - we will take it - so that the process of the new EUR 60 million programme for the purchase of outdoor heating bodies specifically for the focus sector can begin. It won't be a loan, as you tell me today. It will be grand, it will be money that they will get - be careful - for external heating bodies that have already bought since February, not only for what they will get now - obviously also for what they will get now - but also for invoices that will have been cut from February 2020 until now, we will pay every 100 euros per 15 square meters so that they can put, when we leave the quarantine, external heating bodies, so that the world does not have to be shut down in and we have a new refreshment. And that's what's happened. So, really, we did reduce VAT, what could be made possible for focusing has been done. That is why, in the end, we did not have mass dismissals in the focus area. If you want more concrete measures, I'll tell you in dentistry, so I don't abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, in the end I did not only take advantage of your kindness, but also of the Minister, as you have seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u41	To all of them, I've charged...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u42	I was joking!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u43	...and reminded me of World Day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u44	And you did well for us, because I confess I didn't remember. Minister, it's obviously a global storm, obviously we'll have a recession, obviously we'll have a crisis. You don't question that. The size of this damage, however, will only be a loss with some shocks in the economy, perhaps strong, but we will be able to leave behind us after a few months or if it will be a structural crisis, which will take us back and of what we have experienced in the past decade, is a bet that is played every day. It's not legal. It is another thing to say, then, that, of course, all the countries are facing - we are seeing it every day - the consequences of the crisis and another thing to say that 'you see what is going on around you, so we are lifting our hands up, we cannot do anything'. Let me tell you that we are interested here and our houses, what we are doing in our country. Of course, everyone in his country does everything they can. Here, too, I should like to say to you, according to the official figures, that, unfortunately, the real budgetary expenditure that has been incurred by the government is mainly about the Ministry of Finance, but because we are now having this general debate - in Greece it is about 3.1% of GDP, and in Germany, for example - for example, which you very often want to use - is about 8.3%, almost three times. So, yes, there is a crisis, but the disaster that will arise from this crisis is not a legality and we must do everything we can to prevent it. Never forget that we have an economy that has already been through a very big crisis, it is very fragile for the Greek economy, so the consequences of this crisis for the Greek economy will be much deeper than it is for other countries in Europe. Let's never forget that. Since we are discussing the European framework, I have just seen the European Central Bank calling on the governments of all European countries - the Greek, including, obviously - by saying 'gift liquidity to businesses now'. That's the call. I'm not the only one saying it, then. I'm not their village lunatic. The European Central Bank itself says so, why? Because he sees what he's coming. With regard to the possibility of bankruptcy, we have been doing an exercise since April, which I wish the government had done, if you like, all oppositions in previous years before us and I wish the government had. We matched the available financial resources with the needs that existed at the time. We have never said 'give all the state's available resources. We were barely talking about 50%, 26 to 50 availability billions over the next few months. That's what we said. We never said 'give it all away'. However, we have said that it is important to be given forward in order to prevent a disaster which, unfortunately, we are seeing today. But I'm coming to the point, to close. Of course, this question, Mr Minister - you know very well - was tabled before the general lockdown, when the focus sector was closed. That is because I want us to be absolutely precise. The needs have now been multiplyed and not only in the focus sector. There are other branches that are currently facing a question of survival. I should like to mention features, for example, the area of culture in which workers have been in unprecedented decline for eight months and there must be a targeted solution there. I say, however, that, apart from the general measures which must concern the whole economy, we need to see targeted interventions in specific sectors. You talked about tools. You must know - I think you are aware of this - that from the regions, for example, the repayable programme, unfortunately, excludes the criteria which have been set, most of the individual micro and small enterprises in the focus, because the criteria currently in existence will be given mainly to large tourist enterprises in the way that this programme has been drawn up. There is a good programme - I do not see - but it will be directed to very specific categories of businesses and many will remain out. In conclusion, so as not to abuse the President's kindness, targeted interventions are needed. You have the financial possibilities. Go ahead the next time, before it's too late, to sectoral-type programs for these branches, such as the focus industry, with non-repayable compensation. Right now, they don't have a simple damage, like we said before. They are facing a survival issue over the next period and, of course, this is assimilating employment, businesses, lockers, wages, everything. So there must be a programme of non-repayable compensation for the focus sector now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u46	First of all, my dear colleague, I did not criticise why you asked the question. On the contrary, you did well to ask the question. Apparently it happened before. That's how Parliament works. Developments run faster. It's not your fault. The really serious debate, which I accept is not whether there will be a recession and a loss, but how much that will be. First of all, to answer you responsibly to this, I should know when the quarantine ends. Can you predict today when the quarantine will end or when the pandemic will be controlled? Oh, no. No one can predict it. Since no one can predict it, can we seriously appreciate how much the recession will be? No, since the phenomenon is dynamic, it develops day after day. If, in the next fifteen days, the pandemic falls and the lockdown ends in December, the recession will be smaller if our pandemic leads to a bigger lockdown, the recession will be higher. We still have a road, in other words, to figure out how much this damage will be. If the vaccine comes, the population is vaccinated, an immunity treaty is created and the pandemic is in place and pandemic is controlled, in 2021 it will be a much better year. If this does not happen, 2021 will also be a very difficult year. So all this is under discussion. You are telling me about the call from the European Central Bank to provide liquidity. But we're giving liquidity, we're unstoppable, we're giving liquidity. We are basically doing nothing but providing liquidity. Payment suspensions, repayable advances, guaranteed loans and ESRB programmes are all liquidity measures for enterprises. We can talk if they arrive and if we need more. But again on this to answer, we have to answer how long it will last. We tell you that we hold forces and have cash in order to be able to finance the economy and the worst scenario. My desire as Minister of Development, you understand, will be to end the quarantine tomorrow. My preparation as a government leads me to prepare for the worst scenario. And I say to you - and there is this as a message - thankfully the reasoned and prudent use of public finances by the government has safely led Greece to have power today. You said that you suggested that we would then allocate EUR 26 billion of the EUR 50 billion, if I understood the number you said correctly. I do not know that there are 50 billion euros available at any stage. The maximum we have reached was EUR 37.5 billion, about what we have today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u47	May I clarify that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u48	I allow it, no objections. Let's have a little dialogue, it's okay. Do not stay on the "air". I might make a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u49	If you want, we also bring you the details, the documents, the 50 billion euros are not cash available for the Greek State. EUR 50 billion is the total available of the Greek State plus the available European funding for the next six months. That was programming. But if you want to bring it in for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u50	It's understood. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u51	Good. So I'm telling you, so you know that we only spent 6 billion euros from the ESRB. You spoke about 3% of GDP, namely three times two, six. You only put the NSA. Haven't we given anything else, Mr. Haritsi? But you understand the numbers don't come out. 6 billion S.H.I.E.L.D.! Now put in payment suspensions, financial repayable advances, eights that we have given and all the others and you will see that the figures you mentioned do not come out. As for whether Germany has given more - because I have heard such criticism - because I have not done a special analysis of Germany's measures, but I know them a little skinny, I accept for reasons of discussion that Germany has given more. Is the budgetary potential of a country with a debt ratio of less than 60%, with a country with a debt ratio of 200%? But if you'll excuse me now, if we'll discuss whether Germany has given more, it's if you're serious about Latsis spending more money than Georgiad. What are we talking about? Is that the one we're doing? We need to have a serious conversation at last. If you ask me if I can spend Germany's money, I'm sorry to shock you, but I can't. That's the answer. So let's go back to the real world and talk about it in the real potential of Greece, which, as you rightly said, is coming out of a ten-year crisis. Watch out for the problem. Getting out of a ten-year crisis is increasing our needs because we are tired and reducing our capacity, because it means that our public finances are still low, since we just got out. Therefore, the argument you have is not an argument 'why you did not give any more'. It is an argument 'why don't you go more carefully'. Because yes, our needs are more, but our weakness is greater, because we have just come out, as you rightly said. So, please, because the next few weeks and the next few months will be difficult and because I really believe that in a parliamentary system the role of Officerial Opposition is not small, but large, to discuss realistic proposals, real proposals, and within the real potential of our economy, and not to falsely cultivate our fellow citizens the image that the state can provide everyone with anything he asks. Because that's not what our state can do. And this is a surely bankruptcy recipe. I close, saying to all businessmen, not just about focus, but generally about the economy. We are ready to deal with and provide liquidity to the market and to businesses in every scenario even the most unfavourable. Fortunately, Greece is upright and strong, the markets trust it, the European authorities trust it. So we will also be overcoming this crisis together with very great work, determination and faith. I want to make an announcement to have it in the House. We have just decided that, firstly, our fellow citizens should be allowed to take their purchases at home when they return from work and therefore have no problem for those who do not have work to go and shop and thus do not have food and, secondly, to get rid of the daily picture and movement in the supermarkets and, possibly, to give the opportunity to some extra jobs in these shops. So people should know that he can make his orders and accept orders at his home for his shopping, from the minimarkets and supermarkets and at the end of the working hours of these stores that, as you know, Mr President, stop at 20:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. However, apart from the possibilities, I would also ask you to exhaust your kindness because of the day. And we continue with the next question to you again, Mr Georgiadis. The eighth question will be discussed under number 134-9-11-2020 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25, Kritonas - Ilia Arseni, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject of "Governmental reward of the anger of illegality in Io". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the development model you're promoting in Io reminds me of a lot of Trump. The European Parliament and I and the environmental movement have won battles. There's environmentally acquired. You actually want to act like there's no such thing as an acquisition. And I am referring to Trump, because I have no corresponding model - an example in Europe. You will have been informed by your advisers that some time ago, in December, the European Parliament declared the whole of the European Union - and we, that is, instruments - in a state of emergency for climate change. I am referring to Trump because those who voted for the resolution were not only the economists and the Left, but the Centre and the Right, where New Democracy belongs. But I will talk to you about the toolbox which I at least know how to handle with the European achievements, what applies to Io at the moment on the basis of the toolbox. There is a decision by the CAC on a number of eighteen violations in the Kubara region. Fifteen more violations are being discussed in the Naxos court. The European Union court decided a year ago that local society has not been informed of the intentions of business, in which who is truly involved is unknown. And we also have complaints from environmental inspectors. And after all this, you come against the European acquis, without control of the legality of the contracts, in June, and you include these investments in the strategic investments of Greek feasibility for funding, without checking the legality of building permits, which is what is necessary for such investments. I therefore urge you to return to the European acquis. I invite you to read in principle and to be informed. Minister, do you have a consultant dealing with climate change issues? On the piece of communication you're excellent. Do you have any advice on climate change? If you do not have one, I invite you to hire one, because none of your twenty-six Ministers for Development no longer separates the environment and development, so I invite you to come back to the European acquis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I shall refer to the resolution on climate change. Excuse me, Mr Arsenis, but are you probably very uninformed or do you not know that this government and this Prime Minister announced to the UN in September 2019 the speeding up of the depopulation of the country's energy by 2023, making Greece an example of a pan-European model to imitate the battle against climate change? Do you not know that by this decision of the Prime Minister for the great effort we are making by the two co-legislative ministries for Development and Energy with the great master plan, which is already in public consultation and yesterday the public consultation stopped, Greece is becoming the leader in the battle for climate change throughout Europe, and the European Commission has already given this government special credit for this reason? Now do you really think we were expecting you to tell us about climate change? Haven't you heard of all this? I'm just saying it's because, you know, arrogance to come here and pretend that you only care about climate change, you only care about the environment, you only care about the climate, all of us want to live in the exhaust gas and coal and we waited for you! Well, you have no privilege and no exclusive environmentally friendly, Mr Arsenis, so we can finish it. And it certainly does not expect the European People's Party, since you have referred to the European Parliament, from you to be concerned about climate change! This government and this Prime Minister are protagonists in the fight against climate change. After all, governments in Europe, Mr President, who are part of the European People's Party, have also signed the Treaty of Paris and have taken a number of measures and very ambitious measures to tackle climate change. So all your relevant protology is out of the question. We are now going to the specific question you asked me about the approval of these investments in Io. First of all, I have the impression that you do not have the slightest idea of what it is we have done and what the process is. You said: 'We have given state aid, but we still have not checked the permits'. That is what you said about it. Let's go see what we've done. We approved by the Interministerial Committee for Strategic Investments with the FEK 2952-17-2020, following a positive assessment and recommendation from Enterprise Greece, for the Greek investment company and external trade and has a series of tourist investments in Ios. Does that mean we gave money to this investment? Is that what you asked? Let's go see what's next. Now this company needs to do strategic environmental impact studies, SEE, and get out the specific spatial development plans of strategic investment, namely the ESHSE, which must be approved by the Ministry of Environment and Energy's Environmental Licensing Directorate. Subsequently, after approval by the responsible Environment and Energy Agency, with opinions from all the relevant departments and the relevant conclusions from the public consultation, as provided for in Union law, the Presidential Decrees on the ESDP should be adopted. These presidential decrees to be adopted will be sent for processing to the Council of State. And once the remarks of the Council of State are accepted and the Presidential Decrees are adopted, then this particular investment can have actually been approved and claimed State aid. You blame us for giving them State aid without having checked the permits, and you do not know that what we have approved is the principle of the procedure that does not require authorisations, it presupposes the business plan, and to get the final approval and get the Presidential Decree, which is the licences, you must have followed the entire procedure that I described to you. Excuse me, sir, you are a Member of the Greek Parliament. You don't know the law process? You think we gave them money? You have not yet realised that this will happen, after the process is over and after the Council of State approves the adoption of the Presidential Decrees and therefore have legal authorizations? Without legal permission, then, they can take nothing. So your question is - I'm sorry to tell you this - and that's not a matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you haven't answered us. Do you have climate change adviser? You've got too many advisors, distracted and posted. Does the Greek Minister for Development advise on climate change in 2020? Adviser on the environment - shall we get it simpler - do you have? Answer us. You're the Minister of Development, not the Minister of Coordination, 1950. You are the Minister of Development 2020. Do you have an environmental advisor? You falsified my words. I said that you included in the strategic investment plans for national funding. Obviously, it goes without saying that you should have looked at what it is that is part of it, before taking the first step, regardless of whether there is a next step. The problem is that unlike the rest of Europe and the developed world, in Greece and in this Chamber I have to defend the environment if there can be environment and development together. You're actually bringing out anachronistic dilemmas that take us back too much. And I'm afraid, Minister, of what you're doing. I'm afraid, because I see what happened to Mr. Trump in America. I am afraid, because I see your challenge to the European acquired people, for which I personally have fought the European Parliament. The ecology and I, together, come with victories, knowledge and experience, Minister, here. So you don't want to admit these possessions. I'm afraid you want to take us back. Do you accept Paris and what we agreed on, Minister? Because I'm afraid the questioning of the main environmental acquisitions leads to the need to take us back from Paris. I wonder how much behind what else. Behind Kyoto, behind Nagoya? Do you know these texts? It is your policy framework, Minister. Do you know them? Have you read Nagoya? Do you know the sixteen UN targets? Have you read the texts? You ask very often - and I hope you don't do it again - what development model we propose and if we are against all investments that on the island of two thousand residents with zero unemployment you want to build 30%, with contracts that are in court! Investments in the destruction, investments that you're embedded in. And what are these, Minister? Whether in Io or in Greek or in Zakynthos or elsewhere you attempt to close small businesses, workers, the two thousand people of Io to close their rooms and hotels and to become workers for what benefit? In Greek to become "Mall", to close the shopping center of Glyfada and the rest of the coastal municipalities. Is that what you suggest? In Zakynthos, in practice, we do not have access to this basic asset, which is "Nyagio" and this beach, which is the "diamond" of the island. We propose investing in the armouring of people, in the armouring of existing businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, which is 90% of employment, 90% of public revenue. We urge you to return to the European acquis. If you do not have an expert on climate change, if you do not actually have an environmental counsellor, please - and it goes without saying, Minister, because we are in 2020 - to hire one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u58	You have broadened the issues, Mr Arsenis, and you have turned them into a question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u59	Advisor to get you back to reason you have in your office? A counselor to teach you reason, how does the world get a job, how does he pay wages, and how does he pay his obligations? For you, Mr Arsenis, have fought the European Parliament as an appointed MEP from George Papandreou. You have not given any battle to be elected. Worldly unknown, you were appointed by George Papandreou with 30,000 euros a month. Is this the great battle you have fought in Parliament? Do you know how many of the eleven million Greeks would like to give the battles you gave Parliament with EUR 30 000 appointed, globally unknown? So don't worry about fighting. I'm going to this particular matter. You said that we should have looked at strategic investments, as you said before. I guess you still don't know the procedure. Before the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments is convened and approves or rejects a project, is the Enterprise Greece process preceded by a whole public service, what is it doing? He does what you said we didn't do: Look. First the positive suggestion of this service comes and then the Interministerial Committee meets to give final approval. So, obviously, we looked not only at us, but a whole public service looked and made us, as I said, a positive suggestion for the adoption of these plans. But because this case with Io has a history, Mr President, you will allow me to mention it not for any other reason, but for people to understand what has happened. Indeed, Mr Michalopoulou invested, if I say the owner's name well, because you said that we don't know the owner. His name is Michalopoulos, with a name known on the island. The first investment he made, because he has already invested in Io, "blocked" on December 24, 2015, on the SYRIZA government. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, the final permits for access to the beach of these hotels have been signed - and that has some interest - from whom do you think? I say it because you're talking about economists. From the then Minister of SYRIZA and President of the Occupational Greens, Mr Yiannis Tsironis, who, when criticizing him by some like you, obviously has signed the permits for access to the cavalry of these hotels, has also given an interview. I've taken her from "dasarxeio.com." "Yiannis Tsitonis: Are some selling ecology?" It's not mine, but the question goes to you too. Are some people selling ecology, Mr. Arseny? Take this for the Minutes, too, please. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What about this investment, which he 'blocked' in 2015, Mr President, and which has been licensed in SYRIZA, both for the cavalry and for all? May I give a picture of the Minutes of what investment we are talking about, what kind of hotels are we talking about, just so the Greek people can see them, so Mr Arsenis can see them? I'm just showing them because they have some interest. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I found them and found them sufficiently impressive and very useful for the tourist development of Ios and of course for the tourist development of the Greek tourist product in general. Suffice it to tell you, Mr President, that for this hotel of this particular man in Io, where the ecologists then made a fuss and even fought with each other - because Tsironis ecologist was also telling them, as I said, "Some people selling ecology" - "New York Times" wrote: "Hotel in Io, 15 best in the world for 2018". I'm filing it in the Minutes. Take the new York Times as well. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because you told me three times about President Trump - three times, to teach me - I imagine you know that New York Times is the main newspaper that fights President Trump before being elected in 2016 until he has been defeated, in 2020. The number one newspaper in America that Trump swears is called "New York Times". The newspaper that proclaimed this hotel as one of the 15 best in the world is "New York Times". I mean, you're all so-called economists. And I'm supposed to tell you, because to be a real economist, it's not enough to say what investment you don't like, but you have to say what investment you like, because if you go to a society and tell them "I want to be an economist and stay unemployed and eat stones", in the end, no economist will be in the end and the environment will be destroyed. To have an ecological conscience, you must have in your mind what is called sustainable growth and a cyclical economy. So you need to know that jobs must be done and hotels must be built and investment must come, because if they do not, then they will eventually destroy the environment along with everyone else. So the next time you ask me about investment - I will tell you once again - I want you to start by telling me an example of investment you like, because as long as you just come here and overthrow every investment that comes in Greece, you just don't get to be trusted and spend our time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. I have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr Arseni, there is no staff in the parliamentary control procedure. We continue with the third with number 141/9-11-2020, a top-level question from the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Direct and full compensation for the earthquake affected in Samos and compensation for damages - Measures to substantial support and relief for workers and professionals". Mrs. Konnakka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the recent murderous earthquake in Samos left wounds. Unfortunately, some of them are not cured, such as the loss of the life of two young children. It has, however, left the island with serious problems, as well as in Ikaria and Chios, where the state has to give a solution, without time-consuming and bureaucratic procedures, as has so far been the case. Once again the relief and rehabilitation measures announced are far behind the size of the real needs. They do not respond to the people's specific demands for rapid damage recovery, for 100% of the damage caused by earthquakes in homes, popular properties, self-employed, but also for measures of earthquake shielding and protection, not even in schools or the cleaning of at least the number of ruined buildings, a timeless problem of the island, which was the cause of the unfair loss of the lives of the two young children. Until now, at least nine hundred and twenty nonresidential dwellings have been judged in Samos. Many professional areas, public buildings, have also been found to be inappropriate and the problem of schools, which must be solved immediately, as long as the school year lasts. The destruction of the professionals on the coastal and commercial road of Vathi, due to the overflow of the sea that followed the earthquake, reaches 100%. Similarly, damages exist in Ikaria, where dozens of houses have been found uninhabitable and others have been damaged. Damages are recorded in infrastructure networks, but there are huge rocks ready, threatening lives, houses and property. There are serious problems in Chios. Hundreds are families that will need to be temporarily housed until repairing the houses or even permanent cases of total destruction. There have already been unauthorized delays and a lack of coordination in this area, which has led up to a week after the earthquake, to stay in cars or to sleep in prefectures of schools having no access to healthcare. Correspondingly, dozens are the small professionals who have been devastated in their business, and many of them have doubts about their return to their professional activity, especially after the hit they have taken from the new capitalist crisis, the almost non-existent tourism this year and the new consequences of the pandemic. The same applies to workers, many of whom are faced with the closure of their business or the dismissal due to the consequences of the earthquake. Is the Minister therefore asking: What measures will it take to speed up controls on workplaces, homes and public buildings on the islands and to compensate 100% of the losses on dwellings, whether they are mainly or not, but also on businesses? What measures will it take for residents' housing, whose homes will be judged demolished or in need of repairs, for as long as necessary? Ikaria should also be declared as a affected area and in an emergency and should be excluded, such as Samos, from the measures announced, so that there are no restrictions on traffic and retail trade, which are related to repairs of houses, to continue its operation. What measures will you take, Minister, so that there is no dismissal under the pretext of natural disaster? What measures to support and relieve workers and professionals will there be, as expressed by the Samos Labour Centre? All workers whose workplaces have been damaged or who remain closed until their restoration, should be granted an exceptional allowance of EUR 1 000 to meet the immediate first needs, be granted an unemployment allowance for all workers in Samos and Ikaria without conditions and conditions for the duration of their unemployment and for tax debts to be cancelled, HICPIA, banks, obligations to PPC, OTE, water companies and no auctions to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u63	This question, as well as the next one, will be answered - as I announced at the beginning of the meeting - by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the timely question. I think it is a very good opportunity to present to Parliament all the measures taken by the government on the earthquake of 30 October in Samos. The earthquake, if I'm not mistaken, took place around 2 o'clock at noon. Together with the Minister present, Mr. Chardalia, at 17.00, we were, as members of the governmental stadium in Samos, in order to have a first picture of the disaster and, on the other hand, to be able to assist in the work of both municipalities and the region in the first direct actions to be taken. Needless to say, the entire state mechanism has been mobilised. Already since the first day of the Ministry of Infrastructure, they were in Samos to carry out the first self-contained buildings and even in critical buildings such as the city hall in Vathy or the nursing home, which was right next to the town square, so that the guests are as safe as possible. There were steps of EMAS, which went directly to Samos. There were members of the Civil Protection, Red Cross volunteers. Generally all the mechanism was mobilised immediately so that a second would not be lost. Indicative of what I mentioned, that is, the government step was from the first hours after the earthquake in Samos. We met in Karlovashi, we met in Vathy, where we also had a picture of the first disasters and we immediately took a series of measures. The first was that the General Secretariat for Civil Protection declared both municipalities of Samos in an emergency on the same day, on the same day of the earthquake, in order to make it easier for the municipalities to proceed with the actions needed for the restoration and hospitality of those affected. Secondly, the Ministry of Interior two days later provided EUR 1 million for both municipalities to cope with the first costs of restoring public infrastructure, including schools. It also supported the Municipality of Ikaria with 200,000 euros, after we contacted the mayor, as well as the first relief costs of natural disasters. As far as the compensation part is concerned, the two municipalities of Samos were subsidised from EUR 500,000 against - I shall briefly mention what 'parallel' means - and the municipality of Ikaria the other day requested and received EUR 90,000 in advance for compensation. What does "against" matter? "Contrary to" is the following: While the normal procedure means a full record of damage to homes, main homes and homes in general, and a mission of documents to the Ministry of the Interior so that then the money can be disbursed to the municipalities, we sent the "fence" in order to pay immediately the 600 euros as first-stage expenses to those affected and their residence cannot be inhabited, but also to pay up to 6,000 euros from the Ministry of Interior for the restoration of the house. This is done, and I personally am in contact with both mayors almost daily for whatever problems arise. Now, because you raised issues in the question which obviously do not concern the Ministry of the Interior, there was an overall government action on the other measures, on the relief of citizens and businesses. I would like to point out that it is one of the few, very rare cases that we are talking about in a double phenomenon. You said it yourself. It is not only the earthquake, which hit the island, but also the tsunami, which caused very significant damage, especially to the coastal zone of Vathea, where the waves also reached a radius of two and three blocks, flooding mainly the businesses. So, on the basis of this double phenomenon, we move on to the following: Suspension of tax obligations by the Ministry of Finance up to 30 April 2021, including payment of late payment of debts, a grant of firms affected by losses from 30% to 70% of material damage to buildings, raw material equipment, goods, public and private vehicles, means of production, including back-up and storage products. This payment is from the Public Investment Programme. Thirdly, on the provision of housing assistance for the restoration of buildings, it is finalised - because it has had to be done after all the inconvenience - the determination of the earthquake and, automatically, a ministerial decision is adopted to provide housing assistance to natural and legal persons for repair, reconstruction of buildings affected by the earthquake. The earthquake gives 80% free state aid, 20% interest-free loan. These also come from the Public Investment Programme. Also, for the flooded companies, mainly from tsunami, 60% free grant for damage recovery and 40% interest-free loan. Fourthly, jobs, which are very important. Regardless of industry and business activities in affected enterprises, either part or all of the workers' contracts in the first phase up to three months may be suspended. Fifth, once the decision to demarcate the affected area has been adopted, which will probably also include areas not located on the island of Samos such as a piece, the eastern part of Ikaria, the Ministry of Labour will adopt the decision on capitalisation, suspension of insurance obligations, and also the possibility of adjusting from twelve to twenty-four equal instalments. Eight, obviously, but we must stress this, discharge from the ETUC of buildings affected by the earthquake. Seventhly, there is a suspension of auctions by legislation which comes directly to Parliament, suspension of auctions and any forced act on immovable property. Last but not least, there is the fact that there has been an extension of tax returns for all businesses and the citizens affected by the earthquake. If I have to go back to dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u65	Because both my colleague and the Minister have doubled the number of times in the prototypes, make sure you get closer to the real time. Because you may not have been in the first place, let's not take advantage of World Goodness Day. Mrs Marina Konnaka has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. To invoke the World Goodness Day to see a government response to what the Samos people are asking for. Minister, the size of disasters first and foremost demonstrates in the most deafesting way the time-consuming responsibilities that exist, criminal responsibilities by all governments that do not really give a penny for the effective protection and armour of the people from such phenomena, for the lack of anti-Semitism and necessary interventions for earthquake shielding and public buildings and schools in particular. If you want the time, as you said the earthquake was happening, it may have been salvages for us not having more victims on the basis of the very big damage in school buildings. This raises great concern about what would happen if the earthquake had become an hour earlier. Projects which, in every budget, from the state to the regions and municipalities, even though the JRC requires them and hierarchies, are consistently classified as ineligible because they do not generate profitability in business groups, in line with the European Union's criteria. However, the population is more concerned about not announcing the measures, which can usually be done at a rapid pace. Of course, we believe that these too are inadequate because the damage suffered by residents in both housing and the professionals in the region is not covered by 100%. Nor do we solve the problem of suspension of obligations for a number of months, but we consider that, in certain cases, such obligations must be deleted, because in view of the economic circumstances that existed before the earthquake and the extent of the pandemic's effects and, of course, the earthquake's losses, it is impossible to respond to them a few months later. But there is also a very negative experience of the paces at which the damages have been remedied in other similar cases. We also have in the northern Aegean the example of Vrisa, which the inhabitants are fighting to date in a village that has remained uninhabited. In particular, for buildings that are considered to be repairable, the level of compensation you give is not even sufficient for half the costs actually incurred in such cases, and certainly there is not even talk of repairing schools and public buildings that have been affected. A similar confirmation is, of course, also made of the "Golgothas" of the damage caused by Karditsa by the submission of applications. The fact is that many of the self-employed did not complete the process, since it was impossible to gather all the documents requested, because they were destroyed or lost in the flood, which reminds us very much of the situation that has been created with the entrepreneurs in Depth and we wonder whether the way in which the compensation is differentiated would be differentiated. But - to be brief - you have not responded, although I understand that it is not your responsibility, but the question of delays in schools must be highlighted, because even for the dispatch of containers, the statements made on the Ministry's side are for at least two and a half months to three months, and we believe that bureaucratic delaying and causing serious problems for the smooth continuation of the school year should be avoided. Of course, there are already serious delays in the control of the buildings, because the JTIs are also subordinated and the municipalities do not have the necessary staff. We believe that the question of rehabilitation remains at 100% and you do not answer whether this will be the first and second residences. Many of those who have suffered damage are not their main home, but they are the ones who may have a second home, but for a longer period they may stay in these homes and cannot, of course, be repaired on the basis of the economic situation that prevails. Of course you don't solve the question. You may say that part of these can be provided by loans, but the experience of Lesbos is that many banks do not grant loans to cover the remaining amount, which is not covered by the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u67	Don't be general. You turn it into a generalized question. For Samos, say and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u68	Based on the experience of how the damages are restored, we believe that if something has been shown over time, it is also the affected residents of Samos, to uproot and compensate 100% of the disasters and protect their lives, who must collectively claim and organize their struggle through the clubs and bodies. The JRC will continue to be on the side of the workers, the unemployed and the small professionals and farmers, who cannot respond and cannot wait any longer on the side of the state, and we believe that we need to take measures and ensure that they receive a definitive income that meets their needs and that their immediate compensation is at least for the first needs of 1,000 euros, so that they can actually ensure a decent living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Two things: first, as far as schools are concerned, since there is a request from the municipalities for additional financial aid for container supplies, the municipalities can obtain it and we will see the corresponding amount, how we can strengthen the municipalities. That's what we're sitting on. The interest in schools is a top priority for this government. So, immediately, if there is a need for a container in order for schools to function as soon as possible, I promise that we will respond immediately. That's the first. Secondly, you mention delays. I would say that in the sixteen months that government has responded to the maximum possible, I would say at a very rapid pace, in conditions of crisis, such as the various naturalities that have taken place. Especially on the matter of schools - because you made a mention - the earthquake took place at 14:00. If it were 13.00, the schools would be running and we might have other victims, beyond the extremely unpleasant event that shocked us all, of the mess of two very young children. In the "Antonis Tritsis" program there is a special invitation for the earthquake shielding and the study of an earthquake shielding of schools. In particular, in schools, which are many years old, the study must indeed be carried out and various topics must be advanced. After the question and by Mr Syntagakis, because he raises the question of the school unit, I will be able to say two more things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third with No 142/9-11-2020 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "The construction of a new school complex of the Single Professional High School - Lyceum and the Special Education and Training Laboratory (EEAEEC) in the Municipality of Heraklion". Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for his prototype. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President, for your kindness. The Single Special Professional Gymnasium - Lyceum, the well-known ENEEGYL, and the Hercules Special Training and Training Laboratory, known as the UNHCR, has been housed since 2006 in closed rooms in the area of Ioannis Glossos, in premises literally inappropriate. ENEGYL is the largest special treatment unit in Heraklion, with students from the wider area and the mainland of Heraklion Prefecture - there is no other ENEGYL - and with a number of students who are constantly growing. The EUEEK has dozens of registered students, aged 15 to twenty years, with multiple disabilities, quadruples, syndrome, severe mental discomfort and autism. The children of the above schools are housed in dangerous and insufficient rooms, flooding in winter, with roofs that are ready to go, in the soils and muds, which, with rain waters, end up in the school space. Indicative of the risk is the last incident in the operation of the school that caused the flooding phenomena that hit Heraklion and you know them very well, Minister. Right in front of the school there is a plaid mountain, with constant landslides, which is really ready to decay the school, students and teachers. You realize how dangerous things are there. Whenever it rains, the outdoor area where the attendance and departure of the students fills mud, making access to the school's main entrance almost impossible, so the rooms are unoperated. Do you know how access can be made? With wooden palettes. I mean, they're stepping on the kids and getting into school. These are the conditions in the 21st century that we are in particular special education schools, that is to say they are totally inappropriate. It is also characteristic that in one room three times five, baptized gym, becomes gymnastics, labor therapy, physiotherapy, the individual hygiene of children. Insufficient is, of course, the yard, where students are stacked. Along with everything else now, with the lack of rooms etc., there is a lack of maintenance, insulation of school. Also, there are electrical issues that make up a set of explosive problems. Although the building's risk has been repeatedly denounced by the Parents' Association, the teachers and other mass actors in the region, the building of a new, modern, secure training centre proves that it is not a priority for any government to date - at least from 2006 until today - despite the promises by governments, from municipalities, from prior prefectures, regions, etc. All governments - and today - rather than solve problems, add problems. Each year cuts in health, education in special education and treat disabled people and special education as a burden on the state budget are increased. It is the same classic, anti-popular attitude that has, of course, adopted over time, both the regions and municipalities throughout Greece, in the case of Heraklion, which has enormous responsibilities for the situation and the shortcomings in the issue of school accommodation. So we ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take as a government to find a solution to the very acute problem of housing of the school complex ENEYL and EEAE in the Municipality of Heraklion with the building of a new, modern and secure school building with the responsibility of the state, without public-private partnerships, of course, to serve the educational needs of the region. And finally, until the building of the new school, what are the immediate measures to be taken, obviously in cooperation with the municipality, to maintain the building, to avoid accidents for pupils with a state grant? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthyriakis, I had the opportunity to reply last week to a relevant question about the exact same school in the House. You raise a matter which is very serious and you raise a matter which is, in fact, a long time. I had no picture of what you mentioned, about the rock that is dangerous, but, in any case, you raise an issue where the situation is a little - very much as you described it. Fortunately, in recent years, there has been strong mobility in terms of promoting and resolving this issue, which concerns a category which, if anything, does not need our sensitivity, needs our respect. The term sensitivity is much more ‘light’. I think he wants our respect, and we must at least ensure that these school children are taken care of. In particular, when we talk about a prefecture such as Heraklion, which is one of the largest in the country, it must have at least an appropriate special school for the housing and training of children who are in attendance there. In the last few years, therefore, there have been several things that have been done. It has begun cooperation between the Municipality of Heraklion and the relevant Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Education of Crete. The solution was tested for renting another property, which was not considered suitable, but as far as I know, the Municipality of Heraklion has found a suitable plot, which has been characterised as a public area. It is in the town planning unit Therissos - Delina - Mastabas - Koronis, which is characterized as a school and that is where this school is to rise. The Applicant Committee of the Ministry of Education examines the request. I will also present you with two papers and the reply of the Municipality of Heraklion, which is very important, but also the veterinary programme, prepared by the Ministry of Education for the building of the school, which has, indeed, spaces in place that suit the level that these students need in order to make their education effective. It has inside all necessary spaces, suitable space even for changing rooms, for physical treatments, suitable classrooms. We are talking about a total of eighty-nine squares for administrative spaces, four hundred five square blocks for social spaces, two hundred and eight square blocks for physical education, eight hundred ninety-four squares for teaching spaces and five hundred and sixty squares for teaching spaces. I put these before you in order to have a more complete picture of the situation in this school. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, submits to the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So because there is an interest in the government in the school roof, we have done the following three things: Firstly, there are invitations - five specialists - to schools in fact under the Antonis Tritsis programme, in which the Municipality of Heraklion can submit a proposal to finance it and which will be dealt with as a matter of priority because of the issue and the seriousness which it has raised. There is use of a building stock, there is an invitation to urban regeneration, and there is an invitation to the studies. So the municipality can testify to his invitation. Apart from that, the government - and within the framework of the 'RECOVERY FUND' - has proposed the financing of measures to build up school buildings throughout the territory, which is very important, because, as I said before, there are schools in the case of Samos, which are old and which are either a serious renovation, an earthquake or an upbuilding of new buildings. And we have the possibility today of making a view of the number of students we will have in six years. We know them. They are the children who are born today and which in four years will go to kindergarten, in six years they will go to primary school. So we also know the needs for the next few years and we have a sufficient time to get time to build up the appropriate school units. There are municipalities which actually have a serious shortage of school accommodation, mainly due to the increase in the number of pupils in the coming years. In any case - and to close with this - because I personally have been very sensitive to this issue, I promise that I will exhaust in cooperation with the municipality any opportunity to run the procedures quickly and to join a funding programme as soon as possible, to get the competition out, to raise the school. A school of two and a half thousand squares you realize that it can't be done in one day. In any case, however, we shall proceed with the procedure so that the children of Heraklion - this special category that wants our respect - will soon have a new building for their learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would ask the Secretariat to give Mr Syntagakis the documents that the Minister has submitted for his better information. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we would not like to question your intention, your sensitivity, your respect for these children. Of course, sensitivity and respect are always judged by the result, because we are all sensitive. The point is how it actually turns out to be. A further reason, therefore, for resolving housing issues, especially in special treatment, is the need for a complete social offer to the disabled and disabled. I would say that it is an indicator of progress, of culture and of society's humanity. There is one study - you will now tell me that it is not all of your competence, but to see how the infrastructure issue is related to what we say 'educational process, humanity, respect and go on saying' - which says that the percentage of special education students in the country is one of the lowest and ranges from 1.8% to 2.9%, compared to the general school population. In general and vocational schools, half of the regional addresses are zero, while in high school the figure reaches 80%. So you realize that it's not just a matter of making a school - which, of course, is the subject of the question we're discussing, right? - but it's much bigger dimension than the whole problem. So the bad real estate situation of special schools hosted in old buildings makes the daily lives of both pupils and teachers - I would say - unbearable and forbidden for effective, scientific and pedagogical intervention. If so far they have stayed up - I would say - schools and special education, but also all schools in general, it is not because of the state - the state has taken its line out - but mainly in the friendly and tireless work of teachers and parents who raise this cross of testimony. And now look, there is one topic: responsibilities transferred by the Central Government, by the central state to the municipalities concerned with school accommodation, infrastructure maintenance and other responsibilities - be careful! - without resources and technical services, without engineers, conservators, electricians and other personnel. And now the school committees with crumbs - which are naturally impossible - are being called upon to respond to increased needs. So there is one question then how practically the problems of the existing school will be solved until the new school - which I will say shortly afterwards - is that in order to meet the immediate needs of parents are forced to put their hands in the pocket, the operation of schools depends largely on sponsoring, offering, parents, private individuals, on voluntary work to solve elementary needs. As far as the issue we are talking about is concerned, the question of school, of course, there are plots which are typical of them. It's not just this in the area of Therissos, if I understood correctly, in the area of Koronis Magaras in the district of Therissos. There are others and have been indicated, as in the area of Yophyros, on the street of Ekabis, etc. In other words, there have been land that has been marked for many years. Both previous governments and municipal authorities over time had made promises with the land registers, that we are progressing, that we will enter the process of studying maturation, etc. That is what you said. I won't question you. However, in any case, and because of the dangers of this school, due to the intense weather phenomena you know very well, there is a very serious risk. So all this needs to be speeded up. Also, you need to come to the matter of funding immediately, whether it will be through the "Antonis Tritsis", whether it will be directly from the state budget or whether it will be through the NSRF and the extension it has received by 2021, in order to speed up all these procedures. In any case, there are financial instruments. In any case, however, it must not be financed through a public-private partnership. We're vertically opposed to this. So this way, you should go ahead with resolving this problem. Finally - and I thank you for the tolerance, Mr President - you must also ensure that the pupils are transferred to and from school. And I say this because you realise that special leased buses or taxis or other ways through funding regions, etc., do not respond to what special treatment children really need. There he wants to have one of their own coaches who will take them and take them home with staff who can look after these children. In any case, the JRC considers that all of this is not in the sphere of ideal and fantasy, but they arise as a realistic necessity on the basis of the possibilities of science and the development of technological knowledge, in order to relieve the man himself of his problems and difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u77	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Syntagakis, if the building of a school for this category of students belongs to the sphere of imagination, then we have all failed together as a society. So what needs to be done immediately, and will be done in the next few days, is a conference, a teleconference with all the stakeholders, i.e. the CCTP, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Interior and the Presidency of the Government, in order to start and look at the issues that need to start building a school. I think that the CFP has a great deal of experience and a wide variety of studies in order to adapt an existing study to the characteristics of the plot. As far as the plot is concerned, I think it is the smallest point of disagreement and that we can allow self-government with the Ministry of Education to end up in a place that will be the fastest, so that the building of school units can proceed, since they obviously serve pupils. As far as the transport of pupils is concerned, the region is responsible and is being subsidised each year by the Ministry of the Interior to carry out this project. If the region decides that a bus should be supplied specifically for this category of children, as was done in other regions of the country - for example, I know that in the special school in Elefsina there is a special bus transporting students - I think that this would be very useful and very good to do so in order to serve better and to have a road attendant, who obviously needs special skills to serve children better. In any case, I will personally look at this issue so that the process can be speeded up as quickly as possible. In fact, if you have no objection, I would be very happy to inform you, too, of the development, because it concerns - I imagine Mr Kegeroglu, who is here - the special school of the students of Crete who need the necessary attention and I want the best possible environment for a county like Heraklion in Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u79	Thank you too, Minister, for the time economy. We're going to make a slight derogation from the program. In fact, I would like to thank both Ministers, like Mr Kamine, who will help me make it easier for my colleague Mr Kegeroglu to avoid losing the plane and to host him for the weekend in Athens. At this point, then, the sixth question will be discussed under number 139-9-11-20 of the Second Cycle of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'To include hunting' and 'Recreational fishing' in the category of sports abroad, and to be permitted following a mission of the relevant sms'. Here, Mr. Kegerolwa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering into the contents of the question, I would like to say that we have tabled an amendment on the major disasters that took place in Crete in the past few days, on the basis of the institutional framework created by the disasters by Janus. This will be discussed on Tuesday. It is more for the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Civil Protection, but also for the co-legislative ministers in so far as they are concerned. My topical question concerns the inclusion, in fact, of the permitted sport, as defined by the Civil Protection, of an individual activity such as amateur fishing, either from the coast by pole, or by boat and hunting. We are therefore talking about an individual activity which, according to and according to the Hunting Confederation of Greece, could be included in these activities without restriction. Furthermore, it is well known that the hounds of the corresponding category - of course, in another area - with the dogs we have in towns and homes, also have the need to exercise and act in the area that they are used to. I believe, in other words, that they cannot be included in the same category as houses. I would therefore say that the Secretary-General and the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection should re-examine or consider this request, and in this regard the Secretary-General and the State Secretary-General for Civil Protection should be responsible for joining this activity with strict observance of the rules that have to do with pandemic in all contexts, as should those who are individually and with the relevant process of sending the sms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u81	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I do not hide from you that I am surprised to see that this timely question has been tabled, especially because it has been tabled and on 9 November. First of all, we must make it clear that our relationship with the hunting clubs and the issues concerning mountain protection and the anti-nuclear period is a two-way relationship, a relationship which has been nurtured over all these years through principles and values clear and through protocols, which have often been helpful during the summer period to the issues of the country's anti-nuclear shield. This is something that we have made public. Therefore, any approach to the hunting issue has no cause for prejudice or any other reason, but only the real facts. And what are the real facts? The real facts are that there are ten million citizens who have been invited to move only for the necessary travel across the country! Ten million citizens under the difficult conditions of a pandemic, an invisible enemy who is now suffering not only from our country, but from the whole world, are obliged to remain and make small or large concessions from their everyday lives, from their family planning, from their priorities, from their hobbies, from their entertainment. It's something we're all experienced and we're all involved in it. At the same time, it is called the National Representation - because yesterday there was a debate at the level of party leaders - to highlight the obvious, that is, because the hunt and the amateur fishing are forbidden. You know what? I do not want to laugh at all this debate, which is heard - and, unfortunately, it is public - by representatives of the hunters' organizations at the level of whether the beakers or the wild boars are stuck in the hunters. It is a pity that this debate should be at this level. Because it is not symptomatic that, today, we have twenty - two thousand, sixteen active positive cases isolated in their homes. We have twenty-five thousand two hundred forty-seven high-risk contacts isolated in their homes. And where's this all working out? So what's the hunter's base? What's the basis of our hunting clubs? Obviously all over Greece, but 65% to 70% are in central Macedonia, western Macedonia and eastern Macedonia and Thrace. What's going on here today? We have fourteen-day moving average indicators, which are about the transmission and exacerbation of the disease, which are a record. And there is a whole mechanism that is there to deal with pandemic. We only have twelve thousand thirty-eight positive cases in these areas. In other words, we have 60% of our positive cases in these areas and we also have 14 thousand six hundred twenty-two contacts of positive cases, which are isolated again in these areas. And I am surprised that on 9 November the issue was brought into the Committee on Epidemiologists, since there was a recommendation from the Committee on Infectious Substances and, unanimously, the committee rejected this request. And it rejected this request not on the basis of any epidemiological situation, because it also fits into discussion, if a hunt can only evolve at individual sport level or includes cartons, shelters or other sources that may have previously created small clusters in another region. So the issue is at the level of mobility. It is not possible for ten million Greeks to be in isolation in their homes and a hundred thousand friends hunters - I say this with respect to their ability to entertain - simply move in either the prefecture or outside the prefecture or anywhere. It is a wrong message, it also has epidemiological data, because a lockdown is based on minimising the so-called mobility, and any attempt to allow this to actually create a huge issue in the message as well, but - most importantly of all of it - both control mechanisms and those that we are trying to do. I'm surprised. And I would like to ask this and with great respect, Mr Papoutsis: is it an official KINAL position at the moment to join hunting and fishing in the possibilities of moving with extra sms? It has a value to be deposited. Is there a view in the parliamentary procedure at this time to go against what epidemiologists and infectious scientists say and allow hunting and fishing? It has one value and I reserve it in my dentext to assess it and I, at least, have at least an operational level.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we have tabled three hundred and seventy speeches to deal with the pandemic and its negative economic and social consequences and we would like to see the government placed on them. It would indeed have been a pleasure to read them at least. Of course, I am surprised to hear that you are amazed at the fact that it has also been raised by other Members and by your party. So we would like you to tell us if you could answer Mr Yoyakas' question on 10 November 2020 with similar content. I give it to you, Minister. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are not talking here about closters or group sports which in the previous period were conducted with restrictions on fan participation, more generally there were rules. This is an individual sport and an individual right. And why is the right individual? Because the license is individual. It is not collectively licensed. The licenses are individual, they are local, regional, general. So rules could be laid down: individual exercise and at local level, which restricts this general point you have said. And, of course, if the group of epidemiologists or contagious scientists asked whether they could collectively exercise this, of course this view should also be respected. Of course, by quoting here, we would like to say that we would like to have all the opinions. It is your obligation and there is no need for a law, as SYRIZA said he will table an amendment to oblige you. You don't have to. It is your duty to institutional, constitutional and I think it would help to testify to these. So it has to do with the question. The question, as Mr Gogos said, was whether or not it can be done collectively. Of course, we agree that it cannot be grouped, and it cannot turn out to be an event and a festival. We are talking strictly about the individual exercise of the individual right and only about it. Of course, it is also about amateur fishing, for example, in reed. The one who fishes in reed is not entitled to do this hobby, his activity, in your view, because there are general restrictions. But the ten million people with rules are moving and I think that the individual sport allowed in both the city and the country by sending sms, in this context, is the possibility of not falling all the psychosocial problems at this time and accumulating themselves in a family, in a person, in a person. Because there's this side. So don't cheat the question. You say that 'this is the opinion of the scientists and I accept it' if it is - you, that is, you accept it - but I tell you that the opinion of the scientists is about group and not about individual. Take a look at it. There is no need here to have a confrontation with this type, which may evolve to say that you do so in a deliberate way - which you do not intentionally - and you say that I am asking the question. It is not that kind of confrontation that is beneficial. Look at it. Ask the question strictly about individual activity, the exercise of an individual right, it is an individual licence and see that under no circumstances is the renewal that you announced without the paradox being paid is not without consequences. Because the Ministry of the Environment and the Rural Development have delegated many responsibilities to the guards. Guards must be paid and paid by this paradox of licensing. What I'm saying, they have to pay to renew the license, they're not popular with a hundred seventy thousand, and yours is popular, that they won't pay. So you told them they wouldn't pay. Yeah, but that's not right. They must pay to maintain the system of guards, unless the state undertakes to pay the guards - it is another issue, of course - and, in essence, to look at their request for individual exercise and not to give them a counter-duty to something we do not adopt, why I still do not understand why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u85	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u86	First of all, it is only certain that there is no question of confrontation or deception and the question. In any case, however, this was brought into committee - and I read it to you - on the individual or group involvement of citizens in hunting or fishing on the basis of epidemiological data and the total banning lockdown until 30 November. On that basis, the committee has been placed. Obviously, I realise that there is a strong discontent in the hunters' circle, but it must be made clear that in a favoured state, when we have to allow a measure, we need to see the rules governing this measure how the control mechanisms can monitor them. It is not easy, Your Honour, that. It is not easy for seventy thousand hunters to be on supposedly atomic sport, for no one can ensure that there is a police officer next to every hunter and that is not what is being asked for. You know very well that especially the hunting of the boar is not so much done with individual data, but with cartels, with shelters. It's something we've lived on. We'll all be patient, hunters and fishermen. Is there a will to start this? When the epidemiological data permits, of course. And we will start from the areas of Northern Greece, when the conditions allow it, because there are some issues relating to the hunting of feral pigs linked to some health issues. Obviously we are monitoring it, obviously and understand the mood of both hunters and fishermen, but at the same time it must be understood that all of this is governed by specific rules. We should be able not to give the alibi of moving to thousands of people at the same time as ten million Greeks are isolated inside their homes and we are all waiting and trying together - I am sure we all understand that - to be able to get through this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. We continue, with our second first-round question under number 130/9-11-2020, by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: 'Double lockdown prisoners' cases' - for eight months - the health of prisoners and officials in direct danger'. Here, Mr Kamine, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Ministry cannot say in this matter that we had not repeatedly smashed the alarm. We have tabled a question on the problem of overpopulation and the consequences of the coronary in prisons on 11 March, 23 March, 31 March, 2 April, 21 April and now 11 September for the Alikarnassus prisons. When there is misinformation and whispering, it is the one who ultimately pays it in the long run who has the main responsibility to safeguard transparency. What happens in prisons is informed either by announcements from the Federation of Penitentiary Officers or by press leaks from the Ministry. Official announcements the Ministry is pulling out when it's researching in prisons and discovers knives, spoons, daggers, forks, cell phones, tells us what he found, as if they were magically into prisons. Doesn't he tell us why they came in and how they came in or let a suspect be misled that these are being put in prison officers? The announcement they received in a letter sent by prisoners to the Diabetes in October was prophetic. They were talking about overpopulation, about cases. And we finally learn from the newspapers that sixty-seven prisoners with a coroner and six penitentiary officers died in Thessalonica before the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessalonica. Press leaks make it clear that there is a delay in the Ministry of Health, especially EGE, on the issue of coronary in prisons. Instead of informing us how many knives and forks you are in prisons, and you must prevent them from entering, you should tell us what happens with the coronary, how much is the cases, because only through information and transparency will you avoid phenomena which you yourself call and fear, as insurrection within prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u89	Minister, Mr. Economou, you have the floor to answer Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the globe on a global scale of the deadly CIVID virus -19 from the beginning of its appearance to this day is admittedly fierce. All citizens' strengths have been constantly tested for many months. The state is called upon to respond to a number of challenges that occur every day, to an effort to ensure public health and to maintain it as much as possible. It is admittedly a multifactorial and highly unresolved equation for the solution which we have been working for months with hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's duty at every time of a particular test experienced by the citizens is to stand alongside them by supporting each one of them without exception, with particular care for all those who belong to vulnerable groups. Today's debate on this timely question, which concerns the population within all the detention stores in the country, is an opportunity to inform but also to restore reality by clarifying and recalling the many initiatives that we have already taken before the first wave of the pandemic in our country, with a single objective: health protection and care of the detainees. We have already drawn up a plan to curb the pandemic, based on two main axes: measures and actions for the first and second waves of the pandemic, as reflected in the three tables that I present in the Minutes of the Greek Parliament for the information of this House. For example: health protection measures, measures to avoid co-existence and contact with possible cases, measures to prevent the health type, the supply and distribution of health material, the design and coordination of measures to prevent, inform and avoid the spread of virus in detention stores. Those tables provide a brief description of the measures taken, as well as a detailed timeline and information on the most important actions we have taken so far, in the direction of protecting the population living and working within the penitentiaries of the country. With regard in particular to cases in the detention stores Corfu and Passengers, we have directly reordered resources and forces, with the aim of limiting the spread of the virus to more detainees and the optimal management of the existing cases. In view of the close time margins imposed by the parliamentary control procedure, therefore, I table two more tables describing all our actions concerning the management and control of the pandemic in these detention stores. His preservation is our top priority. On the question of protecting the health of detainees, do not doubt our sensitivity. Conservation of this right, but also the duty of the state to ensure the health of the detainees, is an integral right to them. We are in this direction with great patience, with a lot of methodicity and close cooperation with the infectious people. In conclusion, I would like to make some points about the inalienable right of detainees to communication, which is a top priority. It contributes decisively to the maintenance of their mental health and also to their normal social reintegration, supporting their family and social relations and thus their penitentiary. However, I believe that it is common knowledge that the exercise of this right should in no way jeopardise their health, the health of their detainees or prisoners. In view of the particular circumstances created by the expansion of the pandemic, we have already had the first wave of pandemic in the distribution of twenty thousand telecards, while at the same time stepping up efforts to implement and extend the institution of the electronic visiting via skype. Thus, our early initiatives since last April have ensured the full operation of the online visit to twenty-two booking shops until today. This facility is expected to be extended to the rest of the 12 detention shops in the next few days, as the amount of approximately EUR 128,000 has already been committed to obtaining appropriate logistical equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u91	Here you go, Mr. Kamine. You have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. In the second question I asked you on 23 March - and I would remind you that over six months have elapsed, you are government almost a year and a half - and I have been raising the issue of overpopulation, which is closely linked to the cases of the coronary, you have informed me that you have commissioned the Central Scientific Council of Guards to carry out a study on overpopulation. Is that a study? If he's done, what does he say? What are you going to do? Why are you talking to us about an intercepting plan you've drawn up? We - I repeat - have heard about what is happening in prisons from the Federation of Penitentiary Officers, which is currently talking to us about cases not only in Corfu and in the Diavatas, but in sixteen of the thirty-four penitentiary institutions. Do you have a schedule of actions? How many prisons have you put the skype so that there is even this elementary communication of the prisoners with their relatives? Why didn't you take into account the question I asked you in April and I told you that in Greven's prisons and in the women's prisons in Oliveon Thebes, cutting plants had been set up, where you could have started sewing masks instead of giving, as we are told again by the electronic press, a direct supply of EUR 300,000 to a small supermarket, as we see, to provide you with masks? I would like a clear answer, Minister, on the subject of the overpopulation that is currently with the numbers of 31 October are a thousand five hundred prisoners more than the potential that prisons can withstand. What are you going to do with the issue of overpopulation, how much more so when we were again in March when we pointed out examples from other countries which, in the view of the koruna, had decongested prisons? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly on the issue of decongestion, and I will remind you that with the previous government the decongestion that took place has not solved any problems in prisons, rather more problems have caused society outside. And I wonder, Mr. Kamin, really. It is a parameter of decongestion, but you only focus on decongestion, that by magic it will solve the problems with pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u95	Now we have a pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u96	But it's not about decongestion that will solve the problems of pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of elements and a detailed description of the way the COVID pandemic is managed -19 during both the first and second waves of extremism leave no room for the most suspicious observer of the intentions and high level of sensitivity and responsibility shown by the government. We all worked together methodically to draw up a strong line of defense, a holistic plan around the penitentiary stores by drawing valuable experience from the successful way of managing the pandemic during the first wave of expansion. The pathogens that we have inherited as a result of timeless omissions and failures and we have met in the course of this effort are not currently in the public debate, because we refuse to enter a micropolitical confrontation process at the time of the country, nor of course accept that concepts, such as humanism, are an appropriate ground for some kind of political confrontation or analogy. At this time, where we are all in the process of being summoned together, we choose to listen carefully to the good criticism of wherever it comes from, remaining open to realistic proposals that can be implemented at this juncture. So we continue to work unobtrusively. In particular, I would like to inform you that the day before yesterday, 11 November, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Health between the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Kontozamani, me, of the General Secretary of Anti-Criminal Policy Mr Sophia Nikolaos, the Secretary-General of Public Health Mr. Panagiotis Preserakou and the Commander of the Second Health Region Mr. Christos Roilou, and the following were decided to: Weekly control of all employees of the country's detention stores. Sample tests are carried out in prisoners on the basis of a specific programme and with absolute priority in shops and areas with high viral load. Create special units with beds in two Attica hospitals, where prisoners will be treated if required. Allocation from the health regions throughout the country of the necessary medical and nursing staff in the local detention shops. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As you can see, neither are we complicate nor, however, we are deceiving against a non-discriminatory virus, touching the whole society horizontally. And for a fuller briefing, I also submit to you in the minutes the current situation per booking store, that it is shaped in terms of the diseases and people who are quarantine. We have nothing to hide. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As is clear from the information you now have at your disposal, every human effort has been made to protect those who are daily in detention stores. Any problems arise, solve with responsibility, seriousness and perseverance. I would like, in conclusion, to assure both the prisoners and their relatives, who reasonably share their anxietys and their loved ones, that our care is daily to ensure the highest possible level of protection against pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u97	We move to the seventh under number 143/9-11-2020 on a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papastastasis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "The problem of housing the officials of the Santorini Airport's Fire Service". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Hardalias. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the subject of today's topical question we have to come back and that is what is happening for the last three years. This story starts in 2017. It concerns the unacceptable, inhuman living conditions faced by firefighters who live and work on the island of Santorini. The Ministry of Citizen Protection in 2017 installed firefighters at the privatised Santorini airport, the airport of "FRAPORT". Both the previous government and the present, together with the 'FRAPORT', have been completely inhumanized to date. Their initial stay was in some unacceptable buildings inside the airport. Of these were transferred to equally unacceptable containers and containers, paid from their pocket to tourist accommodations, other accommodations in the summer, but in winter, depending on their tourist activity. Every time the Communist Party of Greece raised this unacceptable situation, something was happening. But that was another escape in terms of the real solution to the problem. It was never the solution. That is precisely the situation today. They're semi-stage, making more than half their monthly. In other words, we have the government to have staff in the Firehouse and to directly support the financial interests of the 'FRAPORT', which, of course, is in line with its general policy on business groups, but does not cover the basics of firefighters. In addition to the French aid, i.e. this company by the state corps, it has reached the point that the government can tolerate firefighters being forced to house, by paying excessive sums of their rent income, i.e. indirectly to finance the profitability of ‘FRAPORT’. This is an unacceptable situation to us. You were committed, with an expresser of this commitment, to the Secretary of State, Mr Economou, in reply to a previous question, to giving a solution. Sadly, however, Santorini firefighters are again in the 'Asso'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Papastasis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u100	I shall conclude, Mr President. If SYRIZA's government signed an infamous agreement in 2017, the New Democracy's present day had the opportunity in February 2020 to renew this agreement, given that the fire-fighting house has been testing the tolerances of this world for a three-year period, to set a commitment clause to finance the housing of fire-fighters who are transferred against their will to the Santorini airport. And that's why you've done nothing. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u101	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u102	Your Honor, is there a matter of housing our firefighters in Santorini - and I will go further - and in Mykonos? There is. Are the necessary procedures in place to resolve this issue in the short term? Of course they're on the way. Theoretically, there was a clear commitment of the Greek state with a contract in 2017. In practice, this contract is under way and we are monitoring it. There are three different issues in your question. There is the question of housing. There is the question of privatisation. And, without mentioning it in your prototype, but it is distinct, I think, in your timely question, there is the question of transferring it - as you say. In any case, I think we are wrong in the approach that nothing has been done. Because right now, the C.O.S. Headquarters has taken and taken specific initiatives. It makes every effort to give a comprehensive solution. Because it's not just about our firefighters, who's in the airfield. There are also our firefighters who are on the blocks outside of the airport, who are also dealing with issues. Without the state's obligation, we are there to see how we can solve the issue of the highest rents that all these tourist regions have, such as Santorini and Mykonos. What exactly is going on right now? There was a contract which, in accordance with the provision of Article 1882 of the concession agreement to the ‘FRAPORT GREECE’, had the obligation to complete the forthcoming new projects or extensions within forty-eight months, i.e. until 10/4. That's what he said. Have we done something? Of course we have. From the first moment and on the basis of your topical question and the activation that exists in the ranks of Headquarters, we pressed for the study of the construction of the new fire station, which is part of the upcoming new projects, to have already been approved by the independent engineer of the project. Indeed, it had been approved before your previous question was tabled at 25/4 and then by the Greek State. While the completion of this, despite the fact that the contractual obligation is forty-eight months, it is expected to be completed in 2020, i.e. earlier than the ultimate expected date of completion of the upcoming new projects. At the same time, there is obviously an issue with regard to housewives. But the image you present is an image that has a dose of exaggeration. I will say something else and let me make it clear. This isn't about an outfit. This Parliament voted on Law 4662, where for the first time the major issue concerning the equivalence of transfers of firearms was solved forever, with a standard transfer regulation, everyone, on the basis of their molecules, without any intervention, concludes their own circles, so that there are no more than twelve years' service in their area and some others are actually unravelled on some Aegean islands, Ionian Islands or elsewhere in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Papastasis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u104	Minister, I have listened very carefully to your answer. The image of what is happening in Santorini is not given by the Communist Party of Greece. Firefighters themselves give it to them. Every question in this picture, believe me, questions what these people are experiencing. Apart from that, the Santorini firefighters and this winter their heads will put it under a tiles, as our people say. This tiles, of course, will be expensive, too, by their poor fee. In your prototype you have not made a real commitment to a solution. In particular, three years have passed that experience. We know that the same forced path that I described in my prototype has been followed by the new switches - not to say outdated - those who have replaced those who have already closed for three years. And so they don't have to sleep on the pedestrians and benches, which experienced the first firefighters who were transferred to the airport's fire department in 2017. They've had to, they don't have any financial resources, find a home at any cost, for them and their families who left behind. According to information, the rents that have been forced to pay - and I refer to the new retired - amount to EUR 400 to EUR 500. And these are the amounts that have been rounded up because of the pandemic. If we now take account of public and public utility charges, two thirds of their wages are intended only for shelter. And believe it shows the reality. Unfortunately, there is a government disdain on important issues concerning both staff and, in some cases, even the operational adequacy of the Fire Corps itself. A recent example of this - and there are many - is the transformation of the Atalanti Firehouse into the facilities of the private road axis of the area. In other words, in order to serve the business group administering this road axis, the protection of both the urban fabric of the city and the wider area has been further weakened. Of course, in order to solve the problems such as Santorini or the efficient operational disposition of staff, another policy is needed. Obviously, it's not yours. However, there is an undeniable need to increase the staff of the Fire Corps, an increase that must be based on increasing the fire extinguishers imported through the pan-Hellenic exams, with an end to the work hostage of two and a half thousand contracted fire extinguishers, those who since the first of this month have been fired, as well as to resolve the issues of the five-year-old fire extinguishers. It is certain that this increase in staff will alleviate the results of its continuous bleeding for fire services founded in private groups. This situation will surely be intensified by the implementation of Law 4662/2020, which provides for the provision of staff and means for all airports to be made at regional level, for the ports to be privatised, but also for the power stations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, we are finally calling for the problem of Santorini to be finally resolved, to get the firefighters there rid of the obligation to finance their own pockets of mission that you assign them. As far as - and I conclude, Mr President - the initiatives or actions of the local administration of the island of Santorini are concerned, we really consider these actions once again to be a mockery in the face of firefighters themselves. The mayor, although he pledged to have free space for the firefighters to stay, finally he played the role of the real estate agency, despite the role he promised. Although, respectively, it has free houses in other public bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u105	The Minister has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u106	Your Honor, Mr Papoutsis, the truth is that you have opened up other issues in your dentistry. In any case, it is very important that these issues should be put forward, because we are given the opportunity to discuss them more widely and that many of the issues you have raised in relation to staff have already been launched. In the next pan-Hellenic examinations, the incumbents will have an increase of 30% in these tests for the Fire Corps. We will, in other words, have more executives. Are these executives enough to meet the needs of the fire department? No way. That is why you will see that the government has already approved, in the first anti-nuclear period, almost 100% more staff at seasonal staff level. Of course, a debate has been opened if the necessary data on climate change are seasonal. However, this is the case, through transparency and operational approach procedures, to be able to show them. And believe me, we'll have a lot of important developments in the Fire Corps in the next few months and long before the next anti-nuclear period. In any case, the issue of Santorini is an issue on which I insist that you are wrong to us because it will be finalised and irrevocably resolved by the end of next year, at the beginning of next year. I repeat that at the moment, it is not the ideal hospitality of our firefighters in homes. However, the state of houses and health and air condition at the level of air conditioning is not just sufficient, but there are virtually no complaints. And you know very well - I do not want to mention - that we have fifty square block houses, which can accommodate up to six people each with their own sanitation facilities, essentially to cover a shift of eight fire extinguishers. Is it our vision that our firemen are in homes? Oh, no. That's why we're here, so that we can monitor the company's contractual obligations, but above and beyond anything else, through the interventions made by the Headquarters and the HRC and the EBRD, to find a solution to an island that, along with Mykonos, presents particular pathogens and arrhythmias in relation to accommodation. In any case, this whole debate is a debate that helps and keeps us vigilant. And it is very important that our responsibility is a responsibility which does not just start at parliamentary level, but at the level of the daily lives of firefighters. After all, you know very well - and it must finally be accepted what their trade unions say in any case - that everything that has not been done in decades now has been done over the last few months and especially since the vote on No4662. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u107	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The next two and final questions for today will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. So we continue with the fourth with number 132-9-11-2020 current question of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Extremely expensive and ineffective the Engineering and Composting Factory (EMAK) of the Gender". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. The reason I think you should have given him to me, and when I asked for staff after the insulting reference to my face by Mr Georgiadis, as you personally had done to another colleague in this Chamber a week ago. So you didn't give me the floor, and sometimes you've done it. Mr Georgiadis referred to my face, that I was an unknown when I was elected to Parliament, when months before my election, in the European Parliament, I had received the grand prize - among all the winners - the European Commission and Europa Nostra for my work for five years in the environmental movement, for the awareness-raising campaign coordinated by the 'Sustainable Aegean' programme, and I have been awarded three times by colleagues with a vote between MEPs - for my work in the European Parliament, but also for what I have done since then. And against that, Mr. Georgiadis had to speak. But the man, who doesn't yet have a consultant as Minister of Development...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u109	No, you don't have the floor for that. Look, firstly, so you don't have any questions, I would ask you to read Article 68. And since we are heard by citizens, the channel is open, I will read it: "Personal matter is considered to be the reproach that contains abusive manifestation individually against a Member or a member of the government, as well as the performance to a speaker of a different opinion than the one he expressed. None of this happened. He said you were a Member of the European Parliament in the period 1999-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, it's not exactly like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u111	Second, go to third, skip the previous one. I read: ‘The person invoked may request the floor. If the President decides, he shall give the floor.' Thirdly, 'The President may not give the floor to the President if he considers that there is no personal matter'. There was no, Mr. Arseny.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, you have not given me the floor for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u113	Listen to something, I have been in this Chamber for many years, and I have in mind not only the Rules of Procedure, but also the tactics. So, here, is it reluctant to say that you were a Member of the European Parliament? I don't want to go any further now. Please go back to the subject, because there is no personal matter. Do you want to deal with your question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u114	Of course, Mr President, because you answer me, I have a right to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u115	Answer what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u116	What you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u117	No, you'll read 68...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u118	The regulation you have just read provides, because you have read the Rules of Procedure in the world, that you are giving the floor to the Member to explain the reason for the staff. Not only did you not say that you refused, but you ignored me, at the same time as Mr Georgiades was running from the Chamber, and you did not give me the floor to explain what the staff consisted of, and that is obviously discriminatory, when you yourself gave another colleague from the Bureau to the same Minister the reason for explaining the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u119	I'll read you again. The initials do not need for when there is a staff. And I have to tell you here, that I am not statically chairing, I am not sitting, I hear and I have not heard anything hybrid as provided for in paragraph 1. There is paragraph 2, which says: 'The President may give the floor to explain what the staff consists of.' Maybe, maybe. And it comes the 3 where it reads: 'The President may not give the floor if he considers that there is no personal matter'. And because I have a crisis, Mr Arsenis, thank God, I did not think it was a personal matter to say that you were a Member of the European Parliament. If you want me to read it exactly. I asked the Minutes because I was sure you would raise this matter. I read: "You, Mr Arsenis, have fought the European Parliament as an appointed MEP by George Papandreou. You have not given any battle to be elected." I don't see the staff. He told you what was legally done. Do not give another extension to read Article 68 which I have applied and applied to its entirety. Now let's go to today's subject. In order to have a personal debate, there must also be the other side which does not exist, but there has been no staff and I stress it again. You have the floor now for the question you have dealt with and you want answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u120	Of course you did not read the entire passage, and of course there would have been no answer as the Minister had already escaped from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u121	I'm telling you again, take the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u122	I am here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u123	Ask for the Minutes. You'll see what you said. You said a lot, and I did make the point that you have dealt with not with a timely question, but with a general question, and I did not interrupt you. From there on, see the rest in the Minutes and go to today's theme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u124	Without commenting, Mr President, I kept the time longer than any other colleague, without commenting that what I mentioned was the development model we were discussing, because that was the case with Io. In any case, on Monday, Mr. Secretary, I was in the Race. I don't know if you've ever been to the Race. I don't know if you've ever walked in the Race, if you've been to the Race personally. I was at the Race Crystal on Monday. I went to visit him to understand all that immunity going on over there. And that's the heart of our question. We've got the EMAK, this Gender HYST plant, that we've paid for. Its huge construction cost 120 million euros. Its annual operating cost is EUR 13 million, which is why the EMAS has been running for two years without permission. And it is now planned to provide another EUR 130 million for a new plant. We will, in other words, have given a total of EUR 400 million, almost half a billion, as long as it is enough to meet all the needs, at the moment, of recruitment, Minister, without a complete economic study of what this plant is doing. And you want another ECU 130 million to be given, without an assessment of what the previous plant did, which you are going to modernise otherwise. If it's your money, if it's the district manager's money, do whatever you want. But because it's public money, it's called dissipation. So what's the factory doing? Produces from organic CLO, which throws it into the dump again, as if it had not been processed. Then why are we working on it? Or are you planning to send it over for burning with the new NSA? It produces RDF, which throws it into the dump. Fortunately, he's not sending it all to the combustion. But he puts it in the dump. Why is it producing it? Recycling is minimal, while at the moment, because it just accumulates biodegradable materials from the coffee bin at night, the smell in Petroupoli and the other regions of western Athens was unbearable during the summer months. This factory, why do we pay it to this private person and continue to plan to pay it, Minister? Tell me an argument that stands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention the following: last week the Interministerial Committee approved the creation of two new waste treatment plants in Attica. These will be modern, with a peak technology approach, and when they work, they will solve the waste problem in Attica. Until then, necessarily, we have to use what we have. Waste is produced and must be disposed of somewhere. So, necessarily, we use the Race until then and what is combined with the Race, but a project has now been launched which will solve the problem definitively. Now we'll go to EMAK Liosia, some data on EMAK, the Engineering and Composting Factory. This is located within the integrated West Attica waste treatment plant, the Single Cross-State Association of Attica has its cost of manufacturing was 75 million, its monthly operating cost is 1 million. I mention them because you asked for them. Its operation is entrusted to third economic operators, following a public tender, which is also audited by the Court of Auditors. So that's nothing strange, it's the standard process. It is not a special factory, it is a public infrastructure, which is administered by competition to a private operator. Now, is that too much or too little of that money? How are we going to assess them, how are we going to answer this question? By just mentioning numbers, by itself, a number doesn't prejudge if it's a little, very, middle. We need to see the cost function with the result. What's EMAS doing today? Mixed waste is processed in Attica, about one seventh, about 13% to 14% of the total waste. It serves many municipalities on the lecanopladium and operates on a 24-hour basis, which means it can facilitate the municipalities that make nightclubs. With the functioning of the EMAS it is reduced to the extent possible - where possible the EMAS is able to process waste - the burial of waste in the Gender Wars. Given the state of the Gender HYTA, for which we have all agreed, this is an extremely positive aspect of the operation of EMAK and only through this perspective, one can assess the cost of construction and operation. From there on, with the review of the 2016 Attica PSCE - the EMAS was in existence, it was built with obsolete technology, of course, in relation to the current data and the 2016 data, but it was precedent, and at the time it was built it was not necessarily obsolete - to modernise the EMAK and become a green factory, as they say. What's that supposed to mean? It will say that it will use all modern methods and also increase its capacity, i.e. it will be able to divert more biodegradable and biowaste. To that end, a competition was opened in December 2019 and we are currently in the process of evaluating tenders. On the basis of the tender specifications that characterise the new factory, the green factory will be able to accept three hundred thousand tonnes annually from urban solid waste and from pre-selected biowaste and the latter will be able to reach up to 100 thousand tonnes and possibly more if there are appropriate provisions in the revised Attica RCF, which will soon be completed. I'll stop here. Thank you very much. I'm going to continue on secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u127	Minister, continue if you want to complete something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u128	I can report some sizes. They're just a little tiresome to report them. But because the honourable Member has asked for it, I will say it. In 2019, the EMAS received a total of - rounded up - about two hundred and sixty-seven thousand tonnes of waste. The annual capacity is two hundred eighty thousand, that is to say it received less. From this tumor about two hundred thousand were urban solids and about fifty - five thousand were biodegradable. With the treatment nine thousand six hundred sixty - sixteen tons of recyclable materials were recovered, about thirty - three thousand tons of secondary fuel and about thirty - one thousand tons of compost. That's the product. In particular, if you want more details, there were two thousand seven hundred fifty two tons of paper, two thousand nine hundred and fifty six tons of ferrous metals, etc. There's evidence, I don't think I need to repeat everything. These are the data from the Gender EMAS function in its present form. Its function is continuously monitored by the Inter-level Association and by the region. It is also financially, and technically, and functionally, always in line with the objectives of both the ECHR and the ECHR. I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arsenis has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, you didn't answer me, did you go to the Tribe? It is Europe's biggest dump, Europe's biggest cupcake. He's at your ministry. Have you visited him? Have you been there? Have you seen the EMAS? Have you seen the management? I didn't get an answer, and I don't know if I'm gonna get it. I went. I was there Monday. I walked the Race, visited all the places. You mentioned what EMAS does, that it produces tons of energy usage and compost. You don't answer the simple thing I told you in my prototype. He's burying this again, Minister. Takes the mixed, picks and burys it again, like the rest mixed, chosen. Do you understand that? Can you arrest it? I understand you can't arrest it if you don't see it. It's impressive. We do not only have Europe's largest HIT, we have the greatest waste mismanagement - because you spoke about the figures, and if the figures are the figures - and how the figures are - without having, Mr Secretary, as I have told you in the protology, economic study and balance sheet. This provocative decision was taken on the waste management area of the central Athens area in Frei, behind the mountain, next to the house, not the central sector, some other people, with an ineffective factory again, mismanagement with burning again, where you will send the CLO you will produce, where you will send all the plastics you have done nothing to recycle, where you will send all the mixed garbage after all, because you will not proceed to recycling in the source. Only the contractor, who has benefited so long and will continue to benefit, will one of the two who actually exist in Greece or almost three. They're the only ones who get the benefit. The victims are residents, the environment, the European acquis, Greece's position in Europe. It's shocking what's happening in the Tribe. It's shocking what you're doing. The least you have to do is go see the Race. Visit her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u131	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. You think that by saying great words, you will alter reality. As I said, there is a factory built several years ago, with specific specifications at the time, whose absence would lead to a much worse situation today. What would you like? Can we turn it off? So, you think it'd be better if the factory didn't exist? Should we shut it down and everything went straight to the Race? If you believe it, your right, but it's absurd. That it is not the best possible situation today is obvious. We have agreed on this on several occasions. But we didn't create it. It has been created for many years, not only in SYRIZA's five-year-olds, but before. It is a whole product of Greek society. The current government must manage this whole product today and make it the best possible. I have already told you that the creation of modern waste management plants has been launched. It's gonna be solved. But these factories must be created to stop the entire history of the Gender. So, what do you want? Should we turn a button and suddenly neither work on the EMAS nor operate the Race and not throw away the trash everywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u133	Timetable I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u134	The other day, last week, there is a timeframe within the approval, integrating a strategic investment strategy for these two factories. I don't remember it right now. If you had asked, I would have looked into it. But you can find it. It's not a terrible secret. It's a public document. Obviously, whatever it is, it can't be done in a month or it can't be done in a year or it can't be a year and a half anyway. I have repeatedly answered several of your questions several times that you ask why we are still using the Race. But can we not use it? So what are we gonna do? From there on, the EMAS will be modernised. It's not the best case possible, but it would be worse to close it. From there on, it was decided by the previous government that modernization and rightfully needed. Regardless of any disagreements that we may have on other aspects of the ETUC, that was reasonable. An infrastructure, which is not modern, must modernise it. The process is going on, and the results will be modernised with the results that I have told you. All the other things you're saying I feel like they're lymphs that don't have anything to do with this particular subject. As for the question you're asking me about whether I've visited the Race, I don't answer why it's funny. So should I also ask you if you've visited a number of other places? What's the point of exchanging information about where everyone's been? In fact, you have not written it in the question, you have now told me. Smart to wrap me up that I haven't been to the Tribe? Do you have to go to the Tribal to know the matter? So I don't want to expand any more. I would just remind you that with the new ECHR and the ECHR, which will be configured to work out the ECHR, all the objectives for the management of waste in Attica will be clearly defined, and the issue will be resolved in the time needed, which unfortunately is not a month or a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u135	And we continue with the last question for today, the fifth question under number 125/6-11-2020, the second time question from the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance of Sunday Malama to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The military is sinking and the government is not moving towards protection of the village and the residents' property". Here, Mrs Malama, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a few weeks ago the Ministry of the Environment announced the license of fifty-nine research drills of the "ELLINIKIKO CHRYS" in the south of the mine of the Black Stone in the Halkidiki Army. This news literally froze the people's blood, because the village's inhabitants have been living in fear of the collapse of their homes, as well as the cracks of their homes. I myself visited after this announcement the village's Community store, and I actually found that the walls are literally torn in the middle. Over two hundred houses, public and private houses, as well as the church of the village have suffered very severe cracks. Although located in a green forest, the village has no water due to mining activity and the risk of the new project "ELLINIKOS CHRYS" for the Black Petres is to completely collapse the southern side of the village with incalculable consequences, as you can see, at the level of their homes and at the level of life. In the last six months, the technical services of the Municipality of Aristotle have been sent in at least six more cases to demolition orders that are considered inappropriate, therefore dangerous. It should be recalled that there is an in progress public prosecutor's investigation and that the Ministry must respond immediately to the people of the military because their properties are not protected, because the village has no water, because the committees and scholars who are supposed to decide on the phenomenon have disappeared and because no one gives an answer to the extensive cracks in their homes in the village, under which there are mining stations, which, as you say, will now continue to be extended for the next eight years. So the anger of the residents, Mr Minister, especially now that the cleansing of HICPIA is also huge. So they ask you why their property is devalued and why they are not exempted from all these taxes on their real estate, which otherwise is to be demolished. The ever-increasing demand, therefore, is that the Greek FRYSOS pay the EVIA of these damaged houses and that the state finally give a sincere answer because the village falls, who is to blame. And also, everyone asks where the plans of these young ninety research drills are. Why have they not yet been tabled to the House? I imagine you're with you, and you're going to testify to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I'll remind you of some data on the more general issue of the Cassandra Medals. The Kassandra Medals therefore operate on environmental permits from 2011, which continues to apply. Such subjects had been investigated in the environmental study. If there was a mistake in the environmental study in force, it might have been revised in the years that have elapsed. But I do not know that this has happened in the past five years or in the last two years. This environmental licensing, as is self-evident in all environmental licensing, also provides for specific conditions for the protection of settlements not only in the military, but in general. These conditions have also been approved, and as far as I remember, they have not even been called into question by the previous government. I do not doubt that the problem is huge for the village's inhabitants. That is self-evident and I think that only an unreasonable man would say that this is not a problem for residents. We fully agree on that. But the point is, we need to find out what's wrong and what can be done. Has the state started to do that? Yeah. The responsible agency told us that in 2015 - because the problem is not present but old and even pre-existing in 2015 - it raised this issue first, in high priority. However, I will come back to this matter, precisely what has happened and what is still pending now. I'm going to go to the drilling and I'm going to go back to the issue of what has been done by the competent authorities and where we are. The recently approved drilling has passed two checks. One is the environmental impact study, that is, the environmental conditions, adopted in July 2020. The consequences of these drillings have therefore been examined. The technical drilling safety study, i.e. not to create problems and was approved on 29 September 2020 by the relevant Director-General for Mineral Resources, has also passed an audit. It is not, therefore, the case with the guarantees currently laid down by the law. Let's see what's going on with these drilling and what they're gonna do. First of all, these drillings are exploratory as to whether or not the mining activities in the above area could continue. With these drills, and once they are successful, the mining activity will cease under the village and will be carried out outside the village. So, if nothing but the real problems that the village has, I would understand that not only would the inhabitants be "false" for this, but that rather relief would feel, because at least mining will be removed from the geological substrate of the village, they will come out further. This is the object of these drillings. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] However, since time is over, I will say about the rest in my dentistry, namely, what we are doing today, what the competent authorities are doing and where the issue is today, because it is obviously of interest to the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mrs Malama, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. In the summer, however, there were two earthquakes in Halkidiki. As you can see, people are worried and very afraid of their homes, which are ready to go. They also feel that authorities are mocking them. It was supposed that last year the Municipality of Aristotle along with the company "ELLENIC FRYSOS" would entrust scholars to investigate the phenomenon to see whether or not the mining is to blame. Still nothing has begun and the world's impression is that "Greek CHRYSOS" something is hiding. For those who hear from us, under the village "ELLINIKOS CHRYSOS" digs uninterruptedly using explosives. That's understandable. So it blows the soil unseasonably and so opens it to continue to extract it. In 2010 and 2011, the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" made fun of the world by telling them that it would bring metropolitan - listen - and that it was supposedly not using explosives anymore. But since he was licensed, he completely forgot and continued to blow up under the village. In February 2019, environmental inspectors charged a fine to "ELLENIC FRYSOS" - to inform you, since you said you did not know what had been done with the investigations - to overcome the amount of explosives. I also give you the relevant document in order to get it up to date. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, according to the information of the Ministry of the Environment, there are more than a thousand five hundred blasts per year in the black rock mine. In other words, dynamite is blown down the village five times a day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we ask this: With this data, we are still wondering what? The "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" does not want to give rise to a correlation between these blows and the stability problems of the village's lands. In order to avoid its responsibilities, to resort to manoeuvres and to recruit experts to study the subject, but for over a year no more has been going ahead with any study, no more measurement. No findings have been published. So, then, the people of the Army are extremely concerned, because they know that this mining activity and the daily use of explosives from the "ELENIKI CRYS" will literally cause them to lose the ground at some point under their feet. We are therefore asking for protection. They're asking for responsibilities. Mostly, they ask that the life and the environment of our country be not devalued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer and to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u142	Of course, Mr President. Thank you. Look, first of all, in order not to misinterpret what I said, I did not say that I do not know what has happened in the area by inspectors. I said that I do not know - and it was rhetoric - that the environmental study should have been called into question, that environmental conditions should have been called into question and not their implementation. That's what I said. Not to see again tomorrow I said I didn't know. Environmental conditions continue to apply. Based on them, the factory and the mines operate. From there on, as I said before, every reasonable person in the residents' seat would be worried. I do not deceive that at all, and I respect your question, because you, too, are obviously starting from this principle, which is perfectly understandable. But what has the state done so far? As I said, there is a problem for many years. In 2015, the competent authority prioritised the investigation of the reasons for these cracks and geological problems in the village and examined whether these reasons were linked to the operation of the mines. I say that because it is not self-evident, that is, it may, it may not. So what did he do in the context of the emergency? In the summer of 2018, he commissioned a research programme at the National Technical University to investigate the environmental dynamic loading influence on the existing state of concrete construction and masonry construction. Basically, this is the geological investigation. We always talk about May 2018. In other words, an urgent response that makes four and five years to appear does not seem very urgent to me. In any case, there has been this reaction. In July 2017, another research project was commissioned at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki with similar objects looking again for the reasons why the cracks and other similar phenomena emerge in the Army. So they reacted retardably. Services have reacted. These two studies must be delivered to the Ministry at the end of 2020. We're waiting for them. We would love to have them before, but obviously we cannot do anything unless we get the results of these scientific investigations. It is very close, however, to the end of 2020 and once the deliveries of the two exploratory investigations have been received, we will assess them together with whatever other given data is available - there are other natural data in the region - and from there we will see what will be the conclusion of this co-assessment, what will happen. In fact, this is all that could be done. We're moving on. We have not stopped the investigations, but these inquiries from the beginning were planned. Just for the record to add that from a study carried out by EAGME, the National Authority for Geological and Mining Research, in 2018 did not clearly come up - a study had been carried out on the Army - what are the reasons why the village has these problems. If something had emerged, it will obviously have reacted to the state since then I suppose or even yet, but that study of the EAGF - which is not an accidental instrument, is a prestigious state body - could not enlighten us in particular. As far as I know, the Municipality of Aristotle has recently commissioned a study, but this is much more recent. No matter what the municipality does, the Ministry is at this stage. So, to sum up, I hope that, at the beginning of the new year, in about two months' time, we will have the results of these two research programmes and will be able to assess them and move on to the necessary measures. I would be very pleased to inform you, because I understand your anxiety, which is of course perfectly understandable. No one would want to be in such a situation. We'll let you know as soon as we have a new given. Completely parentheses to say this: You referred to the ENPIA. It is not the subject of today's debate and it is not exactly the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. I would just like to say this, which I think is a more general finding and there is no question of party controversy: as HISPIA is today, it takes into account various parameters. What does not take into account is the real impact on the value of the land resulting from urban data from the urban system. Inside the urban system is also whether a building has been declared ready or dangerous. There are many others, of course, land uses, conditions of construction, etc. The government intends to take the initiative to investigate this regime, to try to incorporate such parameters into HNVY in order to make HNVY fairer and I believe that from the whole House there will be a good willingness to contribute to such an investigation and legislative resolution later on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-13-S1-commons.u144	With the consent of this House at no time of 13.58 minutes the sitting on Monday, 16 November 2020, at 16.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
