ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 9-12-20 authorization, the minutes of its meeting of Wednesday 9 December 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Scientific legislation regulations, provisions on the Welfare Fund for Security Bodies and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection’.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Reorganization of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund and renamed "Management and Development of Cultural Resources", promotion of cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the Museum "Phoivos Anogianakis" and other provisions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 December 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting, in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that, apart from the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as ministers, who will be involved in a natural presence, we add two circles of speakers to participate in this debate by teleconferencing. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following analogy: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The names of speakers have already been designated by the Parliamentary Groups in letters on this subject. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr George Kotsos, has spoken for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, culture is a multi-dimensional concept, as on the one hand it refers to our cultural heritage, our fine arts, the aesthetics of technology and everyday life and, on the other, to attitudes, the uptake of history, the self-consciousness of society and of a people. But civilization, above all, is the respect of human beings, the interlocutor and, above all, the dialogue in democratic societies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this draft law has solved and overcome problems that have existed for many years. Today, as a government, we are once again proving our consistency and continue to act and institutionalise what we have announced in our programme statements. For our country, culture is a sector that can be economically viable, supporting employment and contributing to international competition, as a product with a significant contribution to the formation of our country's Gross National Product. Even today when we are going through a period of history where life attitudes are being reviewed, but also values because of the coronary, we, as a government, are trying to protect the cultural stock of each region and protect it, but above all to show it and show it as a strategic resource for development. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is based on the principle of dignity, transparency, transparency, efficiency, with regulations that are part of our broader planning to support and promote cultural action. The Ministry of Culture and our Government seek more effective organization and operation of the archaeological sites and museums and at the same time aim to upgrade the quality of the tourist product, which is related to our culture, to attract new investment in the fields of culture, focus, entertainment, services, audiovisual media. The plan for the reorganisation of the Archaeological Resources Fund does not suddenly come to Parliament. It forms part of the overall planning of the Government and the Ministry of Culture and Sport, with a view to exploiting the country's entire cultural stock and capitalising the potential of cultural heritage, with the aim of contributing to sustainable development, the redefining of the country's development model, with emphasis on extroversion. The Ministry of Culture and Sport aims to reorganise, reshape and modernise the Archaeological Resources Fund and develop it into a modern organisation and staffing structure. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we all agree from all the wings of the House that the Fund for the Evaluation and Promotion of Archaeological Areas, the TDI, with the organisational structure and the strangles that distinguish it, cannot meet modern times and its requirements. It is therefore important to develop into a modern structure of organisational and executives, so that it can organise its operation more effectively and efficiently, with transparency in the management of resources, their further development and their more rational distribution to support the implementation of cultural policies both in the field of cultural heritage and in the field of artistic creation. At this point, to give a small picture of the operation of the ETS, I would like to mention that, despite the fact that the previous government has increased over its days from 50% to 150% of the tickets in some places with high traffic, we have the following data. In 2015, with thirteen million visitors, the receipts are a little more than 4 million euros. In 2019, with 17-and-a-half million visitors, we had a little less than 2 million euros in the sellers, under half, and we had an increase of about four and a half million visitors. It is important here to stress that, in addition to the changes in the organisational structure and the way in which the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, which will be the successor to the EFF, we also create the conditions for this agency to operate with its own forces and only to engage individuals where it is absolutely necessary and always in the interest of the public interest. The aim is with resources to meet the main operational needs of the Agency, but minimising operating costs and to finance development operations using resources to the fullest extent possible. It is thus possible to finance actions to improve the services provided to visitors of the archaeological sites, as well as museums, but also visitors of the country. The framework of the possibilities available to improve the services provided is very great and, of course, the benefit is very great and not only economic. The high-level services provided to the archaeological sites and museums are obviously also of interest to us for the image that our country conveys to visitors, but also to the outside. The present draft law also contains provisions providing for programming contracts between museums and cultural institutions and between cultural institutions and regions. More specifically, a programme contract is possible with the Zygomalas Museum and the Museum of Modern Greek Culture. The Zygomalas Museum is a very important museum, with important collections, especially in women's embroidery centers of the Aylona and the wider area, but it cannot fully fulfil its aims. Moreover, the staff who serves there are zero, and it is imperative that we support it and support it. It is also necessary to conclude programme contracts between cultural actors and regions, in particular among those of the cultural entities which possess cultural properties, cultural infrastructures, but which, due to economic difficulties, have deteriorated recently because of COVID -19, but also because of lack of know-how, are unable to support and demonstrate. The regions have the financial tools, they also have the know-how, and they can support the emergence and exploitation of these cultural monuments, so that they can become a attraction for local communities. Furthermore, and this is very important, issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture are being dealt with that are intended to promote our cultural heritage abroad. The aim is to facilitate the long-term enrichment of the permanent exhibitions abroad, in order to create strong cultural and educational centres that will strengthen the links between the Homosexuality and Greece, but at the same time create Greek cultural and educational platforms of the offender of the earth. The practice of lending antiquities abroad can greatly enrich the cultural life of this country where these archaeological exhibits will be provided and, at the same time, strengthen our country's image internationally. We give the opportunity to admire the monuments of the country that gave birth and which is an ambassador of culture to millions of people. In addition, it is important that the Greeks of Diaspora and their families, our relatives, learn about Greek culture and Greek culture and have the opportunity to enlighten and admire exhibits from their homeland. In addition, these museums will work as ambassadors and advertisers of our country beyond the world, attracting additional tourists to Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are also being called upon to meet the needs of support for the domestic audiovisual market, due to the tectonic changes caused by the COVID pandemic crisis -19 in the global economy. In order to improve its position on the international audiovisual market, Greece should complete the existing framework of the aid in order to become more competitive. This is done once again by strengthening and shielding the financial instruments which attract investment in the audiovisual production sector with a view to further developing the industry. One such tool is the investment incentive, the rebate. It is a dynamic incentive, which directly affects employment and wider economic and business activity, having a strong development dimension. It is a strong incentive to stir up the flow of capital and producers in other countries with lower costs. It strengthens the State’s revenue, directly and indirectly, as a result of aid to employment and business activity. In this context, the Ministry of Digital Governance is moving towards a regulation which not only improves the efficiency of the investment incentive, but makes it more competitive on the global and European audiovisual market. I would remind you that we have already voted for L.4704 this year, which on this framework came and made concrete improvements, increasing the rebate from 35% to 40%. Another financial instrument created to strengthen the audiovisual market is the Tax Relief Programme. The main objective of this programme, which has been reduced by 30%, is the discount on the taxable profits of investors financing audiovisual productions in Greece. We have noticed, because the rebate phenomenon exists since April 2018 - by the SYRIZA government began - that in the area of the development of audiovisual productions it has not been able to attract medium and large productions so far. It was limited to attracting low budgets for international producer data. Our aim is therefore to attract large audiovisual productions so that Greece can become more attractive to these productions. This, of course, will bring significant benefits to our country, as it strengthens the world's brand name, it will act as a key lever for the development of domestic audiovisual production, it will attract investment by domestic and foreign companies to create permanent production infrastructures, increasing the footprint of creative industries in our country's GDP. In order to achieve the attraction of large producers in our country, we are introducing investment incentives for large foreign companies, but, here, more than EUR 8 million and a ceiling of EUR 12 million with a ceiling of EUR 12 million. At the same time, technical issues are being regulated to enhance the attractiveness of investment in this area. The total investment expected from this action reaches 92m euros. Rebate funding will be around 32 million euros and the jobs created, jobs and jobs in our country will be about twenty-three thousand cents of one to actors, technicians, assistant workshops and all other stakeholders around this activity. The shootings will take place throughout Greece and will be advertised every corner of our country around the world. Here I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, because, as I said, the investment incentive process started in 2018, that, in the government of SYRIZA, from 16-4-2018 to 7-7-2019, thirty-one projects were launched, and from 7-7-2019 until today, fifty-two projects have been launched. This in itself tells a lot about the effectiveness of each of us. As we all know, not only today, but in previous years all the governments in trying to attract foreign direct investment had the same problem: bureaucracy. As part of the reduction of bureaucracy, the Minister for Digital Governance is able to conclude programming contracts and agreements - both with private legal persons, social partners and non-profit-making institutions for the development of actions. There is provision in the bill for classified funds to be given to those who give information on the illicit trafficking of antiquities, in an attempt to make public shareholders in the process of fighting the scourge of archaocapilia. Also, until 31-12-2021, the possibility for spectacular businesses to return credit notes to their customers who gave them tickets for performances that were not made or cancelled due to Lockdown. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are seeking to resolve issues and correct chronic pathogens in order to make Greece an international pole of cultural education and creativity. I think that all of us realise that it is only by organising and operating the multiple mechanisms of public administration that we can move to a new era, at a new era when the New Democracy Government is carrying out reforms, in response to the demands of citizens and the needs of society. That is the difference between the past and the past. At this point I would like to close with an opinion expressed by the very great Greek and politician, Melina Mercouri: "Greek must take the lead in culture. That's her legacy, that's her fortune. And if we lose it, we are no one." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you for keeping time. We will continue with Mrs. Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA. But before I give Mrs Rallia Christidou the floor, I will give the floor to the Minister. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present the amendments tabled in this bill, namely, the amendment to supplement Article 45 of Law 3028/2002 concerning museums. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the general principles of evaluation and quality assurance in public administration, after eighteen years of operation in our country under the terms of the archaeological law, namely Law 3028/2002, we consider it appropriate to establish a new procedure to ensure that the Greek museums meet the necessary and essential conditions for their operation. The basic conditions are, for example, the state of their collections, the suitability of their collections, the adequacy of their facilities, the suitability and adequacy of their staff, the type of actions and their programmes, their extroversion and their social provision. Let us note that since 2000, many important and important works have been carried out to upgrade the museums in our country. So for the museums established by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport, that is to say, the state archaeological museums and museums of the younger civilization, we establish a new procedure for Greek data, the procedure for their certification at regular intervals after the opinion of the relevant council, the council of museums and, where appropriate, the Central Archaeological Council, and by taking into account basic conditions such as those mentioned above, through, for example, the exhibitions and events they organise, the enrichment of their collections and the percentage of their exhibits registered in the National Archive of Monuments. The National Archive of Monuments has been institutionalised by Law 3028 and was one of the originals and necessities at the time of the Greek legal order. In the years during which the number of mobile finds kept in our museums has been multiplied by the large public works, development and investment projects as well as the projects to promote and restore the archaeological sites performed systematically by the archaeological service. Today the registration and registration of mobile monuments kept in our museums, in the data bank of the National Monuments Archive, are absolutely necessary for reasons of protection. And I stress: it is necessary for the protection of movable monuments. In addition, for museums which are not established, which are not in the closest sense of the Ministry of Culture, that is to say, museums founded or owned by another body, we maintain the process of their recognition by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, a procedure which already provides for archaeological law but has been implemented to a minimum. In 2019, we certified the Municipal Museum of the Kalavritan Holocaust, while in 2020 they were certified by the Ministry of Culture with the unanimous opinions of the Museum Council, the Jewish Museum belonging to the Jewish community and two of the museums of the Piraeus Bank's Cultural Foundation: the Stymfalia Environment Museum and the Tsalapata Cathedral Museum. The subjection of these museums under the recognition of the Ministry of Culture cannot, of course, be established as compulsory, since they are private museums which do not belong to us. For this reason, in order to enter these museums on their own initiative in the recognition process, we maintain the financial incentives already provided for by the archaeological law and add the possibility, if recognised, to enjoy a privileged status as regards their integration into co-financed programmes and to the national part of the public investment programme. For both certification and recognition procedures, we are committed to directly adopting the regulatory decisions setting out the elements to be presented by museums, intervals and duration of certification and recognition, as well as the individual procedural issues to be examined, in order to identify the shortcomings of museums, to ensure their good and orderly operation, to modernise them and to upgrade the services provided to their visitors. The relevant directorates of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, at least in the last eighteen months, have investigated the museum certification and recognition systems applied in other countries, France, Italy, Great Britain and Australia. The regulation we are proposing is a combination between the Anglo-Saxon and the European, French and Italian standards, adapted to the specifications and needs of the Greek museums and aims at upgrading the musical infrastructures and thus improving the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage. We're not going to discover the powder. We apply and adapt to Greek data to good international practices in order to make our museums more attractive, more competitive and more qualitative. There is also a second amendment, Mr President, which contains seven articles. The first two are about the National Museum of Contemporary Art. Articles 3 and 4 refer to the National Theatre and the National Opera. It's exactly the same layout. Article 5 concerns the Colour Orchestra. Article 6 applies to audiovisual media services. Article 7 corrects Article 73 of Law 3028 so that the relevant reference to Article 45 of the same law is charged in the new form of Article 45 after the previous amendment has been tabled. Article 1 extends the term of office of the current board of directors of the National Museum of Contemporary Art until 30 June 2021. In view of the end of the term of office of the Board of Directors of the National Museum on 14 December 2020, i.e. four days later, due to the expiry of three years from its appointment and in order for the organisation to be able to carry out, after 14-12-20, administrative operations, banking transactions, payments, etc., it is necessary to extend the term of office of the existing board of directors, not only because of the difficulties encountered by the pandemic, but as the National Museum of Contemporary Art is in a transitional phase due to the fact that it first worked for the public as a museum in February 2020. It is therefore necessary to extend the mandate of the current administration for a specific period. The proposed provision, as I said, extends the term of office of the Management Board until 30-6-2021. An administrative management position shall be established in the National Museum of Contemporary Art and its responsibilities shall be determined by Article 2. In order to strengthen the administrative structure and improve the effectiveness of the museum, a management position is set up which will be responsible for carrying out administrative economic and technical tasks in general. In this way the director of the museum will be able to carry out his musical and generally scientific and artistic work without being responsible for administrative burdens which make his work difficult. The administrative financial manager shall be a management body and his choice shall be made by the management board of the body after a public call of interest following an opinion of a selection committee. By decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport and the Minister of Finance, published in the Official Journal of the Government, the remuneration of the administrative director shall be determined. The proposed provision establishes an administrative management position in the EMS and defines its responsibilities. The responsibilities of the artistic director are therefore amended accordingly. In other words, we are taking the administrative powers from the artistic director and giving them to the administrative and financial authorities so far. Article 3 amends the provision in paragraph 4(c) of Article 3a of Law 2273/1994 entitled "Administrative Economic Manager" in such a way that the requirement for an eight-year pre-service as a formal qualification of the Administrative Director of the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece is reduced to five years. As has been shown in practice, the usual time for corresponding positions amounts to three to five years. Furthermore, five years is the planned service of corresponding posts to other supervised entities of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, for example, in Article 3 of Law 4572/2018, as well as in the National Museum of Contemporary Art, while other bodies do not even have a specific number of years of service. For example, Article 3 of Law 2636/1998. Article 4 amends the provision in paragraph 4(c) of Article 3a of Law 2273/1994 entitled ‘Administrative Economic Manager’ in such a way that the requirement for an eight-year pre-service as a formal qualification of the Administrative Director of the National Lystic Tent is reduced to five years. That is what we said earlier. It's hard to show itself in practice. The usual time for corresponding positions is three to five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I refer to the amendments, to present them to the end. We won't have any more intervention. Article 5 shall be exempted from the liability of persons who have held until the publication of these Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the bodies of the administration of the public legal person of private law Colours Orchestra for the non-payment of insurance contributions, fees, surcharges and other charges, irrespective of the time when they are established, provided that their non-payment is due to the non-payment of the State grant. In this respect, the Colour Orchestra, which had a board of directors until 2018. Article 6 extends the timeframe for the completion of the film production investment to three plus two years - three years for the compatibility of the contract and two years for the performance of the contract - as the existing arrangement which provided for a period of two years from the date of publication of the balance sheet for the disposal of the entire film production investment was in practice found not to be sufficient to complete the production process of the works, to deliver and repay them, and the company which is responsible is therefore faced with the risk of imposing the fine on the part of the Ministry of Culture. In particular, the existing framework for the investment in cinema production, Article 8 of Law 3905/2010, provided that the debtors, private channels, ERTs and others had to invest a certain amount of 1.5%, with a different calculation basis for ERT, other channels and pay-TV within two years of the date of publication of their financial statements. However, this time had, in practice, proved to be extremely short, because within this period the debtor, basically the ERT, had to do the following many jobs: to find producers, to make a contribution, to compromise and to carry out the contracts. Therefore, both parties had problems, both ERT and producers, who were pressing the ERT to complete, while the time was not sufficient to complete the film. Since, therefore, the period of two years since the date of publication of the balance sheet for the disposal of the entire film production investment was found not to be sufficient to complete the production process of the works, their delivery and repayment, and the company which is responsible is faced, for this reason, with the risk of imposing a fine on it by the competent department of the Ministry of Culture, it was considered appropriate to extend the timeframe. So we propose a two-stage system, with three plus two years each, that is five years. The first phase "Celebration and Compatibility", which will have to be completed in three years and the company that is responsible once it has completed it takes a first certificate called "Approval". The second phase of the 'Conventions', which makes the amount available to the producer, which lasts two years and then takes the final certification. Article 7 is corrected in paragraph 8 of Article 73 of Law 3028. In particular, the reference to paragraph 3 of Article 45 shall be corrected in paragraph 4, so that Article 73 is now costing to Article 45. In other words, Article 7 corrects Article 73 of Law 3028 so that its reference to Article 45 of the same law is to be found in the new form of Article 45 after the amendment has been tabled. There is still one amendment, Mr President, which is together with the Ministry of Digital Governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, because we have stopped the procedure of the rapporteurs, please, to present them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u9	They've been filed. We'll continue later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u12	Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA. I am sorry for the delay, but I think it will help along the way to know the amendments earlier so that they can be discussed in detail. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not know, of course, whether the debate will be facilitated by the way the amendments are tabled at the last minute. It's the Minister's regular tactic, trying to surprise us. Unfortunately, the element of surprise in this case is not good for us either, but above all for the Greek people, implying that there is no proper consultation, no one is asking. In any case, I hope that the right conclusions will be drawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech with a comment on the unprecedented events that have taken place at the last meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. The chairman of the committee prevented Mr. SYRIZA's fellow MEP, Mr. Panagiotis Skourikos from speaking, considering that it is his right to deny him the floor, even though he is a representative of the Greek people, because he did not open his microphone very quickly, almost immediately. To remind you that the committees are doing very hard, many of us do not have the opportunity to be in the Chamber, and this is all very difficult for the process. So, by refusing to admit his mistake, the President then deprived the floor of Mrs Sia Diagnostopoulos, too. In his attitude, he forced all SYRIZA Members to leave the committee without being given the opportunity to move further. All this, when it comes to pandemic and measures, Members are facing enormous difficulties. Just because of teleconferencing. We therefore believe that the chairman of the committee should understand that his responsibility is to coordinate and facilitate the debate, and that tasks which are obviously not served by such behaviours, conducts of'so I want', which afflict the President's role in the final analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of the parliamentary committees at least we consider this to be a very serious process and clearly does not need such reasonable teams of children's campsmen in the 1950s. Also, before I talk about the bill to refer to the resolution of the General Assembly of the International ICOMOS on Antiquities at the Venizelos Metro Station of Thessaloniki, which was adopted by a overwhelming majority. On a total of six hundred ninety-one votes, six hundred twenty-one was 'for', fifty-eight were abstentions and only four votes were 'against'. Just the other day. The resolution expressly supports the country-by-country maintenance of antiquities and calls on the Greek Government not to move forward with the secondment of this monumental whole, which is an integral part of the history of the city and also part of the global cultural heritage. I am tabling the resolution in the Minutes here in Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Rallia Christidou, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We call on the Ministry, even now, to stop serving solely the interests of contractors by insisting on a line that only shows is ideology. I now come to the bill, I will necessarily focus only on a few articles, although we disagree on many things, as has been pointed out in the committees and in me, but also by all my fellow SYRIZA Members. Some of course have been corrected by the Minister with legislative improvements - and that is very positive - but some have been made much worse by ministerial amendments. So I shall begin with Article 48, former Article 59. It changed the numbering after the Minister finally withdrew the provisions for the Brandenburg Museum and was right to do so, since he refused to meet with the museum donors for a year. This is a fiasco that could have been very easily avoided if the Ministry had a minimum social landmark. In this new article, 48, we have long export of objects, museum collections, for a total of fifty years. At first, you've been predicting it for a hundred years. What's the matter today? Ten years. From ten years ago, you took it to a century and then in one day you downloaded it in half a century. Is that a sample of correct legacy? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have claimed that this is all about the Benaki Museum. You have even brought to the hearing a representative of the museum, presenting him substantially, as my colleague pointed out. You know well that the article you have brought is not only about the Benaki Museum, but too many museums in the country. You open the bottles of Halos, which can have consequences that we don't want to imagine. And we ask you: has there been a proposal from any department of the Ministry for this outrageous change in time? Was there a recommendation from the Benaki Museum that you use as a smokescreen? What did the report say? What did the request say? Fifty years? A hundred years? Two hundred years? How many years did he say? Is it possible to reduce the years from a hundred to fifty, within one night, while we were told that investors in Melbourne, in the annex to the museum, are responsible for the request? Is it not a shame to involve people of the Family and to use them as an excuse? What antiquities are to be sent to Australia tomorrow, tomorrow all over the world? Antiquities worthless that we have in warehouses, as you imply? So what do we do? What are you guys doing? Are you picking up a sucker, say, the homogeneous investor and sending him the worthless monuments for fifty years, or are we sending out important antiquities for fifty years? We have also warned the committees that such a provision cannot go beyond the signature of the Minister. We therefore call for a roll-call vote and ask each Member of the majority to sign, if he believes that this article is correct, to take responsibility for the expatriation of antiquities for fifty years, so that all Greek citizens understand what the patriotic krone in which the ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy are very easily engaged. On the same subject, on Tuesday evening the Minister brought an amendment, and the committees had expired and we were told nothing - as I said at the outset - that is a common way - and it is clear that she was ready. Why did the Minister not present the amendment earlier? The reason is that it changes in secret and in the middle of the night, literally in the middle of the night - no exaggeration - without dialogue with anyone, Article 45 of Law 3028/2002 known as "Archaeological Law". It makes changes which did not bring them to the committee because, among other things, they conceal the possibility of closing small regional museums. Madam Minister, this amendment cannot in any way be regarded as urgent, if anything. So withdraw it and bring it to a proper next draft law to be discussed in the House, as appropriate. Unless you're worried about seeing the light of publicity properly and you're afraid to suffer the suffering of consultation. Perhaps that's the way the intentions seem clear. Besides, you know what the world says about nightframes, that day and day are laughing. On this issue, the Association of Greek Archaeologists also issued a statement declaring that your action is unacceptable institutionally and essentially and that it was done without consultation, neither with the relevant services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, nor with the associations of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, nor with the workers in museums. It is indeed impressive to refuse to consult. So good now? You all know everything so well? So familiar with the topics, that you will be challengingly ignoring the opinion of others? I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Rallia Christidou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to Article 56 of the new regulation on the extension of the clearance of the Solidarity Fund until 31-8-2021. The issue has a long and scandalous history and is currently being investigated by justice. The prolongation of the liquidation has resulted in the extension of the cover-up to the fund for years. At the same time, we also have a behaviour we dare say that it is the avenger's vengeance of the liquidator against the workers who have been abusively suspended, leaving them without income and without compensation. And we are surprised, Minister, that while you were directly questioned by us at the last meeting and at the previous meetings, you did not even consider it appropriate to comment. At the same time, you did not proceed to an investigation into the case, along with your judicial investigation, as it would have been your duty. We therefore have to put this matter to the vote as well so as to show how many and who insist on the cover-up of the 'terrorists' that they have made with public money. I now come to Article 58 for the EMEA. How successful this article is is also seen by the reaction of film unions. The Association of Greek Filmmakers, the Association of Filmmakers of Northern Greece, the Association of Filmmakers of Greek Filmmakers, the Association of Greek Television Technicians, the Panhellenic Association of Ethiopian Filmmakers, the Panhellenic Federation of Acroama View, the Association of Independent Producers of Audiovisual Works, the Association of Greek Actors, the Greek Academy of Film, all ask you to withdraw the article. I am tabling the relevant text in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Christidou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Questions are specifically, very specifically: How is it possible with Greek taxpayers' money to pay invoices abroad? What mechanism will the EMCDDA control foreign tariffs, whether they are true or overshadowed? Third question: Who can determine whether there are errors, omissions, from the reports of the sworn accountants hired on behalf of a foreign company? And the main question: Do you understand that by this arrangement you are driving Greek workers into the film area into unemployment, reductions in pay, transfer of companies' headquarters to other countries, Bulgaria, Cyprus, etc.Huh? We're afraid you understand it and don't do it by mistake. It's the continuation, you know, of the Prime Minister's image photographed with Tom Hanks in Antiparos. The country's Prime Minister himself went in person to give the Greek passport to a good actor and sincere friend of Greece. You know, the work of the Prime Minister, in addition to such communal movements, we wonder whether it is also focused on the practical support of Greek filmmakers, who are the real ambassadors of Greek contemporary culture abroad? For the Zygomalas Museum we told you, since the local society reacts, that you withdraw the article. For the antiquities that belong to the public and you give them to the Historical Museum of Crete, even those intended for the new museum of Mesara, we asked you and the Association of Greek Archaeologists, but you did not answer. In order to strengthen the LFSD with staff and the necessary, appropriate changes to its establishment plan, so that no legal person under private law needs to be set up, we have told you as well in the committees. We will obviously vote against Article 5. I shall therefore refer to the amendments we tabled as SYRIZA. You replied to us the other day, when we had left the committee room, that you were positive to all, but you refer them to the bells. The Greek Book Association has already made a statement protesting about this attitude. On Tuesday morning the artists, the Panhellenic Federation of View - Acrossama and the Association of Greek Actors presented a protest to the Ministry, keeping all the means of protection, asking to meet you. In vain. The indifference you show to the people of culture will really be unforgettable to us. We'll call you back and see you again for as long as it takes. The aggregations organized in the clubs, by the clubs, for the musicians, the actors, the artists in general, are shameful for the Ministry, it is shameful for the country. Take substantial measures at last. Don't look real. Don't tell us that it's not your responsibility and your responsibility, and it's none of your business, and that it's the work of other ministers. At this very difficult time when civilization has you at the ministerial wheel, you have to undertake to defend him, and him and his people. And unfortunately, Minister, you have delayed features, and instead of addressing the urgent needs of the people of culture, you are only interested in how antiquities will go abroad. We're really sorry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Mr Bougas insists and asks for the floor for a minute, for small intervention. What's it about, Mr. Bouga?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I asked for the floor on this matter. Mrs Schleicher has referred to an incident which took place in the committee responsible during the debate and the preparation of the draft law you brought before us today and I would not have taken the floor if it were not for the chairman of the committee and for the authority of the committee chairman to be protected. Because it is well known that the chairman has not gotten used to the members of the committee and colleagues in anti-democratic behaviour. On the contrary, SYRIZA has become accustomed to showing on the committees, Mr. Spirtzi recently. I wanted, therefore, to be restored to the order - I was not present, but I was informed of the fact - that the fact is as follows: because of a bad connection, it was not possible for Mr Skouriakos to speak, who had the floor and who was given the floor by the President to another colleague in the committee. In the course of which the other colleague was speaking, Mr Skouricos was asked to speak and to speak. This was not allowed by the President and it was the occasion to set up a communication show by SYRIZA and leave the committee. I say that to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, please speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u17	No, it can't. It's not you. Mr. Bougas is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u19	There's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, there should not be such matters in plenary, nor should the chairman of the committee raise a question about what he said about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u21	All right, Mr. Buga. Please. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, excuse me, you are a parliamentary representative! Now they just showed it to me and I saw it. I'm so sorry. I want you to know I hadn't seen it! Please have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u22	It's okay. Mr President, I understand that. I just need a minute. Because the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman probably did not follow the process at all, it did not do so at all. The President of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, Mr Stylis, has often made such contributions, which are not justified. I was deported from the Minutes something I said to the Minister - I think the Minister has proved that she does not need to defend and protect herself - and she really did away with the speech of Mr. Skouriakou - it sounded fine - to remove the speech after me, in an authoritarian way. There are the sounds, I hope, so that you can see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, please speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u24	There's no need now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u25	In any case, in order not to eat time, by the speakers, I have asked the Conference of Presidents to see the subject of the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u28	There is no staff, he is a parliamentary representative. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative spokesman. I'll talk to you later on in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u29	The rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, culture for all of us is a public good and the most dynamic pillar of our country. The protection and enhancement of our cultural stock while at the same time ensuring modern creation are the main axes of the proposals of the Change Movement. Minister, in the unprecedented crisis of culture created by pandemic conditions, we have proposed to you that the Cultural Aid Fund should be set up, with immediate funding from the funds allocated to self-government which were not short. That's up to 87 million euros. Let me remind you, Minister, that the world of culture even today awaits answers from all of us in its time-consuming demands, such as the absence of the highest degree for graduates of public and private artistic studies, such as for insecure working relationships and collective labour contracts in culture. Today, ladies and gentlemen, culture is under enormous pressure. That is why they need - I would say - long-term and sustainable policies. And that, Minister, let her be kept and answered as soon as possible by you. On the bill, ladies and gentlemen, the need to modernise in particular the Archaeological Resources Fund was a constant demand for workers and cultural actors. I would remind you that the fund operates under the 1977 Act, a law of another time, which - I would say - continuous administrative malfunctions in the fund. Today, therefore, the Archaeological Resources Fund is reorganised and reconstructed and renamed to the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources. Basically, the organization enters a new era. That is why its main objectives must be to increase cultural resources, to protect our archaeological sites and museums, and to create modern infrastructure for visitors. In fact, Minister, an end to archaeological sites without infrastructure, without refreshments and staffed and integrated sales. I would remind you that until recently, forty-five to sixty refreshments of the country in museums were closed. It is an image that does not honor our museums or our cultural monuments. Ladies and gentlemen, the new agency, the GPSD, the Agency for the Management of Development and Cultural Resources remains a legal person governed by public law, which is of particular importance to its functioning and, of course, serves the public interest. What should concern us, Minister, is the prospect of creating a legal person governed by private law managing the resources of the LAG, a legal person who had legislated and voted - to remind us - the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with Law 4551/2018. But I guess today SYRIZA forgot his vote from the then SYRIZA - ANEL government and complained to the committee we were discussing it and today is against it! They are thoughts 'I am voting - I am voting'. Our proposal, Minister, is clear and firm. The Change Movement, the PASOK, in 2018 we voted against the creation of the legal person private law by the MSF and today we ask you to clarify why another legal person, Ms. Minister, is needed, what will be its structure and what its responsibilities are and why it cannot respond to the management of real estate, refreshments or sellers itself. Even after the legislative improvements you have brought, I would say that this ambiguity - the creative ambiguity of SYRIZA, as they said - remains. Look at it. We expect a very clear answer from you. Now, with regard to the expenditure and structure of the Agency, it is positive that you have made the corrections to our proposals that you accepted them, as in Articles 26 and 27, so that there are clear responsibilities for the services of the OSH. It is also good to extend the overtime compensation to the secretaries of the central councils, and we have also proposed and accepted you. However, Minister, the transfer of expenditure for overtime work by the archaeological guards and cleaning staff from the LAG to the Ministry of Culture after two years has no justification. Look. It's all right. However, I would say that to date the process has been progressing smoothly and so it should continue. As far as staff are concerned, the new agency, ladies and gentlemen, assumes broad responsibilities and needs to be given the appropriate resources to enable it to function. Madam Minister, we have also stressed in the debate on the articles and on the principle that three hundred staff posts are not enough. It needs to be increased. We told you to proceed directly to recruitment. I would remind you that a large part of the employees of the ETUC are approaching retirement. And at the same time we asked you to safeguard the rights of existing staff. I'm closing my position on the DAPD on the issue of archbishops. We have tabled an amendment which restores a time-consuming, I would say, injustice. Archaeological guards are the people who actually keep the archaeological sites open. They work on a permanent basis, beyond the 50th day, and this 50 to 60 days more than any other employee, and I would say many times under adverse conditions. Their work, Minister, on this sixth day is not currently counted on pensions. It is time for the state, I would say, to give a definitive solution to this problem. That is why we ask you to accept the amendment. I know yours isn't up to you. Let us consult Mr Brutsis and Mr Stakoura and accept the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the donation of the Brana Museum to the Greek public, we, the Change Movement, have raised it several times. I personally referred to the Brandenburg Museum in my place in this Chamber on 17 July 2020 and on 20 November 2020, asking you, Minister, to come to discuss the relevant bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the Brandenburg Museum, however, in Lesvos is a monument. Created by the family of Odysseus Elytis. It was restored and turned into a museum by the cultural company "ARCHIPELAGOS", a group - I would say - of distinguished people of culture. Since 2017, the museum’s donation process has been initiated by the company “ARCHIPELAGOS”. So what's left? The acceptance of the donation from the Ministry of Culture by voting on a bill, which the government - to remind SYRIZA's colleagues - has never done. Its responsibilities, resulting in this notary donation act eventually ending in March 2019, i.e. for SYRIZA days. Today, of course, SYRIZA's colleagues are crying over 'poor milk'. This bill has included - I would say - in its original form the establishment of the Branas Museum, provisions which were subsequently withdrawn. And that's why? Because it emerged that the provisions of the bill did not comply with the terms of the notary donation act, a document which had not been communicated either to the members of the committee, nor indeed to Members of Parliament, so that they were unknown - unknown! - Ladies and gentlemen, the terms of donation to the Members. In fact, I would say here - to everyone's surprise - that the Minister informed us that the notary act of donation was not found in the Minister's protocol after the changing leadership of the Ministry, which I would say is inappropriate in a modern state, particularly in the digital age. That is why, Minister, this has to be investigated in depth, because otherwise there is no continuity of the state. However, Minister, in cooperation with the donor company, to form the framework for the next day of the Brandenburg Museum and with respect for its history and the donation of the donor company "ARCHIPELAGOS" to come back for discussion and vote for it and accept the donation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only say what I mentioned about the state's continuity. Take your conclusions and, in particular, the citizens in particular, why red tape is mingling. We come to the theme, ladies and gentlemen, of the export of antiquities and of the cooperation of the Benaki Museum and the Museum of Greek Culture of Melbourne. In fact, you have tabled an amendment to that effect, Minister. What we have to say, however, is that Greece is the valley of culture, which it transmitted to the ends of the earth. Today civilization, ladies and gentlemen, is a powerful tool in strengthening our country's international relations with the outside world, especially our links with the Ombudsman. With the support of the extroverty of the museums, Philhellenicism emerges, our homeland and cultural heritage are being promoted in Greeks abroad, but also in citizens of other countries, that is, the citizens of the earth. At the same time, with the promotion of our antiquities in exhibitions abroad and with the lending under the control of the public and especially of the CSCE, antiquities can be given for the benefit of the people of the earth and the dissemination of our Greek cultural heritage, which must be projected abroad not by illegal actions and unlawful actions and with theft of antiquities, as has been the case with the marbles of the Parthenon, for which I would say that a timely struggle for all of us is to return to our homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, today let us not forget that we are in another era in the digital age. There are ways of ensuring transparency and continuity of the state - and I would say here - and the effective protection of our antiquities both in Greece and abroad. All this, of course, applies on a basic condition, which is what I have set out from the outset and is the continuation of the state and compliance with the transnational agreements. As long as that's data, we have nothing to fear. On the contrary, where there are agreements, illegal, illegitimate actions and archipelago are being fought. Keep this and I believe that we have nothing to fear, when our state is organised and when there is continuity in it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Benaki Museum is a legal person of private law, it has a long history of great value to the cultural area. The state must stand - I would say here - a man to the needs of the museum in order to fulfil its objectives, especially in the context of the conditions that the pandemic forms. It is a special honour for our country that the prospect that is being opened through the collaboration of the Benaki Museum and the Museum of Greek Culture of Melbourne for the creation of a museum of Greek culture in a historic building in the centre of Melbourne and this is also through a great investment. The exhibits, ladies and gentlemen, in Melbourne, will work as ambassadors to our country, bringing the Greeks abroad closer, so also foreign citizens closer to our history and our cultural heritage. We have stressed from the outset that the conditions under which this cooperation is to be implemented must be clear and rigorously controlled by the Ministry and the Central Archaeological Council, that is to say, to know and control the Greek state which specific antiquities will be borrowed abroad and on what terms. We have all said here in this Chamber that fifty plus fifty years has been much. We have told you, Minister, that after the proposal of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, twenty-five plus twenty-five are many. See 15 plus fifteen, 20 plus twenty. With your amendment, however, Minister, you are amending the article of the archaeological law on the notion of museums and including in this new regulation the possibility of lending antiquities abroad for twenty-five years with the possibility of renewal for another twenty-five years. You have explicitly stated that this provision does not apply to museums founded and operated by the Ministry of Culture. However, Minister, you should tell us why the change of Article 45 of the archaeological law is done by means of an amendment and also explain to us what changes are needed in the institutional framework of the museums that come with this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, on audiovisual projects grants, the EMCDDA, the new framework for grants has been formulated five months ago, and today in Article 58, it is foreseen that invoices from foreign companies may be subsidised up to 50% of the eligible costs. This provision, ladies and gentlemen, can in theory attract foreign production, creating wealth in our country and jobs, which is a matter for all of us. However, such a possibility, ladies and gentlemen, must be made conditional, because in its current form, Minister, it favours large productions abroad, leads to a loss of revenue for the public and tax and contributions, particularly jeopardising the Greek productions, as well as the employment of Greek rates, that is to say, what we have to arm ourselves here today. That is why we are proposing, firstly, that foreign invoices be eligible for a percentage of total staff remuneration, so that Greek rates are also included in them in all categories. Secondly, we propose that payments should be made by a bank account to check their route. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. Thirdly, tax pay at the source of income, so where? - in Greece, by strengthening public revenues. These are proposals, Minister, which can attract investments without endangering - I would say - the future of the Greek rates. Finally, Article 60 of the bill extends until 31/12-2021 the possibility for cultural enterprises to issue credit notes instead of a refund, which is for representations that have been cancelled or deferred because of the pandemic. Madam Minister, it is a necessary one - I would say - and welcome aid, which must, however, be combined with further measures to support businesses and the people of culture. Today these people are struggling to stand, especially in the judgment and pandemic of the coronary. To conclude, I shall now refer to the amendment by the Secretary of Sports on the timing of the elections of the sports federations for 2020, elections directly linked to the registration of sports clubs in the register of the General Secretariat of Sports until 31-12-2020. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, no one disagrees with the existence of a register, in order to register actively unions and eliminate the phenomenon of unions - seals that we have experienced in the past and we have all denounced it and actually no one praised it. However, I fear, Minister, that today we are in danger of reaching the opposite bank, because, as we have said on several occasions, the register must be open, inclusive, and not work to control a electorate. Even practically, I'd say, if we're talking about it, the register has evolved into a process-driven time-consuming process. Thousands of unions are left and waiting for their registration to be completed and are faced with bureaucratic deadlocks. In fact, in the midst of this pandemic they are growing. I very much doubt that these associations will be able to register. Their exclusion from the elections and the use of public sports facilities is therefore unacceptable. We remember our roots too. Finally, on the issue of football, we expect the Minister to present to Parliament the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA on the improvement and upgrading of Greek culture, as well as the Memorandum of Cooperation signed on 25 February 2020 following the meeting of the Prime Minister with the leaders of FIFA and UEFA. I think that citizens, fans and we are entitled to know the developments of the Greek football by depositing this holistic study. Mr President, as you can see, I did not have to take my dentistry, so I shall also have a right to secondary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u31	You'll have two minutes of your denture, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u32	I am going to need it, Mr President, to put it to the rest of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Delis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no new debate on the modernisation of the Archaeological Resources Fund and on its problems. On the contrary, it has several years. But why is the government now opting to vote for the new regulations on the EQU? The answer is, of course, in the outbreak of the new economic crisis, which she deafened and for which the coronary was the catalyst and not the main cause, as most of you want to present it. In this landscape, therefore, accelerating the archaeological resource fund, FDAP now, the Agency for the Management and Evaluation of Cultural Property, is a step forward in the fight against the capitalist crisis, i.e. exiting it with the least consequences. Exit for who? But for business groups, of course, since, as we know, the costs and burdens of fighting the capitalist crisis are always borne on the people's backs. So the recipe for the Archaeological Resources Fund is simple and tested. This moves forward, turns into a Agency for the Management and Evaluation of Cultural Resources, as we have said, LDCs. This is, of course, not a simple and innocent naming development, but, as we will show below, it is about setting up a purely business organisation that is intended to broaden trade and open up new fields of entrepreneurship in the cultural heritage of our country, of course, in the context of the so-called extroversion policy, this so beloved word of the big traders. The dual objective: on the one hand, the increase in profits of large businesses in the cultural industry, business groups in tourism and transport, attracting tourists on the basis of the comparative advantages of the country, which are not only small and which are not only the archaeological sites of our country, but also their combination with the natural environment, agricultural products, modern culture, and on the other, the concentration of money with exploitation and not only cultural but, on the other, any resource, such as flipping and wild mints. All this money that is collected will be channelled in turn by the Ministry of Culture in various ways again to the business groups of the so-called "cultural industry" and "creative economy" and not, of course, to the people who are striving for culture every day, such as the employees, the self-employed, these small entrepreneurs, artists who are hard and costly, of course, trying to serve art and culture and who, of course, are all of the biggest victims of the crisis and who, when they come out, are extremely tired of the crisis. All of these, like art and culture, will be limited to the mere amounts of state budgets, which will not exceed 0.04% symbolic and, indeed, a constant downward trend. The bill provides that part of this revenue, that is to say, the FDA, will also be channelled to pay the officials of the Ministry of Culture. In other words, the State is relieved of its obligation to pay its employees from the ordinary state budget and the worst of all is that the payroll of several employees of the Ministry will depend on whether or not the business activities, the business of this organization, of the ODP will go well. With basic merchandise, therefore, the cultural heritage, this organization, or better this business operator, to be honest, the LAG, will be active in the capitalist market in diverse forms, either directly as a trader himself either as part of business groups or as a hirer of cultural monuments, sites and goods. Here, in other words, we are not only talking about any admission tickets, but about an entire business logic with which you 'block' them to operate from now on, as the replacement agency of the HSF. You will now tell me: 'Well, entrepreneurship in our cultural heritage now starts?' Of course not! The plan was served by all the governments and, lastly, by SYRIZA. And today's voice is extremely revealing, since the central rapporteur of SYRIZA has not today found a single word saying about the first part of the bill, the first forty-five articles which are also the heart of this bill on entrepreneurship and the commercialisation of culture. Silence agreement is called this. He talked about everything else except this, except the core of the bill. What is now being attempted by this bill is the same, since, as the entrepreneurship in culture has said, it is not a new fruit, but in a more systematic way and by removing those burdens, as you say, which have been left of the past, such as archaeology. But let us look at all this a little more specifically. From the beginning of his second article, the aims of the LAG are clear: "The increase in economic resources from the visits of archaeological sites, historical sites, monuments and museums, the provision of services to visitors and the use of real estate". How do financial resources increase from visits? But of course, first of all, the tickets. Here are the elements in the explanatory statement. In the five years, therefore, from 2015 to 2019, the increase in visits was 34%. Do you know how much the increase in receipts was at the same time? It was 144%. Receipts, that is, increased four times more than visits. This was because the tickets to the archaeological sites and museums doubled and tripled in some cases. Of course, this feat is credited by the SYRIZA government, but also by New Democracy! He's keeping it fine! Now think, Minister, how a popular family can pay these tickets to visit an archaeological site or museum. Unless, as you said, choose to go to Knossos one Sunday of a winter month, if one of the two parents happens not to work - because, you know, Sunday holidays are going slowly - because only on the first Sundays of the winter months are free. First, therefore, an impact with the new organization, the LAPD, is that access to the ancient heritage will be made even more accurate, because this logic leads with mathematical accuracy to the increase in ticket prices and the new pretext that archaeological sites will, he says, offer more upgraded services. Thus, it is not excluded with the logic of increasing economic resources to see even schools pay tickets to museums and archaeological sites. We won't be surprised at all. The same article, the second one, provides, inter alia, for the linking of cultural heritage with the cultural industries, the creative economy, with the possibility of participating in financial schemes involving national, European, international funding and investment institutions. What you've heard is not a targeting of an anonymous company. It is the purpose of the Cultural Property Management Agency. In short, cultural heritage is treated with strong economic conditions, with the exclusive criterion of capitalist profit and, of course, with what this implies for the content that will be attributed to it and for the role that this heritage will play in order to attract customers. Wait a minute, though. Did the monuments and all the creations of a people's cultural heritage have a businessman or a company as the owner with the right to use them, or are these collective people's property as a universal creation? You know, the answer to this question also defines the political line of each party in culture. Anyone who chooses the second, such as us, the JRC, then treats cultural heritage as a valuable invaluable deposit, which can contribute to better knowledge of the past that helps understand the present. The JRC therefore considers access to cultural heritage as a universal right, which must be guaranteed by the state. However, anyone who chooses the first, as the government does, the Change Movement, but also SYRIZA - and this has shown it and shows it with its works, but also with today's voice, of course, about the most important part of this bill - then not only allows, but also encourages cultural heritage to become an investment area of business interests. It is therefore no wonder that cultural heritage is treated by the bill as an immovable property of high objective value, nor that the infamous use of archaeological sites is nothing but a commercial use that is completely irrelevant to the nature and content of the archaeological site, with a view to obtaining revenue. This is why the establishment of a legal person of private law by the Cultural Property Responsibility Agency is also provided for in order to make uncontrolled use of this property. What a pedagogical role now of museums and cultural heritage! This educational role goes for a walk, additionally loaded with the ministerial charge of idealism. But to say things the way they are. It is a vulgar good reason, which pervades the entire bill and leads to the desecration of archaeological sites! One of the blasphemers in the bitching of the country's archaeological wealth and in the insulting of the feelings of our people for its ancient and total cultural heritage! This was the case with the Temple of Poseidon and the fashion show in Sounio, or with the increase of the building coefficient around the Acropolis or with the plans - do not forget - to build a casino around ancient monuments by previous governments, as SYRIZA did with the former airport of Greek. I mean, imagine what's going on from now on. And with the boulder now the monuments and archaeological sites are meant when as a decorative decor for parties or other secular events and when as a nice background for advertising! Now let's go to the rest of the bill. Article 46 refers to the programming contract between the Museum of Modern Greek Culture and the Zygomalas Museum here at the Aylona. Although some negative points have been removed from the Minister, the substance of the article does not change. The local society of Aylonas and the Municipality of Oropo, all the parties on the municipal council ask, Madam Minister, for the withdrawal of the article. What needs to be done is not to pass a programme contract such as the one provided for in the draft law, but to serve the museum in order to record what is contained in it and, of course, in cooperation with local bodies, to find a solution, if there are legal gaps, so as to proceed with the maintenance of the necessary building and its exhibits, but always ensuring the self-sufficientness of this museum, as well as the only museum that its exhibits are embroidery. If Article 46 remains, of course, we shall vote against it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take some time from dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u35	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u36	With regard to Article 48 now, which was suddenly tabled by a ministerial amendment, this is, in fact, an amendment, a major change in the archaeological law. This attempts to transform many museums into legal entities governed by public law, even to legal entities governed by private law, i.e. small organisations for the Management of the Cultural Property, such as the DAPH. We share here the concerns and disagreements of the Association of Greek Archaeologists on this issue and also note our opposition to the establishment of the continuous certification of the operating conditions of the museums, not only because it leads to self-evident categorisation, but also because it leads them mainly to the hug of the airless market. In the same article, which goes without saying that we are voting against, the unacceptable arrangement for the export of music collections of the Greek State is maintained for 'twenty-five plus twenty-five years'. Fifty plus fifty made it twenty-five plus twenty-five, half-century, i.e., as is already the case with the Benaki Museum, where to establish its annex to Melbourne there are its collections already there for a five-year period and another extension has been requested. We are, however, talking about collections belonging to the Greek State. In Article 58, none of the changes made by the New Democracy Government supports the creator and workers in the audiovisual field. The changes made to the law of SYRIZA - because SYRIZA brought this law, in 4487 - into the provisions for EKOME, as an entity to attract foreign investors to the cinema, which we all call on them, but they do not come with a multitude of concessions and privileges, do nothing but continue in the same direction by trying to make the framework of attraction of funds more attractive, even using the possibility - hear - accepted as eligible tariffs issued abroad as eligible tariffs, extending these criteria of the eligible costs, and increasing the deadline for submitting the application. Finally, the article on copyright and the Collective Management Organisations of the Creators themselves enables - listen - to be accepted as eligible tariffs issued abroad, extending these criteria of eligible expenditure, and increasing the deadline for submitting the application. For the copyright and collective management organisations of the authors themselves and the independent management entities that have nothing to do with the creators, not only do not eliminate the privileged treatment secured by the SYRIZA Law in ATO, the Independent Management Entities, against the Collective Management Organisations of the Organisations, so it does not eliminate this privileged treatment, but is growing. Of course, we are voting against it. I conclude with the amendment tabled by the Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr Autgeakis, yesterday. What is this amendment doing? It amends its own law that passed a while ago. The ink of this law has not yet dried up and is changed by Mr. Aygeakis. Why? To what end? To postpone, he says, the antiquities of all sports federations on January 22, 2021. Come on! Tell the truth. The amendment aims to postpone the elections to the European Union, the most historic federation of Greek sport that has scheduled elections on 16 January 2021. And as a pretext for this amendment, you are making use of the register in which the vast majority of the associations of the CIS have already been registered. It is clear that what the Undersecretary is seeking is to gain control of the elections and, by extension, control of the SGEI and all the federations. The only thing left for Mr Augias to do now is with a next amendment to be able to give himself the right to appoint the most pleasing members of the board of directors of federations. This is a coup d'état. This is a raw interference with the procedures of the federations and SINGA. We're denounced. We demand that it retires now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u37	Just, to know, you used five minutes of your dentistry. Madam Minister, would you like to take the floor as soon as the procedure is completed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u38	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u39	Now Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft legislation you are talking first of all about radical reorganisation and about the full modernisation of the structure, organisation and operation of the former LAG, the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund and now LAPD, which is the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, as is being renamed. Honestly, we are trying to understand exactly how you understand reorganisation and modernisation. With the meaningless and completely superficial change of name? Because, otherwise, we see a bill full of political covetousness that should have belonged to the past and to superpowers of the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport. As we pointed out during the committee meetings, the area of cultural resources management is very vulnerable. Instead of making moves to change substantially, instead of being run by a board of directors whose members will be appointed by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport. That's very original. And of course, the compensation of the President, the Vice-President and the members will be arranged jointly with the Minister of Finance and their amount remains unknown. You give responsibilities for the administrative board so many and so vaguely, we wonder whether they will not have been able to implement them by the end of their term of office, but at least to strengthen them. So comes modernisation for you, with direct assignments and photographic locations, but also without competitions, as in the case of refreshments, for which a one-off lease will be possible without a competition. Transparency in all its majesty! And you continue with the possibility of setting up a private entity with a special purpose to support the development objectives of the GSP. It is not enough for the legal person of the LAG to do so by such addresses and departments. You see, a private law has to be done. You are also putting posters and partners under a fixed-term private-law contract to assist the work of the president, whom he will propose and who will be recruited by a decision of the competent body of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. We still haven't learned who this mystery is in charge. We asked, but we didn't get an answer. You put as many as you can. You are talking about exceptional grants to the part of the resources from the Ministry of Culture and Sport in case revenue from the operation of the LAG is not sufficient to cover its essential operational needs. When you talk about making Greek taxpayers' money available, you must be specific. From addresses, managers, heads and departments, nothing else, as we have already said. Up to address for authorisation and maintenance of staff's registries and records. And where we wonder what else we are going to see, you are creating beyond the autonomous Monitoring and Development Department, whose responsibilities could well be performed by the Management of Financial Resources, which is also composed of two sub-sections. You are therefore recommending an additional to a separate GDR secretariat. To do what? To keep the protocol and manage the mail. Your ingenuity outweighs us. In the judicial office of the State Council, the President of the Board of Directors of the LAG will be able to assign the representation of the body to lawyers or lawyers who do not belong to it - those who want it, namely - and, of course, by means of summary procedures, while there are four organic positions of lawyers with an order leased, two Aryo Ice and two unknown further information. We asked about them too, but we did not respond. Recommendations shall continue with the possibility of recommendations up to five regional agencies at office level. And who will decide whether they will be introduced? But, of course, the Minister of Culture and Sports. As far as the qualifications of the supervisors are concerned, they should only come from the category of university education, but what we cannot understand is why the Head of the Directorate-General of the IASC can come from any body in the general government. The authorisations granted mainly to the Minister of Culture and Sport, but also to the Minister of Finance, through the authorized provisions, give and take. We have expressed and will continue to express our opposition to the possibility that regions can finance the construction, renovation, etc., of cultural infrastructures that have been characterised as newer monuments and belong, among other things, to non-profit-making associations. What about NGOs? With what reason? As for the long-term export of museum collection items, we've talked about it and we'll see you again. Not twenty-five, not fifty, not even a hundred years. In the museums of abroad there is so much stolen Greece. Now, is there any long-term borrowing? Literally uprooting. Those who wish to admire them are welcome. But here, in our homeland. Our cultural heritage, no doubt, shapes our daily lives. As for the uninterrupted and uninterrupted collection of the Historical Museum of Crete, safeguarding is a positive step. We question, however, for the purposes for which the provision is made for the Museum of Greek People's Musical Institutions "Phoivos Anogianakis". With regard to the attempt to combat archaocapilia, which is a serious crime against our history, the provision of personnel of the Port House at the Department of Documentation and the Protection of Cultural Goods of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, is legitimate, however, since there are no shortcomings in the Port House. The archaocaust in its various forms is a timeless phenomenon and the action of the archaics inevitably leads to the loss of knowledge, the loss of history itself. How many ancient treasures patiently await the archaeological digging, but instead end up in the hands of scientists in our country? Ancient Greece sells and unfortunately sells. And not only are we talking about individual cases, but also about organised coils. In particular, it is important to inform the citizens so that they themselves become active participants in the fight for the protection of our cultural heritage. The ethical significance of cultural works is confirmed by the fact that these are the culmination of the historical path of our people, they demonstrate our cultural peculiarities and act as a means of national self-awareness. However, to those who contribute to the recovery of monuments, why should contracts for the transport and insurance of recovered cultural goods also be confidential? Prolong the time to start applying the online ticket system and the fan card. The delay is obviously due to frugality. The love you show for NGOs also seems to be apparent from the provision of the possibility of concluding programmatic contracts and agreements with the Minister of Digital Governance, including with NGOs. We're across this. As for the extension of the validity of credit notes, due to cancellation or deferral of cultural events, and in particular where if the total value of the service that the customer will eventually monitor exceeds the value of the credit note, the difference will be paid by the client to the organiser, we want to believe that it is particularly burdensome for the citizens. The organizers are also being put by the pandemic, but also by the pocket of the Greek citizens, who cannot always be overlooked. But you cannot overlook the country's artistic body, which has been experiencing tragic times of unemployment for months. The culture of Greece is everywhere around us, rising unparalleled in the depth of the centuries. It is the result of the constant struggle of the Greeks and their action within the framework of an organised society. It is our comparative advantage. That is why strategic plans and plans are needed, integrated and costly, if we want to talk about serious use. The content of Greek culture includes both the cultural heritage - ancient, Byzantine, medieval - and modern spiritual creation and is characterized for its timelessness. Through its international radiation it was the main pillar on which European culture was founded. Even the citizens of the foreign countries show a huge interest in Greek history and deal thoroughly with its study, admire the principles, the mentality, the achievements of the ancient Greeks and stand ecstatic in front of the unique archaeological findings. The promotion of our country abroad, by saying, in substance, that it is the most ideal cultural destination, but also an important factor in intercultural approach and cooperation, is crucial. However, it is also crucial that new technologies should be exploited in order to monuments and museums, which are multi-dimensional and multi-dimensional spaces, to make them up-to-date, modern, innovative and attractive. Undoubtedly, the experience of the new technologies offered to the visitor makes the museum visit better and more effective, brings the Greek visitor to closer contact with his cultural heritage and at the same time, can attract more visitors from abroad. The linking of the Greek museum with tourism requires the support of the new technologies. Better and more efficient use of technology should aim not only to provide information but also to build genuine knowledge through the exhibition. Unfortunately, in our country the visits of Greek families to museums are minimal and are usually made by schools. This needs to be changed, for example by increasing the free days on which they can be visited. Because the fact of reduced visitability of families means that children are not so familiar with the cultural past. Moreover, a proposal from the Greek Solution is all Greek women and all Greeks can visit the museums of our country free of charge. You can do the right thing through the European Union to do this. The formation of our culture is based on concepts such as democracy, freedom, the measure. It is a very serious matter of facilitating accessibility, both in terms of accessibility and in terms of small and medium-sized enterprises. The possibility of investigating the availability of disabled people in Greece in order to implement the highest importance for a person in contact with cultural goods is very important. The knowledge that visitors can get from these sites will make a decisive contribution to their cultural integration, and that cannot be denied. In particular, people with a problem of vision should be included more actively than cultural sites in the design of their actions and thus not excluded from the enjoyment of the goods of cultural heritage and generally from their participation in social life. We cannot refer to local culture, which can be an important lever in the effort to promote and promote our country, which is an important attraction, as it is considered one of the most important cultural, social, spiritual and geographical centers of the earth. In addition to admiring it, we must protect it, not just with a wire and leave it to the mercy of the weather, the conditions and the epidemics. With careful storage, with frequent cleaning to prevent natural disasters, the installation of tanks in case of fires. Our treasures are not allowed to stay naked from guard and left to their fate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u41	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u42	The perfect care helps decisively to the proper functioning of archaeological sites and monuments, to the safety of exhibits, but also to the organized and safe management of visitors. Once again we want to stress the need to return our children who have left in the years of the memorandum, giving them serious incentives, which we have put you many times and not fragmentary semimeters. We, in the Greek Solution, firmly believe that the preservation of our cultural heritage is a matter of all Greeks. The protection of works of the past, which are a valuable national reserve, is imperative. These are those works that keep our memory and soul alive, the past, helping to strengthen our national conscience and identity. We must protect them, especially now that the Greeks are in danger of being minorities in their own country. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you for the time too. Now Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor from Mera25 for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it comes to our plenary today to discuss and vote the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport entitled: "Reorganise the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund and rename it to an Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, establish a legal person under private law called "The Museum - Olive Client Brana" in the Municipality of Lesvos, promote the cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the museum "Phovos Anonynnakis" and other provisions of the Ministry of Culture and Sports. Of course, you all know what the bill was, and I didn't read it either to waste time, to let you know. I have done so, because from the title alone, Madam Minister, one can understand that this is another bill, one of the many things that, unfortunately, the Government of New Democracy has used to us, and I must say to Mr Mitsotakis. A bill, therefore, has too many issues which - as always - are completely inconsistent with each other. It is so inconsistent that, on the one hand, there is nothing at all about a single legislative intervention. It is also characteristic - and it needs to be stressed - that the articles in the consultation were fifty-six. Seventy-four arrived in committee. They increased, in other words, by 1/3. There's another third of the bill that came and stuck from behind in the bill that came to the consultation. So, starting from Articles 1 to 45, which is the core, one would say, this draft law and concern the conversion of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund into an IDP, namely the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources. The attempt to update such an archaeological agency at first - as the archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund was originally set up in 1929 and in its present form since 1977, i.e. it has been under way to close a half-century - is being converted, in the opinion of Mera25, in my view, of all normal thoughtful people, completely wrongly and precisely in the wrong direction. The articles on the real estate of the new entity, the GDR, the structure of the board of directors of this new entity, the filling of associates' positions, the revenues and expenditures of the GPSD are, in our view, clearly problematic. Although this draft law maintains the LAG at least as a legal person governed by public law, - and this is interesting - "Maybe", from the draft law, "to establish a legal person of private law with exclusive purpose in managing its real estate. Article 4 (1). At least, therefore, the status of a new body as a legal person governed by public law, despite the acquired speed of your Government, but also the discussions that had already taken place in order to transform it into a legal person of private law. Luckily, you didn't. In other words, although we are talking about a legal person governed by public law - and it remains such a good thing that you have not changed it - the possibility is, however, given the possibility of setting up a different legal person, private law this time, which will be able to take decisions on the management of the property of the entity that remains a municipal person governed by public law. Are we kidding? That's the question. This, together with the possibility, on a case-by-case basis, of decisions of the Board of Directors of the new LAG to make use of its real estate, clearly circumvents all archaeological services, the relevant inventions of antiquities and the museums themselves. Furthermore, the impression is that participation in the seven-member board of directors, which will be set up in the new body, a trade union representative who will not be from the trade union body of workers, but from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, is an impression. I think the conclusions are easy. More importantly, therefore, with this provision, workers in today's SGP and tomorrow's SGP will not even be represented on the new board of directors of the new body, the new body, and there is not even any mention of a representative from the Antiquities Committee. One sees clearly, let me say, the Government's tendency to circumvent the experts and to set up bodies managed by - as I like to say by patronizing - its own people who are directly dependent on the political leadership of your ministry, with personal preferences, without meriting any prestige, always for the benefit of a allegedly vague excellence and an even more vague, supposedly excellence. If we now add the recruitments of two posted officials and two fixed-term employees to the task of assisting the work of the board of directors, instead of starting as a task - in any society that has been favoured - the state should be launched - to cover the two hundred and fifty blanks, from years to years, of organic positions through ADP, which is inconsistent. So we can only worry about this kind of lack of transparency and dignity, always for the sake of someone on the order of vague, I repeat, excellence. As far as the financial, revenue and expenditure of the new body are concerned, there are unfortunately also ambiguities and a great deal of sloppy. In our view, the revenues of the GDR, and in the opinion of all healthy thinking people, do not in any way come from the public authorities and cannot be linked to services offered free of charge by the State, such as educational programmes, conferences, programmes of study in cooperation with educational institutions. Article 14a refers to revenue from exhibitions, archaeological seminars, scientific conferences and all cultural events within archaeological sites, historical sites and museums organised by the LAG, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, or other third parties. It also refers to revenues from the certification of private manufacturers of simple copies of museum exhibits, the organisation of educational programs, conferences, laboratory visits, tours, and the establishment and operation of courses in collaboration with educational institutions. What's weird? The strange question, however, with the seminars, the scientific conferences, but in particular with the curriculums in cooperation with educational institutions, is that, as we all know, these procedures under normal conditions and conditions are public and, of course, completely free, within the framework of constitutionally established public and free education. Obviously, we as Mera25 are only talking about public educational establishments and not about any private ones who want to "evaluate" facilities, which are obviously charged respectively - and they will do well to charge for private ones. Here, in our view, the risk of one - let me say - market even within structures and conditions which by their very nature do not generate revenue. Besides - and this is the most worrying thing to think about - if the government knows something that all the other parties of the Greek Parliament in this House do not know about, which is about our public and free education in the near future. We remember that in the last revision of the Constitution you attempted, with Article 16, if I am not deceived, to privatize a large part of our university education. You didn't do it because you needed wider alliances. If it stays in your mind, we'd say forget it. It's not about us. We're too young to stop you. You will be strongly prevented by the Greek people. He won't let you privatize his education. As he will not let you privatize his health, you have attempted and launched it and continue to do so. That's why you don't hire eight thousand health doctors and doctors permanently to the ERC. Because then there will be a dowry in the ESS and it will be difficult to slander it, when the pandemic is over, so that you can deceive it and finally, as you did with "LARCO" or as you systematically do, privatize it. This little parentheses closes for your way. SGP expenditure, on the other hand - Article 16 B.C. - include, among other things, the co-organisation or financing of initiatives, programmes, reports and events of the GDR, the Archaeological Service and other bodies, with a view to protecting, highlighting - from the draft law - and promoting cultural heritage, as well as its connection to contemporary cultural creation. Your draft law was what I read. So what is the LRA called upon to do with this article? The LAG is invited to provide some funding for contemporary art in Greece. Apart from the obvious - not to say unprecedented - may I have the market word - which is reasonably created, created also a reasonable impression of rare clandestineness and an absolute lack of political planning, as the costs that should be allocated for the purposes that have been created, namely - for whom others? - for the maintenance of monuments, for example, will finally be made available for actions and actions of modern culture. It is the well-known 'no whacks', rather than the unfamiliar'. He can't even do his job for the LAPD and the LPD to date. We'll have it fund both modern and modern art. Ask me May to eat a clover. Nice modern art will have Greece where it will be financed by someone who cannot already finance what it was created for. I called it a mess but rather chaos is also a vague deception hidden behind some supposedly pure intentions. We in Mera25 clearly support and suggest strengthening modern culture and contemporary artistic creation. We have told them on several occasions. I'll call you back from here to remember them. The first, the cornerstone for all of this, is not to be killed by the artists who have started and starved. And, of course, not with poor, unscrupulous and contradictory policies and methods to implement these policies. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, to refer to Articles 46 and 56 relating to the legal person under private law with the name of the Museum of Olive Tree Monument in Branda in the Municipality of Lesvos. You have of course withdrawn the relevant articles as the donor company has of course demanded that this legislative initiative be withdrawn. You will not avoid listening again to what I have told you and to the committees. We will say this again because it is a matter of moral order and it is a matter of mentality. It shows your political attitude. It is truly regrettable for the multi-year and successful in all areas of private initiative that starts with the country's largest poets and ends up with the late Angelos Delivoria. In the intervening period, Nikos Koundouros, the best of the Greeks, intervened. Great intellectuals are invaded, great people who identify Greece with them. Such an initiative by individuals or their ancestors who intend to donate the result of this effort and the fruits of the public, is treated as treated by our state. And the previous government has left it gleaning since 2018 that agreed with them, but also with delays, ambiguities, lost documents, as an opportunity I imagine a perverted antidote from the safe to the unstoppable. I am of course referring to the proposal to set up the administrative board of the museum, its chairman, its alternate, two members and their alternates who will choose - as always in the central government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - the Minister of Culture himself or the Minister of Culture in this particular case. Unlike the decision and condition set by the donor company. It was completely different. So during a debate in your committee, we called on you to lift your demand to have full control over the Agency's Board of Directors who tried to give you a gift and to accept, as usual, at least in the first term of the board of directors of the new organisation the current president, Mr Sifunaki, who, in our opinion, would ensure a smooth transition to the new era of the body that would now be public. We suspect that you have no intention of doing so under any circumstances. We believe that behind your actions your purpose for absolute governmental control of the museum is hidden and your availability to present future party benefits by placing your party officials on the board of this organization and on the future get - give them that your executives will later have with the local communities of the surrounding areas. We are at least asking you to keep your word and make your commitment to grant this museum the full amount needed for employees' payroll and their uninterrupted operation throughout 2021. In order to be explained, however, because many announcements we have heard from the government and too many and the speech of the Prime Minister himself, who have never been made, we warn you as Merra25 of this at Step here now that we will be watching you closely. We will follow this issue closely and if this grant starts to sink towards forgetting, as has happened with other announcements, we will constantly reintroduce the issue until we are sure that the proper functioning of the Brandenburg Museum was ensured. Even in the planned contract between the Zygomalas Museum and the Museum of Modern Greek Culture, I refer to Article 57 of your draft law, by letter from the mayor of Oropopos Mr.Giatakis that the necessary consultation has not taken place with local institutions and local society. Why do we have such complaints, Minister? What's the rush? If you weren't in such a hurry, it would have been better. As if you had to fulfill things it saves and well before I didn't say what happened to this government. If the consultation lasted a little longer, you might have a chance that the local society would not react. Don't react to the mayor. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u45	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u46	Running, running, running. You've been running since the first moment you were elected. You've broken all the world records into bills that get back the conquests of the People's Movement of Century. A century at least. That is why I suspect you're fulfilling some of your commitments. Let us now go to Article 59 on the famous projection of cultural heritage abroad. Long-term export of objects, collections, museums and so on. Contrary to what is happening today with the lending and temporary export of works of art from museums abroad, which are of course five plus five years, from now on, you have formulated in your bill the outrageously - let me say - glamorous idea that all the treasures of our museums could be unearthed for an entire century. After the group fires that you have already accepted from each side of the Anti-Population, in front of the outcry, finally gather them and within one day you have come back suggesting half the time, that is, twenty-five plus twenty-five, over the entire half-century. Excuse me. Does anyone not understand in your party that this time again is huge? When he hears it, any citizen who voted for you is very concerned about the masterpieces, the old and the younger ones in his country. You're not going to find anyone who agrees with you. From five plus five to twenty-five plus twenty-five. It's fivefold. You're fivefolding the existing space that was reasonably there. Your original suggestion to remind people who are listening to us on television was tenfold. A century. It is very important at the same time that you do not confuse us with misleading and postponing elements and that there is flexibility, as we ask you to do in the case of the Benaki Museum. You could first if you had an elementary sense of responsibility to take on part of its fixed operating expenses, such as payroll and others, until at least if the impact of this crisis on the memoranda you have brought, your governments and the pandemic you have handled in such a way that it will become a nightmare for the entire Greek society. Before you come to introduce exceptional long-term rentals, borrowings for all the treasures of all our museums, you should think about it a little like that. So you could simply bring in a provision specifically concerning the long-term lending of part of Benaki Museum collections exclusively to the brother Benaki Museum. This will probably be called the Greek museum of Melbourne that is to be raised there. A loan that would be reserved for collections that the museum has declared does not expose anyway, but lasts for years, decades, closed down in its basement and warehouses as it does not have the extra space to expose them. That's what he was asking for and asking for the Benaki Museum. These would solve his problems, and these could be if you wanted to do so. It is clear, therefore, that you do not want to do so. Article 59 brings it much more general than saving the Benaki Museum as we have just proved to you other ways to save this. We fear, then, that since you do not want to see these other ways, there will certainly be other things in your mind. One wonders whether this is another tactical trick of the present government regarding the Parthenon marbles, the so-called Ellen marbles, which could be considered borrowed for half a century in the British Museum. So where? The very octopus he took from the thief these marbles. For another half century. At the same time, however, the papers are considered to be very good for Greece. We fear that the communication management, which in many cases has substituted the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, would have no doubts about presenting such an unfavorable national development as a major victory. Attention is not mentioned here at random but as a follow-up to discussions that we are unfortunately learning have already begun. Lucky on a theoretical level yet. So we repeat that, for all the important and concise ancient and new works of art of our culture, the current period of export and lending must definitely be maintained. In view of the serious problems with the conversion of the SSP into SGP, as well as the absolute fiasco in relation to the Brandenburg Museum, but also because of the extremely dangerous Article 59 in the form of half-century, of course in principle, Mr President, we will vote 'no'. I'll be done in a minute by using my dentistry as well, which I've already started. I would like to remind you, Minister, something I will do every time. I do not do it for political use because I am very concerned about the people who have begun to starve. It has been a year almost two months since all of my style - from cleaners to musicians, singers, speakers, technicians, dancers, filmmakers, dressmakers, painters - has in no way been helped by your Greek government and your Ministry. It has this particular feature that the working class of people has been closed for eleven months now. We didn't open this summer again. You suggested that we'll open again, I told you the other day, but only the Prime Minister, who came down from Antiparos to Sinook to see the "Press". That was your opening. Then the fifty events that you announced throughout Greece, "a Greece, a culture" were cancelled by local regional or mayors. The peculiarity is that all these people - who have been telling you that they are at least fifty thousand - live as they can, eating their flesh for 11 months. What they're asking you to do, and they asked you to do the show the day before yesterday, outside your ministry, is not that terrible. You're being asked for specific things. We are asking you - the whole political system, apart from you - to be included in the special purpose compensation and those who did not have time to enter the register of artists who were on 20 October 2020, but who fulfil the other formal requirements. I would remind you that according to the Ministry's statement you expected forty-two to forty-five thousand and signed seventeen in advance. So you know that twenty-six thousand of them didn't go. We claim to be eighty plus thousands that didn't go. We have evidence from the Association of Greek Actors and from NATIONA which shows us that these people have now reached their level of charity, that is, from their unions where they go to eat a dish of food. So what they ask is reasonable and you have to do it. The second one you are asked to receive is in relation to the specific purpose allowance of EUR 800 in category L1 for no final date to be entered in the register. It should be recalled that, contrary to the September-October allowance and despite the government's announcements, the end date for entry into the register for this allowance is 15th rather than 20th and created confusion and confusion. Thirdly, automatic extension and immediate disbursement of the allowance for the months November and December, at least for the continuation, the rest of the period in which cultural sites will remain closed. Fourthly, those who are compensated through a register should be automatically beneficiaries and a reduction in rent, as is the case with job suspensions. Fifth, suspension of payment of dues, taxis, banks CECE, all types of connections, telephone, energy, municipal charges, as well as a power and evaporation ban. Finally - something they have added now - that the amendment to this draft law which we are debating today, 'Showing the Cultural Heritage', Article 69, which concerns the EMEA, should be withdrawn immediately. All of this - and I am leaving, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - because we are sitting here talking about various bills from your Ministry, which we very much fear will have no object in the near future, and the artists will well die of hunger. I do not say this in any popular language or vote. After eleven months artists have eaten the help of their parents, their children, elders, have eaten their furniture, have eaten their clothes. So when they eat everything and their flesh and die, your ministry, unfortunately, your dear Minister, will no longer have an object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Mr. Gregoriadis, I just want to inform you that you have covered both your protology and your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u48	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. The honourable Member has asked for another amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, it is one amendment even, I would like to make a few comments on what we have heard so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u51	I mean, an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u52	Yes, Mr. President. Firstly, the amendment concerns the amendment of Article 66E of Law 2121/1993. Ladies and gentlemen, the current framework for the protection of intellectual property rights or related rights on the Internet, as established in Article 66E of Law 2121/1993, with the setting up and functioning of the Committee on the Disclosure of Websites of Copyright and Related Rights, has so far operated satisfactorily, protecting the rights of rightholders on the Internet. Furthermore, with Article 25 of recent Law No.4708/2020, the Ministry of Culture and Sport has adopted a very important tool to deal with piracy, the so-called and long-awaited until the past June internamic blocking. Although taking this legislative measure was an important step in the fight against online piracy in the country, there are cases where, due to the nature and scale of the imminent infringement, immediate measures are needed and the deadlines provided for in the law in order for the committee to take such a decision do not guarantee beneficiaries. For example, in many cases, such as in particular in live audiovisual broadcasting of cultural or sport events which are transmitted live through specific uniform locators, which have no licence, there is the need to protect directly the beneficiaries and, in fact, at a preventive level. To this end, the possibility for the Committee on the Internet Infringement of Intellectual Property and Religious Rights to be able to take, at the request of the proprietor in a specific procedure, preventive protection measures recommending the interruption of access to this website, a name of the site, for a period comparable to that and the duration thereof, under strict conditions, and in particular if it is likely: firstly, that the Internet is an infringement of protected intellectual property rights or related rights in relation to national or international viewing issues that are to be broadcast at the same time as they are to be carried out. Secondly, the insult for the country to take place by means of specific uniform locators of resources or internet protocol addresses or domain names that offer no licensed subscription in any way and in particular through the use of codes or decoder. And thirdly, there is an urgent case of preventing a direct and imminent risk or irreparable harm to the public interest or the beneficiary. Where the Committee accepts the request, it shall adopt a decision calling on Internet access providers to discontinue access to content within a period of not less than six hours and not more than 12 hours from the sending of the decision. The decision of the Committee shall be given no later than twenty-four hours before the transmission of the event and shall be sent within the same time limit by e-mail to the beneficiary and to the access provider. Of course, we provide that operators and owners of the websites may appeal against the above decision of the committee before the competent courts and if they are entitled to claim compensation from the beneficiary who initiated the procedure for the decision of the committee. For the purpose of easier and more effective implementation of the Committee’s work, we provide for the setting up of a specific supplier register with the information provided by providers. For Article 2, "Supervisory System of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts", which concerns the Ministry of Digital Governance, the Deputy Minister was here, something happened and he had to leave and would come back in order to support it. However, I am telling you that we are completing the protection grid with the establishment of a system of alert and preparedness for the competent organic units of the National Telecommunications and Posts Commission for the immediate support of cases in need of immediate and urgent intervention by the public prosecutors, judicial decisions or decisions of the committee. It will soon be the Minister responsible here who, for Article 2, will be able to say more. Mr President, if you will allow me to comment on one of the things that we have heard. Let's start with a duplicate show. Mrs Christidou tabled the ICOMOS resolution on the ancients at Venizelos Station. Regardless of the fact that he comes today in a bill completely irrelevant. Nevertheless, what is wonderable is why an issue, which is already in the Council of State and we are waiting for this crisis, is so busy and comes back from the Civic Opposition. Of course, it is a serious issue and it is offered for opposition impressions. All operators' positions and ICOMOS are obviously respected. But we need to clarify what the matter is. It is not the removal of antiquities from the natural area in which they were found, but their temporary secondment only during the works of the Venizelos Station and their immediate reposition to the same position, at the same level without substance having lost a percentage of matter, as 92% of material is repositioned, exactly the same material, the same quantity of material that would be left to us even if we could accept that the project could develop with ancient ones. We insist - and that is what the decisions of the Ministry of Culture say - that there is no technical way of building the station without endangering the antiquities. There's a different point of view. That is why it is in the Council of State. This element, which concerns the fact that it is a temporary secondment, following a special study, and immediately after relocating, is diligently concealed from the Kroner of Antipolitics. Impression does not give rise to the fact that this very fact does not show that it is in knowledge nor even in international ICOMOS. If one reads the resolution tabled a moment ago by the SYRIZA rapporteur, what one says is that the secondment of monuments is a harm to their authenticity. Nothing more. It is systematically concealed by the Opposition. It doesn't matter, it's a matter we can talk about hours. On all the other issues raised, three weeks ago, I answered a timely question which dealt with us here about four and a half hours and five hours. And I think I have given all the figures, which show what the New Democracy Government has done since the first moment of the pandemic for people and workers in the cultural sector. I am not at all questioning the fact that we are experiencing unprecedented situations. However, we cannot in any case - and we can prove this - accept that, despite all the damage - which is very great - there are workers in the cultural sector, this government did not work directly and effectively. The fact that all those who considered the register to be a 'feasco' - and it is not my terminology - are statements of the Anti-Population - and that people should not be registered and prevented from being registered by the register, the same people today come and say 'Let them be allowed to register, even in the short term', that is to say, after 20 October. Why? Because they saw that both through the register, apart from all the other development and horizontal measures of the government, and through the register many of their colleagues, about seventeen thousand, have already received the special-purpose allowance. So those who discouraged cultural professionals from registering for compensation today come and ask that no deadlines be met. However, this is also a subject which we are discussing with the relevant ministries, finance and labour. We will now go to the issues that have been raised and I shall start with the amendment on the process of certifying the museum. Ladies and gentlemen, the archaeological law is a very, very serious law, which, by the way, I would remind you, when it was voted on in 2002, the party that was the equivalent of the Officerial Response had actually rejected for several points, we and the five-year lending over two, that is, a decade, which we are currently dealing with as a given and a deadline which should not change. If you look at the Minutes of the House of Parliament in 2002, you will see what you were saying about commercialisation through lending. I'm over that, because that's what the future historian will see anyway. So let's go to certification, because that's what we're importing, and in no case do we introduce the question of the conversion of legal services by the Ministry, the museums of the Ministry, to legal entities governed by public law. This law will come in the first quarter of 2021. It's another story. With today's amendment we are introducing the certification procedure. I should also like to inform the SYRIZA rapporteur, who asked us how we were doing this amendment, that this amendment comes from the services responsible, from the relevant officials, who have undertaken the certification procedure. We have announced this procedure about a year ago, very specifically, saying that it will also be about public museums, and the same procedure is included in the government's programme statements. I understand that for some places the word 'improvement', 'upgrade', 'certification', 'rule', 'criteria', 'perfection', is causing a form of allergy. What to do, there are others who believe in these procedures. Certification is therefore an internationally valid process worldwide. I told you in my initial position that it was done in many European countries, in France, Italy, Great Britain, in America, in Australia. The time has come to predict the response of our museums and monuments to the demands of their projection. This government has said that it will ensure total quality in public administration. That's a procedure like that. Mrs Christidou spoke about closing museums. No one else, of course, only Mrs Christidou. But who told you they're going to close museums? Here we say we're going to improve, and you realize we're going to close museums? Obviously it's a confusion similar to the eshop and the e-shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u53	Madam Minister, you will also have your central speech later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u54	But wait a minute, Mr President, everyone has spoken infinitely, I in my speech will be absolutely in time. Long-term export. Obviously, we do not legislate about the Benaki Museum by name, but generally on the basis of the case of cooperation of the Benaki Museum with the Hellenic Museum of Melbourne. It is a cooperation that we really hope will be the beginning of such cooperation, because we really believe there is a huge margin in our museums to promote Greek culture abroad. You obviously prefer the objects, the antiquities to stay in the warehouses, obscured and unknown, than to act as ambassadors to Greece abroad. You said it was a shame to catch a fool in particular, giving him undeserved monuments. What monuments do you mean it's worthless? Did anyone tell you that you have the right to categorize monuments in this way, someone worth it, and someone doesn't? Who gives you that right? Since when do you evaluate the monuments, based on what knowledge and what criteria? You try to show carelessness and lack of seriousness from the fact that the original fifty years were twenty - five. The Benaki Museum, which was at the very first moment in full cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, in absolute cooperation - the provisions were drawn up and all discussions on legislation were made - initially wanted the fifty-year limit, because that was the one that ensured 100% of the investment in Australia. We, as we have a duty - which is why the debate is taking place in this House - have heard your objections. We talked to the Benaki Museum, we were renegotiated - yes, and within the night, it is the difference of time that helps - the Benaki Museum was renegotiated and accepts twenty-five plus twenty-five. Things are so simple. Do not always try to find ghosts behind procedures. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I will stop with this, Mr President, and I will come back later. For the Solidarity Fund and the extension of the liquidation, you are obviously not disturbed by the extension in itself, which is done for a very simple reason, because the liquidator has not been able to complete the liquidation in one year, which is perfectly reasonable in these procedures and indeed in the middle of a pandemic. What is bothering you is the introduction, regulation of the liquidation itself. In addition to what was developed in the debate on Law 4639/2019, which provided for the liquidation, it is perhaps worth reminding you that recourse to the clearance procedure for the Solidarity Fund had also been discussed by your own party, the chief rapporteur for the Police, and it is strange that you do not remember it. I'm telling you what your former State Secretary, Mr. Army, stated in the House on 26-2-2019. "We will not hesitate to lead the fund to a solution and liquidation by ensuring the smooth development of the work of justice." You, with the liquidation, would have ensured the work of justice. We do something different. Finally, with regard to workers - to end this issue too - Article 7 of Law 4598/2019 provides that private law staff are transferred to the Ministry of Culture and Sport in relationships similar to those they had in the fund. A prerequisite for this inclusion was for the AACC to judge that this staff met the requirements of Articles 4 to 9 of the Staff Code, as well as the formal qualifications of the level and specificity of the corresponding posts, in accordance with Presidential Decree 50/2001. Following a complaint concerning the legality of Article 7 of Law No 4598/2019, I addressed to the Legal Council of the State whether it was a question of legality in relation to the above transfer that it was not a matter of officials who were recruited in accordance with public procedures and simply transferring to another body but of officials who were recruited to the Fund on the basis of procedures completely out-of-public procedures. The question was brought to the Plenary Assembly of the Legal Council of the State, which considered that Article 7 did in fact provide for the permanentisation of officials, even though this is prohibited by the Constitution with the 2001 Review. The opinion No 262/2019 of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State was accepted and is therefore binding on the administration. Therefore, the question that the AACC considered, namely that the staff meets the standard qualifications, is unreliable since there is no question of transferring personnel to posts whose recommendation is not allowed by the Constitution. I would like to point out that the AACC has not dealt with the issue of constitutionality or not. Next I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u55	Yes, Minister - good afternoon to all and to you, Minister - but leave nothing for your central speech. You spoke sixteen, seventeen minutes, 'you raised and dust'. I see the Members are raising their hands here. I will give the floor first to Mr Buga from New Democracy for a minute, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u56	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would like to make a proposal for a legislative improvement to the Minister in order to examine it by the end of today's sitting. It is a view, which I have insisted on since 2002, since L.3028/2002 was published. This is the term 'borrowing' and I do not do so by insistence on legal accuracy as the abusive term 'lending' and 'temporary export of objects' is inconsistent with the content of the article and does not give the meaning. On the contrary, it distorts the meaning of the provision and I shall immediately explain, Mr President, what I am talking about. Loans, according to legal accuracy, are the ownership by one party to the other transfer of replacements, which the counterparty is obliged to give at the agreed time, to return them to its counterparty. Historical monuments cannot be replacements, which are transferred by ownership and enable the counterparty's obligation at the agreed time to return other, similar things. So, Minister, I would like you to see this, so that it can be rendered not only with legal accuracy, but also with the fullness of the term, because this article also contains high symbolism. The Greek public doesn't borrow things, it serves things. That's the exact term. So I think that we need to make a legislative improvement by the end of the sitting, so that the term gives full effect to the content that this provision wants to give and says exactly what it means. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u59	The Chief of Greek Solution has already asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u60	What can we do? The Chiefs lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u61	The Chiefs are ahead of us - what do we do now? - on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vellopoulou, I apologize, but Mr. Bougas had asked for the floor before, which is why he preceded it. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would like to begin by referring to something that is glamorous. How many bills have come since the '74s concerning your ministry, you know? Noms concerning the Ministry of Culture. Two hundred eighty. This means that every bill leaves imperfections, imperfections resulting from a lack of duty by the ministers and I would say that sometimes your attention is focused on detail, but your essence is escaped. We're talking about archaeological sites. We are talking about history and culture in the country that gave birth to culture and history, in the country where archaeological sites, my Minister, with wires even now are fenced, the stakes fall, everyone enters and exits wherever they want. But we're going to something more substantial, Minister. Let's go to Athens together, walk together. You will see all the neoclassical buildings - because this is history, it is archaeology, colleagues of the New Democracy - being abandoned and devastated, at risk of collapse all of them. There has never been care and care for the state to make a design, as was done in Italy, Rome, as happened in Berlin, as was done in Paris, these buildings that are cultures to be preserved and made really stylish. That is why, Mrs Mendoni, I was expecting New Democracy to bring me a bill in which the state will say that it takes care of the maintenance, restoration and maintenance of these buildings. You will go to Plaka - if you go, Minister - walking where the stones are in danger of falling. We had three years ago lethal injury to people by falling from a neoclassical building. The center of Athens, at Psirri, but also in other areas, is full of such buildings. And you bring a bill, Minister, where you say you can borrow for thirty, fifty, sixty, seventy years - I don't know how much of what you want - archaeological findings. It's a disgrace to me - believe me - to see on the Internet now, Minister - of course, you're doing another job now, you don't listen to me, it's okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u63	I can hear you very well, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u64	I would like to ask you, to answer me after your speech, if there is a special department in the Ministry of Culture through the Internet, to search for the ancient objects that are sold illegally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u65	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u66	There is. So tell me for the last five years how many finds have turned behind a Greek claim. I want to hear it. Because now I'm on a site and I saw that next week they're sold illegally by big houses, Greek finds. Next week! And I'm saying this because the plans are good, it's good to borrow, but let's see how we get back what belongs to us. And I say it because as a man who has been in the Ministry of Culture for decades, Ms. Mendonis, I have many objections to the operation of the CAS, but also many of the archaeologists who operate throughout Greece who are not Greek: foreign archaeological schools. I'm not going to make a historical regression, but I'm going to tell you what the late Andronikos, Mrs. Mendoni, told me. You know Andronico. So he told me in a stimulus we had - little me at the time - that few archaeologists are poor. Andronikos said to me: "Some archaeologists are poor." The reason why few archaeologists are poor is perhaps because the state's diligence towards these services is not the right one, the right one. And I say it and I stop here. It is a saying, which I remember even now, and for me it is a very problematic phrase. I don't understand, 50 years you've given it to me - it says - the archaeological findings of the country. "Christmas we're gonna do," you said? Is that what you said? A loan, Mr. Bouga?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u67	If we want to give...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u68	One-one. How old are you, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u69	I'm fifty-six years old.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u70	I'm fifty-five-emotional. In fifty years, we're not both going to live! What right do you give to the ancients in fifty years? I say, with what right? It's generations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u71	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u72	Wait a minute. Five, I get it. Okay. But fifty? We won't live. I'm telling you things, which are a little weird. I don't know what the Benaki Foundation is doing and all of them. I don't care, believe me. Because if all the things were done in the previous ones, we'd talk about it. I was expecting the government, because you are technocrats all of you of the New Democracy, with your perfect states, to bring us a bill on the neoclassicals of Athens, about the neoclassicals of Thessaloniki, to support them, to fix them, to give us another aesthetic in our city. So how do you bring us a bill which - I will say - is like the other bills, clipboard, honestly clipboard. And tell you why. I was expecting Mrs Mendoni to bring me here how we really will digitize and make the virtual representation, that Swiss, French, American, in the archaeological site - I know - in Berna, in Aeges - not to say Berna - in Pella, in Olympia, in all the archaeological sites, in all the ancient cities that are thousands and many are also under the ground. I was expecting you to do that. Do that! Is that so hard? You come over here with a bill harp glue to tell me we're going to do a loan. All right, you're good. Do you have any help, but the essence is what? How will we attract and communicate the greatness of Greek culture, which is the photographer of the culture - do not mock - after the Greek-Roman culture and later Renaissance, the Middle Ages? We gave everything. I mean, the online tour, the virtual tour is nowhere. Of course, I hear that here you're building agencies with more parts than before. I mean, you'll still make people yours. So are you bringing bills that are from the outset, really, why have I proved to you that 200 fifty-eight - if I'm not mistaken - are the bills from 1974 onwards for the Ministry of Culture and what have we solved? Nothing! No lame excavations solved or archaic rows, nothing, nothing, really nothing! Why? Because we're just legislating for today, until tomorrow morning. Let all parties sit together and make suggestions how this digital tour is to be done, all together to put computers in place, to do that as well. Let's make a study plan. Ms. Mendoni made the chasm with the Acropolis, with the cement. It was an uncomfortable blow to me. In the Acropolis, you don't put cement, you do the very simple thing, you go to Rome, as I've been there many times and you see in the archaeological site what they've put underneath. Cement never put on special structures. We delivered a study - and if anyone can present it to me, to testify to it in the Minutes - and with EUR 92 000 this work has been done. They're talking about 1 million cement costs in the Acropolis, and of course, the excuse is that in 1960 they put cement. In 1960, Mrs. Mendoni, by car we ran ten kilometers an hour, now we run at two hundred and four hundred kilometers an hour. Another period, other that period. So I'm telling you the mistakes that are made and we're getting past them. Good and the elevator we've been yelling for people with disabilities for years here, from the first moment we entered for the Acropolis, but they're mistakes. Of course, we're going to the other issues, because the Ministry of Culture can say a lot, too much, right? It should be the '4' Ministry for me in the government. The Ministry of Culture of the country had to be the fourth Ministry. Greece has nothing more to show, it has a Minister of Culture, which should be the number "4" in the government, in whichever government. We have our culture to show. This is the product we can propose to contact our country abroad. And yet, we have it in a lesser fate. These are the mistakes and mistakes seriously, because you have the Ministry of Culture the last in line. I remember in the past whoever was Minister of Culture and Sport was then the last, it was the misery of the top executives. We have the Minister of Development! Development with an NSRF, namely by buses we give from the NSRF. I was listening to your Minister for glad we were first in absorption. But since we're also giving money from the NSRF for benefits! We absorbed money for allowances, absorbed money for buses we're buying. That's not growth! I'm just telling you things, you're making mistakes in the semantic report of your choices, in how you show the world that you're doing and doing your government work. I have a document from the Commission before me. Sadly, you once again prove to be dangerous to the country. I will not say 'inadequate'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that document say? I don't know how many of you are from Thessaly, but the Commission rats you out. It says that a question has been raised by the Greek MEP, Mr Franco. Did he get an answer to what issue? For the ‘January’. Do you remember him? Do you remember the throat that hit Greece? Greece has not made a request - nor a request - for assistance and financial compensation in Europe, while it has the right, there are funds. There it is, the Commission says so. This means that your ministers only do to go to the channels and to be in favor of the vaccine, 'krono-popular'. The Commission tells you that you have done nothing to compensate our country to get money in its reserve. You're ratted by the Commission! Look at it, here's the answer, in the Minutes, whoever wants to get it. In other words, you are not just inadequate, but when the Greeks went through such a drama, he had left the house, his business has been flooded, he has no survived, and there is money to take, to absorb, to help them, you still did not compensate them, you will compensate them, while there is money. Here was the answer, whoever wants it. Now let's go to the rest. We're going to the big theme of the days, which for me is very important. I'm sick of hearing the experts. Do you know the experts? - on coronary channels. However, information is one-sided. Ms. Linou, Mr. Syssis, is the tenth and fifteenth acquaintances. The strange thing about all the people you're making on the channels and you're promoting them is that all of them have taken too much money - and there are numbers in DIAGY - 700,000 euros each, 500,000 euros the other, one million euros the other, money, money of the Greek people from supposedly research projects. I have Mrs. Linou before me. So, Mrs Linou - for those who do not know from you - she is a executive - if not the founder - of 'Prevention'. Do you know what "Prevention" is? Non-governmental organization for illegal immigrants. Here it is, I'll submit it to the Minutes. Symptoms of all these, then, indirectly or directly, are sucking off the state budget and European money and making them on the channels to convince us how important the problem of the coronary is and to close us in the homes. That's all it's done is measurable. What is Mrs Linou doing with a non-governmental organisation, which is about - here is the document - will be tabled in the Minutes - illegal immigrants? I didn't get it. What's Mr. Magorini doing? What's his name? - doing an AIDS investigation, talking about the coronary? What is Mr. Synpsis and Mr. Chiodras doing, who have taken too much money, constantly come out of themselves and themselves and produce exactly the same terror, that is, horror, in the channels, in the 'Skai' - your channel - and in all the channels that you control? Now, what I have not understood is how the Greek citizen is forbidden to go from district to district or from county to county, but is Hassan allowed from Afghanistan to come to Chalkida? And how's he coming? This is the other one we arrested here in Keracini found on Evros! In other words, you forbid the Greeks to move, you forbid him from daily making it self-evident, to go to his father's village, to his mother, to go to his countryside in East Attica or Halkidiki, who has a dog, a chicken, to feed and allow each one of them - now we go to Omonia together, yesterday, "STAR" showed reports - and their shops to be open, ladies and gentlemen, and they themselves to walk without masks and to walk in the streets without any precautions. How do you allow it? Also, because some people said that I am against the vaccination, that I am sprayed, that the Greek Solution is sprayed and the others: Good, since we are sprayed, answer me why Macroon, the strongest Chief after Merkel - or Merkel's equivalent - has the same qualms as the Greek Solution? Who is sprayed is proven by just one thing, that they are the same people who are asking for Macron's help to help against Turkey, but when McCron talks about the coronary and he is sceptical and says that there are side effects and "I don't oblige anyone" to go out and say the country's Prime Minister sprayed on those who disagree. Listen, if I'm telling the truth, I'd rather be sprayed, blushed I don't want to be, blushed with every Hassan our Prime Minister wanted. I also asked the Prime Minister to tell me something very simple: Criminal and civil responsibilities are the companies producing vaccines, yes or no? Do they have any relevant confidential protocols with the companies, yes or no? Has the European Union done this, yes or no? No one's answering me. So, I'm gonna make a vaccine tomorrow morning, bourgeois or criminal responsibility, if it has any side effects on the vaccine? No one's answering me. And the Prime Minister expects me to go with him to get vaccinated, to encourage another world, while being alert to any side effects, and to take the cost of choosing, to urge people to death. I'll never do it! My own father, I'll never make a lab animal! My body can do whatever I want, but my father's body, my uncle, my acquaintance, the Greek citizen, will not make a test animal. Also, why doesn't any of the experts you're pulling out on the channels - the channels that you're financing and you've got your own money anyway - say that there's a medicine? There's a medicine, ladies and gentlemen. Since this morning, other journalists have finally started talking to the REAL FM. In the morning, I was listening to Houdalakis say it. I've been saying it for a month, there's been a drug, and I'll tell you who the scientists are in a while, because I need some more time. And because you believe that everything will be solved by PFIZER, to inform both your Minister and your ministers that PFIZER had taken off two, three medicaments, the Feldene for arthritis that led to dozens of deaths, withdrew. The papers then wrote "registration of death" - about "PFIZER" - "additional heart valves led dozens of people to death. The company has deceived the FDA by giving incomplete information, as does the company, PFIZER itself. Let's go down. ‘PFIZER’: Rezulin, diabetes medicine, has proved to be dangerous. Bextra and Celebrex painkillers were withdrawn as dangerous. PFIZER, the great company of Burla the veterinarian. Burla is neither a geneticist nor an infectious infectious person. Veterinaryist is the man! We made him huge, the great scientist, like he is, I know, Ioannides! The company paid $894 million fine! Anti-PFIZER treatments for children's vaccines, hormone therapy, Efexor preparations, Norplant. Why don't your experts tell us? These are said to me by special doctors we have in our Greek Solution, university professors and objectors. I repeat, we have no objections without arguments. We're not against the vaccines. I had vaccines too when I was a kid. We all had vaccines. But should I, and urge others to do a vaccine that has not been tested? Oh, no! Listen! Do you remember the swine influenza vaccine? Four thousand people are in paralysis. Do you remember that? Done in 1976, 1978, somewhere then. Do you remember that? Doctors scientists say it's very good and we all do it again. That's what happened to us! I'll tell you more. I will tell you what the PFIZER vaccine brochure says. I got the brochure. Our doctors, because they are real doctors and are not - I will say it directly - neither butchers nor albanes, have taken the PFIZER brochure for the vaccine. This booklet therefore says about interactions - these are honest -: 'No interaction studies have been carried out.' Put on a batch, Mr. President! They say there have been no studies of interactions. ‘For fertility, pregnancy and lactation there are no studies or a limited number of data’. The company says it! How does the Prime Minister get out and say that the vaccine is safe? Let's go below: "No animal reproductive toxicity studies have been completed. It is not recommended during pregnancy.’ It's all in the paper! The paper in it says these things! Pregnancy should be excluded before vaccination. Breast-feeding: It is not known whether it is excreted in human milk. The risk to pups, infants cannot be excluded.’ ‘Naturality: It is not known whether it has an impact on fertility. There is no evidence of carcinogenicity and whether it is mutagenic." I'm telling you what their own paper says in the vaccine! Tell me, which serious and reasonable person would say it's safe? What Prime Minister, who wants to be serious about the Greek people, would say that it is safe? Also, why didn't any of the media play the McCrone Declaration? No Greek channel - I will not say Turkish-Canalo, as Paulakis said here - 'birth-Canal', I will not say it - no channels that you have controlled did not play the Macronne's statement, which was clear and said what I have been saying for two months. I said I'm sceptical, I'm not sure, I can't do that. That's exactly what McCron said. What the Greek Solution has been saying for months, says the President of France and not an accidental person! It is not said by MP Velopoulos or MP Capitanopoulos from Upper Katomeri! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, the WHO comes out, the World Health Organization says that vaccines do not mean zero COVID -19. What can I say? And here I have all the reactions of top scientists - I will present them in the Minutes - and like Yadon, the former head of the PFIZER Respiratory Research Sector, Woodarg, the former leader, President of Public Health, who are now directly saying that this vaccine is at great risk. For those who know, here are the studies in English. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. We come here with evidence. We do not come to mock anyone, lie to the Greek people, or say that it is not safe or that it is safe. I'm telling you, I'm being vigilant. And as long as I am vigilant, as long as I am not sure, I will not lead any Greeks to do something compulsory. And I come to his comment "British Medical Journal", which is the official body, as you know, the medical magazine etc. In the case of the vaccine, there is a need for more transparency as regards the testing of vaccines. Statement by the President of the Greek doctors of Great Britain, Ms. Sonidos, on the vaccine. He said it on a channel and everyone stayed speechless: "In this phase I would not like to do it. I do not have enough information for myself and my patients." They say it themselves! But they don't come out on the channels. On the canals the "terrorists" of the coronary come out, those connected with a special channel of money to the state sector, known and sucking state money! Let's go to Mr. Suharit Buckdi, a German microbiologist, who claimed the vaccine was dangerous. He's written a book about it. The British government's advisor, Jeremy Farar, said: "The first vaccines will probably not be effective". We'll do experimental animals! The Director General of the World Health Organisation, Adhanom Ghebreyesus, declared in August that the vaccine is not panacea. I'm telling you a series of experts, aren't I? As for Burla, he said he's not sure that we see it, we'll see it along the way. We are going to Dimitris Kouvela, who said: “Why are you hiding that there is a medicine?” He's a professor, director of the Clinic Pharmacology Laboratory of the Aristotle University. Also, Farsalinus, researcher at the University of Patras and West Attica said: "He said there is a medicine", Mr. President. They're teachers, they're not random. It's not the infectious. Also, Professor of Clinical Pharmacology. Trump's or Jerome's medicine, we were talking about, I don't know if this news is true, it's here. It's worth 10 grand! If we had it, the cost of three thousand patients right now would be EUR 10-15 million and we would solve the problem. Teachers say so! Lockdown costs 5 billion euros a month, ladies and gentlemen! Instead of the 10-15 million for the drug, we do the lockdown that costs 5 billion! Why doesn't the government invite them to speak? Tell me about it! See the medicine that exists in large quantities in the United States! And we can get it out of there, because we've made a contract, a protocol of cooperation. Come on, Russian can't take it, there's no deal. But with the Americans, we have a deal. Why don't you take that? Why does it save and we need to get vaccines? Why do we have to be vaccinated with a vaccine that nobody knows? Tell me about it. If there's a medicine. Teachers say so! And all this comes to confirm the Greek Solution with yesterday's publication "Capital.gr". The 'Capital.gr', Mr President, is a New Democracy site, a neoliberal, extreme liberal and has an entire article, Mr Villardo. He has a full questioning article: "The ten years of testing required for vaccine in a few months!" It's like me saying it! It says your site says it! "In Asia, even the experts are reluctant to offer support to the vaccine." That's what "Capital.gr" says! "Since seven in a hundred Japanese said they would be vaccinated immediately." South Korea that defeated the virus said it was not rushing to obtain the vaccine. 'Capital.gr'! It's your site, the neoliberal! Long live the sale! 'The United States and the European Union are preparing a communication propaganda for vaccines'. 'Capital.gr'! And he says they're still questioning it. Your site! They're starting to talk now! They open mouths and I don't know where you're gonna hide! The worst of all - I'm going to file a document in the Minutes, Mr. Voutsi - is that they're asking for a hospital from officials, doctors and nurses - now listen to this! - a signed declaration of acceptance or refusal of the vaccine. They're asking for it right now! I got her here. And by the patients! I'll testify to the Minutes! What's this? What are you doing? You're scrambling the world? So if I refuse and want to go to the hospital, I'll sign if I refuse or not to file with me? What are you doing? What's going on here? I don't understand, I really don't understand! You closed the churches. All of Europe has the churches open! All Europe, Germany, France, Italy, has the churches open! Why did you turn them off? Tell me why! Underneath Omonia, there's a party! Why did you close the churches? I will not say that mosques are open, all churches open. The priest, the metropolitan, should take care of distances. But why did you turn them off? Tell me about it. From Easter we haven't seen any real function! Easter! Do you understand? And that, when all of Europe opens up the churches! Also, in the past month, we have become the first to record deaths worldwide! Do you know that? The successful New Democracy government that did everything well! And Velopoulos doesn't say so. Oh, no! It is said by the University of Johns Hopkins. There is a document that I shall also table in the Minutes. And that's so you don't fool the Greek people! With the Greek Solution you will have tolerance and support for good, but in wrongs and lies we will be against all of you! Lies end with the Greek Solution! We're first in death! That means you don't do anything until today. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're really doing a really good job in March. That's true! In March, SYRIZA helped you, and we and everyone. We supported you to help all parties with the government over a pandemic that was coming. From that point on, you didn't listen to anyone and do whatever you want. You wanted Moses to be regarded as saving the Greeks! Hey, you're not Moses, not to tell you what you might be! You can also become the slaughterers of the Greeks at the end and not Moses! I told you about 'Hopkins'. Listen! Three thousand dead and go for six thousand dead in the next two months! Sweden, which has not closed the country at all, has so far seven thousand dead. If we in a month and a half have six, seven thousand, it means that we are equal to Sweden to the dead, which Sweden has not closed its market. He left her open! He didn't lose every month 5 billion! We lose 5 billion every month! That is, and we will kill the Greeks from the coronary and our own criminal negligence and will die in hunger and poverty after the coronary. Because it's a given that sometime the coronary will end. It's over! Something's gonna happen, God put his hand on it! With your vaccines - they work - they don't work - or with the drugs something will happen, but the poverty that comes is not over, I'm telling you. We'll have a lot of trouble. As for comparison, I will tell you this. I have here the suggestion made on 16 March by Mr Majorkini, Mr Layu and Mr Dermitzakis, Mr Voutsi and you in the New Democracy. What did he say? What did they suggest then? Now they're coming out and they're saying it. Now they come out and they open mouths because they understand you made criminal mistakes. What do scientists say? They say not only for diagnosis, but also for population reading, to identify potential nuclei and to make more accurate imaging of the dispersion. Since March - there are the minutes of the House - I told the Prime Minister here "Take a test and do a test. Isolate the institutions'! Nobody! They were talking about mobilizing all the diagnostic infrastructure available in Greece! Since then, the experts have been telling you! Your experts! They were called! You never did! I'm putting this down in the Minutes. Here is their letter, which you have never read, unfortunately! [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But before I close, I want to appeal to all Greeks. I'm learning from hospitals that there's a blood problem. The fellow Members of Parliament are blood donors, it is good, like the other Greeks because there is no blood anymore and there is a difficulty, to go especially to the Mediterranean Anemia Unit at the "Saint Sophia" Children's Hospital, where there is a problem with blood. Those of you who are blood donors, everyone you want, it's good to go and give blood. In conclusion, I would like to say this: you have killed the economy. Open up, says, seasonal. I mean, I'm gonna go buy, Mr. Comrade, balls for the tree, but socks for the cold I'm not buying. It's crazy what's going on. Also, what about mountain tourism from now on? There are villages, villages - I imagine that from villages you are most - that many of them lived from mountain tourism, such as Pertouli - I say to you - or the Hanans on Volos or Kaimaktsalan or Kalavrita. Let's not forget where the Prime Minister had gone to Trikala, Corinthia, where he skied when we had condolences for Macedonia, where the Prime Minister skis. These live from mountain tourism. They won't live, they won't survive. You're reducing the unemployment benefit. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, with alchemys you cannot rule. You sent cards with a reduced unemployment benefit to the unemployed. You're stealing the unemployed, you guys! You give him less money. There's no support for the focus! No support for small and medium-sized enterprises! No traffic charges, no insurance, no insurance, no! Nothing! When I say "nothing", I mean nothing! But what you did, where you raised something - and I must say that - is fines with the masks. I want all Greeks to hear what New Democracy means. The fine in the Netherlands is EUR 90, with a basic salary of EUR 1,700. The fine in Germany is EUR 150, with a basic salary of EUR 1,500. In Greece it is EUR 300, with a basic salary of EUR 500. That's who you are! I'm sorry, but that's who you are! I don't mean you. It's nothing to blame for the newly-democratic MPs you're here. I sincerely regret you many times, because you are the impediment, the barrier of the opposition and it is not your fault, but your ministers, who are unfortunately incompetent, are not helping the Prime Minister, are also lying to him many times, so he is being trapped, because that is the truth. It's the counsellors' fault most of the time. And I say that with a lot of sympathy. And I'm out of Lianos, and he's not telling us well! I don't mean the singer, this conferencier, but Liano in the Competition Committee. It says overcompensations and overprications are not in the coronary test. Where did he see that? Aren't the overprications on the coronary tests sold 70, 80, 100, 120 euros and doing 10 and 15 euros? Are we serious? Where does that man live? It's yours! You put him in! You put Liano in! I don't have anything with the man, but he'll do his job. What's the point of me paying Lianno to the independent authority? Mr. Voutsi, 400 million euros cost me the independent authorities in Greece! They cost me 400m euros! It should be five in the Constitution, all of you together made thirty-two! What for? We are talking about 400 million euros a year. With 400 million euros a year, I'd have a thousand ICUs, maybe you'll have more! Why? Why don't I give them to wages, pensioners, unemployed people, unemployed people who don't have a job to eat? We're talking about a thousand five hundred people who get 400 million euros a year! Christ and God bless you! As for the rapid test, I will only tell you about one of your departments what crime he has committed, ladies and gentlemen. The Chinese rapid test, costing $2.5, was purchased EUR 15 from the public service. It's your sympathy, Mr. Mylonakis, Mrs. Nicholas, who is of the Anti-Criminal Policy. We submitted them here yesterday in the Minutes. So, one that makes $2.5 bought 15 euros? This is not the World Health Organisation, and the lady bought it! IFET bought a surname test at half price! He went and bought - listen - nitrite gloves of a use of 17,50 euros, when the company that supplied them sold them on its own 10 euro site! On the site each cost 10 euros, not a thousand or two thousand! Look - and I am closing here - unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a country which over the last decades has been a state-owned capitalism. We have state-owned capitalism. We don't have capitalism, we don't have a left philosophy. We have state-owned capitalism of state oligarchs, state businessmen, state politicians. They all eat and drink from the state and hate the state! Unfortunately, we have closed down the Olympic monopoly and made its monopoly 'AEGEAN' with state subsidies again, just like the 'FRAFORT', which calls for EUR 175 million for the first lockdown and EUR 120 million for AEGEAN! He is called "State capitalism". Understood! The only ones happy for you are manufacturers. We are talking about EUR 13.6 billion for the next five years! I have them here, and I'll submit them to the Minutes of the House. We're talking about 13.6 billion euros! The Greek people are hungry and they don't have to eat! He's expecting an allowance, sent from the Unemployment Fund, stuck with alchemys! Here, friends and friends, you give 13.6 billion euros to your friends, to the new Bobolas, to the Mytileneus! The new Bobolas your intergroup, that is to say, the SYRIZA - unfortunately, Mr President - and the New Democracy is the Mytileneean. No one's bothering him. He's got wind turbines, energy, lignites, roads, ports, whatever there is! He's buying them not himself, but he's taking the constructions you're giving the money and he's extinguished all the other manufacturers! Do you like that? Do you like favorite Bobbollah, the new Bobbollah? Of course I'll tell you one more thing to end the story. A serious government does not take credit to pay, but produces wealth from there, from the money they have left, it gives the Greek people. But when you give 13.6 billion euros to your bunkers, these pimps, as Karamanlis told them - because they are - then today you are being forced to lie all the time. No serious government is borrowing to appoint and consume, because it cannot return the credit. They don't need credit, they need investments. He needs wealth production, he needs brains. The ministers of the New Democracy may help the Prime Minister a little, because you made them a salad. When with the 'January' you did not make a single request to make money, as if we had it in our pocket, then the ministers are incapable - unfortunately, I will say it directly, referring to the government and not to its Members - but you also become dangerous for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. You forgot to say that this vaccine company has EUR 4.5 billion for eighty-six infringements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u75	Here, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u76	I want to make a political statement with reference to what the President of Greece said and a correction. The political statement first of all is this: I believe that Mr Velopoulos' rhetoric was a straight and conscious feeding of the spirit of phobias in the light of the vaccinations, whenever they are done, in a society that has her questions, her questions, her questions, her questions, but she has great fear and we should all be able to help and encourage so that we can really wait for what the scientists of the global scientific community have to do so that the country can get through and overcome the nightmare of the coronary. This was a political declaration on the whole rhetoric in this matter by the President. I hope that the Government and the relevant parties - because we are talking about health issues, documents tabled by the President in the Minutes - will have the sensitivity and the debt to be directly opposed to this rhetoric. I would like to make a redress, because perhaps the President did not have the information. He said something about the Prevention Institute that Mrs Linou is leading or is a member of. The Prevention Institute is leader among eight institutes from eight European Union countries which, among all the issues that look at the epidemic scientifically, also have the task of making plans for the possibility of sound access and of migrants and refugees to the health systems of all countries. It has not taken either 1 euro from the Greek State nor is it in any way related to NGOs, which, in my opinion, also need them - in relation to immigrants and refugees. This is for the Minutes because, of course, this lady is not a member herself to say so. On the first point, I consider it particularly critical, but it is a matter of policy, for which I felt obliged to make this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u77	Mr Velopoulos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u78	I would like to say to the President with all due respect that Mrs Linou is clearly in this NGOs, but the unfortunate thing about me is that the Greeks to go to the hospital pays, Mr President, for decades while they go and charge the health system. That's what I said. Of course, in the statutes, they say they receive funding from the European Union. I don't know, isn't it from the European Union? They get funding from the European Union, that's what I said. Now it's where the money comes from, okay, they're getting money anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u79	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, I owe you a minute. Do you want me to or should I go to the Speaker's directory?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u80	I want to talk, but the Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u81	Again, Minister? You've consumed all your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u82	Everyone is talking a lot more, Mr President. First of all, Mr Velopoulos' position obviously creates a huge problem at a very difficult time that is facing not only Greece but the whole world. Let us be a little more careful about how we place ourselves on such a serious issue and how we can lure the world into something that is completely contrary to the protection of its health. But that is not the main reason why I did not ask for it. I asked him why Mr Velopoulos left a hint - at least so I understood it - about the entire archaeologists sector. He said the late Manolis Andronic had told him that few archaeologists are poor. He said this after discussing the archaeological cave, leaving it clear that archaeologists are carrying out a miserable exercise of their duties, and he combined it with this phrase by Andronikos. There can be no suspicion of an entire industry, and a phrase of Andronic that I knew could mean two things: or that archaeologists from older generations were mainly from wealthy families, and in that sense they were not poor, or because archaeologists are a sector that has never paid particular attention to money. When we are going to talk about a sector in which we can disagree about too many things, but it is due to the protection of the entire cultural stock of this country, let us not leave any shadows.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, would you like the floor to make your speech? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while the epidemic is wailing, while the country lamentes around a hundred victims at least every day, while society is struggling for its present and future, and while the country is in the last positions and tackling the pandemic of the second wave and the economic consequences, the New Democracy continues its policy almost as if nothing were going on, with cynicism, authoritarianism, analgesia and, above all, bills on bills that come into a parliament which cannot function in the best possible way because of the pandemic. In all of this I really see an ideological impulse with elements of authoritarianism but also evidence of a populism of the so-called excellence. Health personnel give battle to the public health system. I am not going to talk about what is well known, what happened with the double-tracking, with the private hospitals, etc., but about this humiliation of hospital health personnel, a humiliation which, up to the point, has been punished by people who stuck COVID -19 as if they were on holiday in Santorini or on the other hand being punished in other ways. Throughout this context, the pandemic and its consequences have been created a "fine wall" of communication, which is almost impenetrable. Greece has been accused by the European Union itself of orbanism. Greece entered the "multures", i.e. "masticism", unbelievable monopoly, which also reaches a new-year-old boot in the media, on television channels: To abolish the provision of a "North Korean" former Minister, Nikos Papapas, which provided for the four hundred employees. Work relations are completely changing twenty-fifths of the journalists' fights. This is humiliation. That's for me. That's the clue. Of course, I am not going to talk about authoritarianism, about the anti-democratic methods that we have been experiencing lately. I will be staying in a debate by Mr Chrysochoidis, which I would like to see recorded and recorded in the Minutes of this House: 'The great discourses that are evoked about democracy hide a decadent, boring and unscrupulous attitude'. And now he brings the law for the police to the universities. We will come back to this by the Committee on Formatic Affairs and then here, in plenary, in the draft education legislation. But I would like to say, as a university, that the humiliation of teachers and teachers with such a provision of police rule cannot and must not pass. It is a humiliation to the democratic conquests of this place. I am not going to say, of course, about the mud, I am not even going to trouble, I am ashamed of society having dead and some people counting one house of the same political leader instead of looking to see what is going to happen with the pandemic and its consequences. They count one of Tsipra's houses, not thirty two others. I mean, mercy! Mercy, when what is happening in the country is facing such problems! But here we have a bill that comes with fast track procedures too. Within two days we had to see the bill, we had to see additional provisions, another bill was in consultation, another bill came to the House with at least twenty more articles, if I'm not mistaken, plus amendments in the middle of the night - saying 'in the middle of the night', we mean the night that passed -, of crucial importance. A bill concerning the country's greatest wealth, cultural heritage and the management of archaeological resources comes. If Finland has oil and has social policy, Greece has its cultural heritage and could pursue a huge social policy. I shall speak in my dentext of this whole plan, as we have seen, and as we have prepared it. Therefore, instead of us using this great wealth of stocks for wider social policy, we are starting to trade and sell out literally in the middle of the night. At the moment in pandemic, with the situation as it is throughout society, but also in the area of culture, instead of having a quick piece of legislation, direct legislation, to deal with the problems of people of culture, such as most countries in Europe, what do we have? Another piece of legislation, which has nothing to do with urgency. The HOTH, Minister, the Panhellenic Heritage Federation of Accuracy, again performed the day before yesterday from outside your ministry. What Mr. Claus Gregoriadis said as requests doesn't make them out of his mind neither SYRIZA nor Mer25 nor the Communist Party of Greece, nor anyone else. We are representatives of the people and transfer what they say. You tell us that 'I gave figures here to the House'. Talk. People are asking you for specific things. They ask you to extend the register, ask you for the allowance, ask you for rent, suspension of payments TEKO etc., not to stay people without water and electricity. They're hungry. That's the kind of bill you had to bring. The four amendments we have tabled, Minister, should be in this bill. You've taken them with praise. You said they were right. You were also committed to some of them. I submit here a document from the Association of Publishers of Greece, what they say about the field of the book. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were also committed to VAT and the right to public borrowing with one-off aid of EUR 350 000. You were committed. Enhancement wants intellectual and related rights, management agencies. You are bringing an amendment here concerning two groups on copyright and related rights and leaving out the amendment that we tabled. You bring her, Minister, today. Say you bring them in. I will vote for them with four hands and applaud you. I don't have to say SYRIZA did it. Political power, the National Representation - I said it to the committee - must be lifted to the extent of circumstances, not'my own, yours'. What society is shouting underneath we must at last listen to, so that we do not go to other impatiently difficult. Accept them, bring them in and say that the New Democracy and the Minister have done them. I'll be with you, I promise. But today, don't fool people after ten months of pandemic. We need a cultural new deal right now, so that we too can maintain our optimism, but also our future, as a society. I will now come to some of what you have said and in dentistry I will return to the law as a whole. Madam Minister, you spoke of ICOMOS and the antiquities of Venizelou. Is it important that the World Assembly, the ICOMOS International Assembly, made such a decision? On the other hand, it raises many questions about the fact that members of the CSCE, who you have sent a letter before the convention takes place and that decision is taken, asked for the ancients to be seconded. Is it true or isn't it? Is it also true - have we asked you many times - that you went to the Council of State? We've never received a convincing answer. Madam Minister, the Prime Minister himself must apologise to Thessaloniki. It is the same person who went there, without any consultation, completely changed the design of the metro, depriving the city of its antiquities, but deprives the city mainly from Metro, which would have finished now, except Venizelos Station. We need to know that, when you were swinging in here in Thessaloniki, as superpatriots - not you - for the well-known reasons. But nationalism always has the patriocardia and the business in the two pockets of his jacket. I want to come to two other things that are very important. Firstly, Article 59, which was made in Article 48 plus an amendment that entered. Madam Minister, do you know what a future historian will say? That you spend the night, slowly, the constitutional archaeological law of 2002. You said that for the certification, exploitation and evaluation of museums, public and private - look out, identify these - this is very good and we know who doesn't want it. Why did you bring night, Minister, the amendment? Can you explain? So since it is one of the services and for one year you have discussed them, where is the explanatory statement? Where are the scientists in charge to you, where are you excellent? Where is the explanatory statement from them to know it? Are you bringing an amendment to the night for what reason? You'll be closing museums in the province. This is what you will do in remote areas, because your certification criteria, visitability, and so on, cannot be met by these museums. But they play a very important role, of enormous value, which you completely underestimate or change. You change, Minister, the country's museum policy with this so-called lending, sloppyness, fifty plus fifty years, a century. Then you put it down to twenty-five plus twenty-five years, half-century. What do you negotiate with baca, Minister, in the absence of the Greek people? I want a explanatory statement from scientists to come here, to the House, and I call on the Members of the New Democracy - because it is a historical responsibility that we have - from now on. It is not the cultural heritage of neither the Minister nor our parliamentarians. In order to vote for something, we must have a wide range of data from experts and from society, the bodies of society. That's national wealth. Do you know what's behind all this? You told us in other words, it has also been written by an accredited journalist, who is used almost every day to praise you and present you with her work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The whole story, ladies and gentlemen, started by an investor in Melbourne. That's where it started. It is written by the distinguished journalist - and you must disprove it not only to me, but to the entire Greek people - that this investor in a foreign country - did not contribute him for five plus five years, plus five more - under conditions, Minister, which you forget and which exists in the archaeological law - and which takes a long time to borrow. Is the country doing so? And the journalist continues, looking for us, the poor, who do not understand the greatness of the country. He says, after all - he goes into the form of Prime Minister now - that by lending we can take the sculptures of the Parthenon and lend us other antiquities, but he must be long and we must have a law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u85	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u86	Just a minute, Mr President, because it is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u87	Leave time for your dentistry as well, for the bill you said. I want to protect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u88	You're right. I'll be out in a minute. We read scientific analyses - published yesterday in the newspaper 'SYNEY' and not just - for this long-term lending. Madam Minister, because it's not your property, it's not our property, we're asking for the withdrawal of the article. If it is not withdrawn, we are asking for a roll-call vote, because here we have a constitutional duty for all Members, with our name, to speak. You're changing museum policy. If you wanted to make annexes, if you wanted to change the museum policy, you needed a broad consultation, Minister. You can't do that thing like that. Do you know what you're doing? You're feeding a neo-colonial policy, which says in its core? All right, now we're not diving, but we're going and we're lending it over the long term. And do not tell me that it is for tourist, development reasons, because there is no greater development tool for monuments and exhibits in their country. This changed museum policy worldwide. You know it as well as I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u89	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u90	I'm only finishing with one sentence. This device needs immediate withdrawal. I don't involve either Benaki Museum or anything like that. There's no provision, I won't talk about it. You humiliate, Minister, everyone. You humiliated living and dead at the Brana Museum. Delivoria, Kundurus, Roura Sifnahu. You humiliated them. You went to get a museum like this. You have reached the shameful point, but I would also say that a decent decision has finally been taken to withdraw this provision. We're asking for reinforcement of the Brandenburg Museum. You cannot humiliate yourself in this way and the cultural heritage and what civil society is making. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Following on from what Mrs Anagnostopoulos said, I would like to inform the House that a request has been made to the Bureau for a roll-call vote by SYRIZA. It will be distributed to the parliamentary groups and the Bureau, which will, after consultation with the President of Parliament, announce when it will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u92	What articles are they in, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u93	These are Articles 48, 56, 58 and Amendment 650/23.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u94	Can you repeat, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u95	Sure. These are Articles 48, 56, 58 and Amendment 650/23. We'll distribute it, Mr. Constantopoulos. We have reached the list of speakers. Mrs Zetta Makri will speak from New Democracy. Mrs. Macrie, can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u96	(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u97	We'll be interrupting for a while, and we'll be reconnected, Mrs. McCree, because there's a technical problem. The floor will now be taken by the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance on the simplification of procedures, Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, for Amendment 651 with a special number of 24 articles, which are in the bill. It is an example Mr Georgantas, I shall say it. She was kind enough to tell me to move on to the list of speakers and then speak. And it's been here since morning. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I refer to the two articles, 58 and 59, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Digital Governance, but also to the amendment, which we have the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, I must refer to Mr Velopoulos' previous position. I have to say that I am very sorry that the Step of the House was today used to express unscientific views and cause fear to our fellow citizens in relation to vaccination. Let the scientific community, let the competent authorities express their opinion and give direction. Everyone has the right to make their choice, but the Step of the House must not be used to create fear and insecurity to anyone. In relation to Rule 58, Mr President, it really makes me feel that it has been included in the request for a roll-call vote on the part of the opposition. What we are coming to do, what I think the sovereign political forces have agreed to, is that we must really support and support this tool, strengthen audiovisual production in the country, be able to use the natural landscapes of the country as an ambassador who will give added value in total to all the areas that we want to strengthen, strengthen local production through the attraction of foreign producers, and, of course, strengthen local and domestic productions. It is hopeful to begin this effort in 2018 by SYRIZA. We're here to improve it and strengthen it. That is what we are doing. But seeing the data, seeing that large productions have not been attracted to the country, we want to give an extra incentive. This incentive is an incentive that is not competitive with any domestic production that wants to be developed and strengthened. We see from the figures, which the Minister has also submitted to you in committee, that the largest amount of eligible expenditure is 3,300,000 to date. And of course we want to motivate large productions and put limits on both the lower and upper limits. When we talk about a minimum amount of eligible expenditure, 8 000 000, that means that at least this production must be 20,000 000 000. In other words, we are addressing international productions, which are above the amount I mentioned and which you understand will give the country, the promotion of natural landscapes, the strengthening of tourism, culture, our history, the knowledge of our history, to anyone who tries to make production or co-production in the country. That is why, and without restricting and removing anything from what we have promised in relation to domestic businesses, we are doing this effort to develop even more this sector which will, anyway, also need the synergy of domestic businesses and producers. It is our commitment that the money, which is available in the reserve, will be strengthened whenever necessary, so that any undertaking which fulfils the conditions, will not remain outside the aid provided for. It is a dynamic way of dealing with and managing this overall effort that we are making to get into this area. So let us also see this new level, which we are trying to create for attraction and we will be judged by it. So I really think that the very good effort, which started two years ago, is being deceived by some people with their current refusal, which I consider to be unjustified and politically not strong. In relation to the amendment, which was tabled and to which the Minister referred, we have the description of a procedure which is necessary for the protection of intellectual property rights, which may be used for exploitation. The important thing here is the possibility of direct intervention. The possibility of direct intervention in such a case is given, but at the same time there is also the security system for anyone who is applying for and asking for this direct intervention without ultimately being justified. That provision clearly provides that, by appealing to the administrative court, the person whose right was ultimately challenged to claim compensation in respect of the damage suffered, as determined by the Court of First Instance, is entitled. So at the same time we can ensure and protect the right of what is believed to be insulted in order to be able to protect it before the exploitation of its property, its intellectual right. At the same time, in order to exclude abuses of such a case, we put the fee before the administrative court for any person who can finally prove that he was the beneficiary of that right and the administrative court is ultimately entitled to the other person who was initially restricted. It is a process that needs to be done, as you know very well that it is common to have such intellectual property violations. I think that also with the authorisation provided for, which will define the details, we will really be able to deal with this issue adequately and effectively as well. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. Let's make an effort with Mrs. Makrey. Mrs. Macrie, can you hear us? Oh, no. We still have a problem. To win time, I will give the floor for a minute to Mr. Vassiliardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less time. Minister, the President of the Greek Solution spoke with arguments, substantiated what he said and testified for all the documents. Anyone who objects would do well to substantiate them, not in empty words. As far as the vaccine is concerned, it was against its mandatoryity. I mean, he said the self-evident thing. I would remind you here that Switzerland, through its government, said it would be inappropriate to have an obligation to vacate her democracy. Let's not forget that Switzerland is a country full of pharmaceutical companies. Do you have the impression that what the government said caused her fear? He also referred to Mr McCron's statements, which also clearly stated that he has concerns about the vaccine. Do you think he's making fear, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u102	Here you go, Mr. Georgioda. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u103	I do not want to create any political controversy on this issue, which I consider to be one of the issues that are resolved by scientific bodies. What I said and repeat is that the Step of the House must not take place for anyone who wants to create and cause a concern and a fear to the Greek people. Of course, everyone has the right to choose. The government said so first. Of course, however, we also have to support what the vast majority of the scientific community say is a given one. That's what we have to show. The vast majority of the scientific community, the qualified and competent people and bodies responsible for these issues, are in favour of vaccinations. I think that should be heard. Anyone who has another view, which may be minimal to non-existent, seems to me to be good not to use such a public step to express it in the way it was expressed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u104	Be well. Until the problem with speakers is resolved, I will go to the Deputy Minister of Development, Mr Papathanassis, for the amendment with a general number of 649 and a specialist of 22.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. As it is already known, the government has started a systematic effort to improve the country's image abroad. In this context, the 'Repositioning Greece' initiative was developed, i.e. the development of an action plan for the architecture of the country's international image, in other words the national brand. The first stage of this effort has been successfully completed and when the conditions allow it, the necessary presentations will be made. But, as we all understand, the harsh juncture of the pandemic does not allow it right now. As has already been announced by the head of this effort and by his very professional team, they successfully delivered the strategy, the communication account, the branding and the full implementation guide together with the tools for relocating the country that will be presented within 2021. At the end of the year, too, the courtesy of the "Onassis" Foundation is expected to be completed. Today's amendment marks that we are now successfully going to the second phase, which means better coordination between all the ministries and all the institutions. So, with this amendment, supervision is transferred to the Directorate-General for Coordination, which, moreover, has the main reason in the horizontal matters of government coordination. The development of the country's image is not, as you can see, a ministry or a sector, but it is a product of coordination of many ministries. The project will proceed in 2021 with the production of the necessary material and the implementation of the planned actions. It will cover all public bodies and bodies, possibly also the communication campaign abroad. Enterprise Greece, as a body promoting the country's economic extroversion, will continue to support and contribute in future the Directorate-General for Coordination. The progress made in implementing and promoting the national brand abroad will also be clearly dependent on the development of the pandemic. Clearly we expect this to end in 2021. This campaign will therefore be officially launched. It is understandable that the challenges of the pandemic have carried this important event back over a period of time. But we believe that this campaign will start very soon. The best way to complete this effort is under the supervision of the Directorate-General for Coordination. Thank you very much, Mr President,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr Papathanasis, and respect for the time. The problem remains with our association with speakers. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Vasiliardos. He will normally make his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to supplement the Minister, who unfortunately left, that the truth never causes fear. If anyone says it, it doesn't cause fear. He just says he has some reservations about something. We have told you from the outset that we are against compulsoryity. There are too many countries against the mandatory requirement of vaccines. Minister, what was that true about hiring our archaeological monuments for decades? Ninety-nine years? Who's imposing it? The troika again? We say this because it reminds us of the concession of the two thousand three hundred monuments in the superstition, which was finally undone after the protests of society as a whole. This superstition has transferred our entire public property, without even assessing its value, to this superstition that has committed itself to its establishment the internal troika that signed the third memorandum. We always mean New Democracy, PASOK - Change Movement and SYRIZA. Since the first day we are in Parliament, we are trying to understand how the government means liberalism without any success, as we see it adopting a kind of liberal statement with rename bills of existing public services and with a clear aim of hiring more civil servants. The enlargement of the public with a hundred thousand additional people from 2014 to today has also been noted in the eighth evaluation, and it has recently been invoked by the invocation of the pandemic. Again, the troika, with its new name 'enhanced surveillance', calls for a 30 000 reduction in civil servants. In the present case, recruitment is carried out under the term ‘by way of derogation’ used by the Government for the last time. Strangely enough, however, not in the country’s need of fighting hospital posts. This abolition, better renamed, of the legal person governed by public law by the "Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund" to the "Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources" is accompanied by recruitments for three hundred organic posts in Article 36, costing EUR 2,53 million in the report of the General Accounting Office. Therefore, instead of covering the deficiencies in the ESS, people are being hired here. Wasn't there, really, personal in other services that could be transferred? Why does the waste of public debt continue in the stratosphere? The general government debt has now reached 208%, while central government has reached 227%. Where do you think he can still go? On the other hand, the so-called purpose of the bill is developmental, as we read in the EFF communication, which we will be tabling in the Minutes. In particular, it states: First, the upgrading of the quality of the services provided in museums and archaeological sites. Secondly, the increase in the resources provided by the visits and also the use of real estate. Thirdly, the allocation of these resources to highlight our cultural heritage and policies for modern culture. The bill also includes the organisational aspects of the new LAG organisation and various individual amendments, while a whole part of it mentioned at the Brandenburg Museum in Lesvos - was mentioned by many colleagues - was withdrawn due to poor preparation. This is evidence of the usual curiosity of the government, which we are seeing everywhere. The repealed EFF now seems to manage two hundred seventy-five archaeological sites, monuments and museums of the Ministry, with total revenues in 2019 at 135 million, as we will deposit in the Minutes. Most of them were from the Acropolis, which in 2018 had 2.86 million visitors, with revenues of 40.8 million euros, while the Acropolis Museum of 1.6 million visited, with revenues of about 5 million euros, as we will deposit in the Minutes. Generally speaking, however, since the rest were mentioned very well by our rapporteur, this is another fragmentary bill, which should be assessed in a global context, in conjunction with the revision of our economic and tourist model. Continuing now, unlike New Democracy, the Greek Solution is a party of Greek citizens who believes in the genuinely free market with a social person, supporting the middle-class, without any distinction being made between the lower and the business, alongside the workers. To be more precise, we believe in the anthropocentric national state and the principles of the mixed economy, which has nothing to do with neoliberalism of the New Democracy, namely that some economic activities should belong to the state or state, while all the others in the private sector. This situation must work like scales at times to the side of the state and sometimes towards the private initiative, so that there is always a balance in the economic sector. As national policy now cannot obey party logic or non-existent external friendships, since at international level there are no friendships but interests, but they must be guided by the security of the country, so economic policy, in modern times, must not operate with yesterday's ideologies, ideologies and prejudices. It must operate with a guide to the appropriate solution, which maximises the benefit to its country and its citizens, since the economy and politics must serve society and not society, let alone the economy. Our main objective and vision is to change our country's productive model so that it does not rely solely on the tertiary sector, trade, services and cheap tourism that exceed 80% of our GDP. Even better that we have to stop living in loan, destroying our own future and the future of our children, producing wealth and finally standing alone on our own feet, supporting our weak primary sector, agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Also, our weak secondary sector, with the centre of gravity of processing, high technology and industry, especially defence and as little as possible the constructions that have contributed to our country's overcompensation. In simple terms, we think that real wealth needs to be produced, since without wealth generation we will continue to sink into darkness and speed up the decline of our nation, if not, unfortunately, its disappearance. In other words, we will never recover, without wealth production, our national sovereignty, freedom, dignity and pride, all that our governments have sold out, sacrificing us at the altar of their prefecture of power. At the same time, through this change, we must make use of the new Greeks who leave abroad, escalating our demographic problem, all those who leave Greece not only to seek a job, but also because there are no conditions to serve their profession and to fulfill their dreams. Finally, we consider that the real political risk today is whether to be imposed on national states and finally on national peoples by elites controlling the global economic system with their huge wealth which is growing, even in the midst of pandemic, or whether the national states will resist and seek to define those courses of things on the planet. We therefore believe that the political conflict today within the national state is among the supporters of globalisation and those of the national state, clearly associated with the latter. In any case, as long as we have a global reality that has invaded our states, our homes and our lives, we cannot ignore it, continue the political conflict on the old party framework, on the old party framework, on the left - right. That is why we are reacting to these kinds of party labels, considering them outdated, obsolete and completely obsolete. The stakes today are completely different. We have realised that and that is why we are fighting, while we find that more and more Greeks understand it, supporting our efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin you will allow me to make a brief reference to a matter which is in the daily debates of all of us wherever we are, the issue of coronary and pandemic. Early this morning I was in the State General of Nice, the central hospital in my region, to stand up to the fair and reasonable demands of the workers who do not ask for anything insane, believe me. What are they looking for? They call for the subsidiary to be permanently permanently recruited, for the extra gaps to be covered, for the heavy and unhealthy ones not to continue the deforestation that we see taking place in primary health structures. I am opening a parentheses to share with you a typical example concerning my Region, Piraeus II. It was decided to transfer four nurses from Salamis Health Center to Peristeri Health Center. Those who know a little about Salamis or have dealt with the island are an island, which is truly an island that health structures are extremely problematic to such an extent that doctors and nurses are making superhuman efforts so that they can give citizens the care they should have. So from a health centre that accepts EKA and not just, and operates on a 24-hour basis, it is decided to transfer four nurses to a Peristeri Health Center. You know, I'm not gonna get into the logic of thinking and thinking about what one's doing, what needs the other health center covers. We shouldn't get into that logic. All health centers, all hospitals cover and care for the health of our fellow citizens. So we should not put them in balances and weigh each other's work and what incidents each accepts, what incidents the other receives, especially in such a critical period, such as the one we are going through, the pandemic, but see how we can really strengthen our country's health structures, not through communication solutions again, but with doctors who will be there and the next day. Because we all hope that the pandemic will leave us as soon as possible. In the first place, we have tabled an amendment on this subject, but our proposals on the issue of health are clear. What are we asking? We ask for the permanentisation of subsidiary doctors and nurses, of all people who are every moment of the day on the front line of battle with the pandemic. We are calling for a real order of private clinics and not a one-two-two-client communication order, which is being done to say that we did. We are asking for clinics to be ordered to be decommissioned by reference hospitals, and not just by cases of non-currency, if there are no appropriate infrastructure, because that too is enough. And, of course, we call for a coronary test, which will be carried out on a second level, and on a third, they will be delivered to the service of citizens as primary care centres. I now slowly enter into parts that are in your remit, Minister, which concern culture. I will catch the thread from where our speaker left it, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, who carried in the best way, as he does from the very beginning that pandemic broke out, the cry of anguish among the people of culture, who suffer 11 months of suffering, are now starving. They're people who can't stay out of context, they're our fellow humans, they're people who have to live themselves, live their families. We cannot listen, not listen to their anxiety. It is not possible to see the anxiety and pain for tomorrow in their eyes or to do what we do not see. We need to take care of them, too. Unfortunately, these people, all the people of culture, from the travellers, travellers, cleaners, technicians, lighters, musicians, actors, singers, everyone has come to a terrible fate these 11 months, having no income but also no longer having hope, since they don't know what will dawn, what will follow. Honestly, how long can we think these people will stand without any revenue? One, two, three months? That's it. We are talking about people who, frankly, have exhausted any economy that they may have, any small or large savings, any aid they could receive from a friendly and family environment and are people who have no longer had any way of survival. It is a truly large proportion of citizens, but also small, none of our fellow citizens can live in a situation of uncertainty, hunger and misery. In addition to the support, which is a part, we think that there should be a slap in the face of an adequate and thorough plan on how to function and on how to restart the work of the cultural sites after the pandemic. Whether with vaccines or in any other combined way, health care we want to believe that we will be better in a short time. From there on, we would like to know what the government's thoughts are, what the thoughts of the Ministry of Culture are about how the theatres, the musical scenes, the cinemas and all the other cultural sites that operate in Greece will slowly start again. Some time ago, about a month ago, we saw the amendment tabled to subsidize posts in theatres and cinemas. I would therefore like to ask you from this position, Minister, and to ask you if you can tell us what else you intend to implement. What are the plans that I'm sure you're working on with the Department of Health? How will all these spaces be able to reoperate? And most importantly, how will these people be able to return slowly to work within what timescale? Surely it will take too much time to say that the situation has returned in the pre- pandemic period, but to know at least when they will start to have some revenue and to return to their jobs we think it is extremely important. We hear too many positions about when culture will reopen. The point is that, as elected representatives of the Greek people and as citizens, we do not want to hear different views, which may also be ambiguous, so we would like to have an official answer from you about when culture will come out of freezing in our country. So I would ask you to take the initiative to discuss as soon as possible, as soon as it can be set up and planned, in detail, for us to have better information. Believe me, we don't do it micro-politically or critically, if you want. It is true that we have questions that we really do have, and we believe that only if we are discussing them can we ask our questions, but also have a response from you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible that the coronary vaccine, as it all shows, has been found, but unfortunately no vaccine has been found for poverty, hunger and misery, which will certainly follow after the end of the pandemic and hit our fellow citizens even more. I will close by referring to another point that falls within your responsibilities, which is the part of sport. I shall refer to an extremely important issue facing both football and volleyball. Of course, it is no more than the resumption of the championships. I'll start at football. If we go to March 2020, it was decided to stop the championships, both Super League 1 and Super League 2, as well as Football League because of the pandemic. Absolutely reasonable. It is worth noting, however, that the championships of Super League 2 and Football League have never been completed and the new racing has not yet begun, as we see that there are only Super League matches 1. What raises us questions is that all the charges play by applying the same health protocols and as we have been informed - and we can all be informed - there are relatively few cases and regular tests are carried out in the groups. So why don't you give green light to starting the Super League 2 and Football League championships? Do not take any step in this direction, there are more than six hundred athletes and their families in a daily insecurity regime and in a darkness, not knowing what will happen and when they will be able to return to the racing spaces and, of course, without access to training. I have read today statements by Mr Augias that training will slowly begin. So I would also like a comment on this, Minister. So, until they can go back to sports spaces, athletes are forced to do - individual sport, training in inappropriate places, parks and asphalt. Unfortunately, this is even more a burden on their bodies, so when they return to the field the risk of continuous injuries is very high. Of course another question that arises is when the championship starts how it will come out so it will be completed by May. We fear that it will be with a compressed program, with constant controversy and a burden for athletes eventually. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u110	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u111	It would be useful to point out that the pandemic has certainly hit all countries. But we are the only country where the championships are not held. If we see globally what happens, from Montenegro, Albania, to Italy and Spain, which have extremely increased cases and deaths every day, with special protocols, the struggles are going on regularly. Unfortunately, Greece begins by showing its complete indifference to workers in football, because they too are workers. Let's not stay where we see some first-class names, and we think they're getting great pay. Most, especially in lower categories than Super League 1, are paid the basic salary. From that point on, we cannot overlook the specific nature of the profession. An athlete is either a football player, a basketball player, a volleyball player, or any other sport, unfortunately, if he stays out of training and a racing space for a long time, his own career is jeopardized, as he has not registered matches will be difficult to renew his contract, request his registration, negotiate his registration to another team. And think if he's a kid who's now starting his career, if he started it for example last year, he's been forced for a year not to play. Of course, we cannot forget and not say that we are unfortunately putting the course of our national groups at risk. The National Women's Football A few days ago had to play a game with Germany's counterpart having been practicing a few days ago. The Pan-Hellenic Football Club has been hitting the alarm with constant interventions and announcements, highlighting the problems of delaying the start. In fact, in this way, in this practice you are implementing, you keep the players in two categories. On the one hand it is Super League 1, which are the ones who continue to fight and work and on the other hand are the other categories, the people who are waiting to live with whatever benefits they receive from the state. And of course, they show that there is no recognition of the specificity of the profession. They're people who are their business. They're professionals. That's what we have to hear from them because they know their profession better. We believe that immediate care should be taken, because we are talking about a large number of workers who are in constant hostage and uncertainty, and an answer should be given, especially in view of the fact that there are infectious people who were in favour of starting on 2 December, a few days ago. If we go to basketball, there are exactly the same issues and the same questions. Why don't they start the A2 class championships by keeping up the protocols it keeps up with and the Basket League that keeps playing properly? Also, what about amateur unions? What about the workers in the amateur unions? And I'm not just talking about athletes. How will they survive without revenue and without aid? And of course what about athletes themselves? If we look at the volleyball, and here the situation is pretty much the same, with much less cases than the rest of the sports and last year's championship being done properly, but the new one has not yet begun. Unfortunately, both from their federation and from those of individual citizens who have spoken their fear is great, because they consider very likely young children to leave sport unfortunately seeing that they have been on ice and cannot work normally even to play for the joy of the sport. Of course in the volleyball pan-Europeans, championships continue. In Greece alone, it is "bought on ice", which also jeopardizes the pan-European course of the National Volleyball, because unfortunately they will have to go down to games without training. We are therefore asking at least to be allowed to start their training if we consider that the championship should not be started as soon as possible. Finally, we must not forget that the Olympic ideal, the Olympic Games, was born in our country. Since ancient times, athletes have enjoyed excellent respect and recognition. It's time like a coordinate state to start doing the same thing. It is not enough to celebrate for victories of athletes and teams. It is not enough to applaud the actors, singers and musicians when we go to listen to them on a stage. We have to accept that everyone is hardworking. That's the truth. We must therefore ensure that people do not die in hunger on the streets of our country. We may well manage the sanitary part of the crisis, have a limited number of deads - it would be better if we had no one - but unfortunately if we do not take care, we will see people die on the street from hunger when the coronary pandemic passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, has the floor. Only please, if you speak of your position, put the mask on. If you want to take the mask off, please go up to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u113	Of course, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on the Benaki Museum, on Article 59. I think no one disputes the importance of forming, organizing a Greek museum in foreign. The feasibility is multiple. In the area of Victoria, Australia, it is not only the Ombudsman - which is, of course, also very important and multiplier in the region - but across from where the location is to be found, it is also a university. And not to forget that these universities are multicultural. They have too many foreign students and especially foreign students from Asia, especially from China, Korea, Japan and many other countries in the region. So it will be a meeting place for ancient Greek culture with the culture of Asia, the young of Asia. You understand the importance of this, in an upcoming region such as Asia, for our country. It is what we call 'cultural diplomacy' which, as former Minister for Foreign Affairs, can tell you that it is and will be very important. Because I think that we should not understand foreign policy as meeting Foreign Ministers or Prime Ministers or the relevant directors or ambassadors in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but increasingly, diplomacy is the diplomacy of citizens, society, a society that monitors, learns, has social media, social media, the Internet and plays an increasingly important role in our foreign policy. It is certainly also the cultivation of philhellenicism, as well as the economic benefit of Greece's presentation, which cultivates interest in visiting, tourism, love for our country. However, I would like to say another thing at a time when many important issues are emerging internationally. A first issue is the question of democracy. Because, if you wish, of the attack and of the emergence of authoritarian figures, even in countries that are democratic, the concept of democracy - and of course also because of the development of Asia and, in particular, China - is being discussed and deepened again. And where are they going? They come back to ancient Greece to see the roots of this very important concept, for which we have fought all of us, those who are here in this Parliament - and not just - and our people many times. This is an important concept, because in a multilateral system that is currently developing, we see with pandemic the great need for cooperation between cultures, among the peoples, between countries. In order for a multilateral system to function, it will have to de facto formulate some common values. What will be these common values of the world, of mankind, if you want? There will be a battle, there will be one - if you will, I hope, only peaceful - conflict of ideas, opinions on what these values are, which we consider to be important, so that a multilateral system can operate in peaceful ways, by law and not by imposing the mighty one. Certainly there will play a very important role mainly in these ancient concepts that will, of course, be symbolized in such a museum, not only there, but in other parts of the earth. So, if we are talking about the people of the world and about the new one at international level, that kind of initiative is very important so that Greece can have a say, a presence and, of course, a real life of democracy for the world. Now there are some fears - to which I should like to refer - which have been expressed here in the Chamber and which I understand, but I think they are unfounded. Archecomb is a great scourge for our country, not only for us, but for many other countries, especially in developing countries - third world countries, as they have said before - countries under the 'bottom' of imperialism. There was great theft of cultural wealth, tradition from various, found after either private hands or in foreign museums. So I understand that there is also a fear, a reaction - if you like - to give out one of our own ancients. I would say, however, that here we are talking about exactly the opposite. The archaocaust is something that is illegal, opaque and, of course, there are various motives for this. This bill with this article helps precisely to create an anti-motivation for archaocapilia. Why? Because, first of all, it is an institutional relationship between states, with transparency, with systematic procedures being assessed, which is accountability, and which, of course, both parties are committed. So such a logic means that there will be no motives, if that, of course, is extended at some point. I know that there is a debate whether or not we should in other cases. But if some museums know that with the Greek state they can cooperate with institutions and indeed have a very interesting presence of Greek antiquities, without running to the various houses of Sotheby's - and I don't know what else - these objects are usually stolen, of course, that will prefer. So there will also be an anti-incentive for the issue of archaocapilia and not the other way around. I would also like to respond to what has been said, however, that these ancients cannot be seen by Greek citizens or even by tourists. First of all, the importance of these antiquities should be assessed by the CSCE - should we not, Ms. Mendoni? - that we know is sufficiently strict on many issues, not just on them. This is a first step, I think, which helps not to leave our country one we consider, which the CSCE believes is of particular importance for them to stay in Greece. Secondly, Mr Constantopoulos has proposed a solution that I think is good - let us hope that the Australians too will accept. In other words, to reduce the years and to evaluate the use of borrowings of these antiquities periodically. The third, though, which I can also tell you as a witness myself, since I was at the Ministry of Culture at a time in my youth, but beyond that and as Prime Minister, is that I had visited the museums many times, the Archaeological Museum in our country. In stores there are infinite archaeological findings. These will not only be seen by the Greek in his life, not only the tourist, but not by the sun in a hundred or two years. So taking advantage of these very important ancient ones from the other peoples who do not have this wealth, instead of in the warehouses, I think that it is a very great offer to homeland and Hellenism. Instead of being in the darkness of a warehouse, they will shine, passing the ideas, the spirit of Hellenism, antiquity to other peoples. Finally, I would like to mention another important case. I was honoured - Mrs Mendoni will remember, because she was with me - with Mr Zul Dassen - a very good friend and wife of Melina Mercouri - to attend the Committee of the Parliament of Great Britain, where they were talking about cultural robbery. It was not just the subject of Parthenon’s marbles, of course. They were also associated with World War II for many thieves from the Nazi occupation in many countries. Our main argument was that the marbles should be returned, but that there should be an institutional relationship between Greece and the British Museum, where there would be a lending of antiquities, so that they could actually have their reports in Britain, but that return - which we all wish - of the Parthenon Marbles. It was very important and Mr Dassen's presence and I, as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, adopted and promoted this concept. So, with this article, our argument to the English, to the British, "Come and sit", as you did with Australia, "to find something similar for the Parthenon Marbles, to turn and find you other, credit, which can be replaced, on certain terms, by being transparent in your own museum". I think that for all these reasons we have no fear of voting on this article and I think it will be very important for our country too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u114	Thank you too for keeping time. Let's take a test to see where we're with Mrs. Zetta Makri.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Mr Augiakis, wait a minute, to see if we can move on, if we have restored the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u117	I can hear you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u118	Good, and we're listening. Now you have to wait now to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, responsible for sport, Mr Aygeakis, who will be referring to the amendment - if I am not mistaken - 647. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will be extremely brief. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I propose the amendment we have tabled in time to the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and to amend the provisions on the timing of the antiquities of sports associations, due to the special circumstances caused by pandemic. But, before I refer to the provisions of the amendment, I would like to inform the National Representation for the Registry of Sports Associations, which is directly linked to the amendment I am proposing. It was signed just two days ago and by Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis, the joint ministerial decision, which concerns the definition of the framework, the terms, conditions and criteria for allocating the exceptional financial aid to the rightful amateur sports clubs. Payments will start next week and will be entitled to the financial compensation for specific purposes totalling EUR 12 million for amateur sports clubs that have completed the application to register them in the Online Register of amateur sports clubs, 'cook' one or more sports for which they have received special athletic recognition and have declared the number of sports that they are 'cooking'. The amount to be received by each beneficiary association is as follows: The basic amount for the financial aid for specific purpose of the associations ‘growers’ a sport is set at EUR 2,500. For clubs that cultivate more than one sport, the upper base amount is increased by EUR 1,000 per additional “green” sport. In the meantime, the two thousand are approaching the perfectly legal and householded amateur unions that have been pre-registered in the Register of Sports Associations of the General Secretariat of Sports. And we are doing all this with absolute transparency, ladies and gentlemen. That is why there will be a relevant list of the money that each club receives from the General Secretariat of Sports, posted on the site of the General Secretariat of Sports. This transparency and these initiatives are the answer to those who said that the Minister will give whatever money he wants and, wherever he wants, to any union he wants and that he will buy the union vote ahead of the federal elections. Some colleagues were just saying here, in this Chamber, we'll be talking about a list of Ausgekis who's coming to manipulate the clubs. For all these bad remarks and the excesses of opposition parties, I did not hear an apology, a "Minister, we wrongly blamed you". But we are not dwindling and we are continuing our work systematically. Until this morning, Thursday 10 December, we have five thousand five hundred seventy-seven clubs opening a tab at the Amateur Union Registry of the General Secretariat of Sports. Five thousand two hundred sixty-sixteen unions proceeded to the application. Three thousand eighty-seven unions completed the application, a thousand thousand forty-four unions are expected to complete it from day to day, and three thousand three hundred eighty-eight clubs have already been controlled by our services on a racing and economic level and a thousand nine hundred sixty-seven unions are completely legal and household. In addition, the Ministerial Decision extending until 31 December 2020 the deadline for treatment on any observations made to requests from associations that have already been submitted was published in the FEK. As far as the amendment is concerned, with paragraph 1 we are transposing the timeframe of the elections to sports associations and federations specifically for the antiquities that were to be carried out in the year 2020. The pandemic, together with our aim of broad participation in the elections, imposes a further shift in the timing of the proclamation of antiquities, as well as the time for submitting the electoral list to the General Secretariat of Sports to be validated on the basis of the electronic register. For the above reasons, these times shall be placed from 1-1-2021 onwards, i.e. after the completion of the second reporting cycle. It extends the period of the antiquities until 31 March 2021, in order to make sporting organisations available a three-month period and to ensure a comfortable time, which was a constant request from most federations. In addition, the terms of office of management boards shall be extended until 31 March 2021 in order to allow the proclamations from 1 to 2021 to 31-3-2021 to be procured. Paragraph 2 provides that members of the board of directors of sports association or federation and so on who are holding elections in breach of the timeframe laid down in the amendment shall deduct their office by means of an act of credentials issued by the General Secretariat of Sports. Finally, it is laid down that this compulsory postponement of the elections does not apply to the conduct of the antiquities in order to highlight the statutes of the Hellenic Football Federation, for which the provisions of its statute apply only. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u120	Thank you too, Mr Ausgeakis. Now we'll go to Mrs. Makri, then to Mrs. Sakorafa, which will have to come to the Chair at 3 p.m., and then to Mr. Kegeroglu. At this point, I would like to thank Mr Kegeroglu, who was kind enough to come down to help because of the problem we had.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u122	You have no say, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u123	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u124	No, Mr. Comrade, no minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u125	Just give me a minute to substantiate the personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u126	I didn't hear anything from anyone on staff! You're embarrassing me, Mr. Comrade. I don't remember listening to anything on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, before you, it happened to the previous President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I say this. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Christidou, and then SYRIZA's spokesman, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, personally, referred to me with too extreme...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u129	The committee has referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u130	The committee and the people have been told about anti-democratic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u131	I am sure, as far as Mrs Anagnostopoulos is concerned, that I have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u132	They referred personally to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u133	Okay, I'm not saying you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u134	I would therefore like to reply on what has been said and which concerns me personally, both as a Member and as George Stylion, but also as chairman of the committee. Give me a minute, Mr President, and I will not get any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u135	Here you go, Mr. Style, you have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to make this clear. The committee did not meet yesterday for the first time. We have been meeting since July 2017 for a year and a half. My attitude has been democratic and tolerable and polite for all my fellow Members, independent party or party from which they have been elected and participated in our committee. The Civic Opposition and only the Civic Opposition, and only a number of specific Members from the Civic Opposition are trying to make a communication show that is part of SYRIZA's general policy with lymph and communication extremes, such as those we have been living in the last few days, using the institution of the chairman of a permanent committee of the Parliament and accusing him without being right. Because the President works, and so I did myself the day before yesterday, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I referred to a specific article, Article 66 and paragraphs 8 and 9, and I asked Members to read these articles, on the basis of which the debate is organised. This cannot be done under any circumstances, especially when the SYRIZA rapporteur is given more than thirty-five minutes to speak, when normal time for all other rapporteurs is fifteen. And there's no question of what I'm saying because it's recorded in the video that's on the Internet and any Greek citizen can see it. I would therefore suggest that when you have 15 minutes of speaking time, you abuse and you reach thirty-five minutes, it is extreme and exaggerated at the end to turn from SYRIZA and blame the President for having authoritarian behaviour, that he does not let them be inconsistent, that he does not let them speak as much as they want, and that this should be at the expense of the other rapporteurs, special speakers, against the Members of Parliament, and that we do not have a debate on the basis of the rules, principles and ethics, as the Greek Parliament does.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u137	It's understood, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u138	So this has happened, and I would ask you to delete from the Minutes and specific statements concerning the fact that I was authoritarian and undemocratic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u139	I'll see that, Mr. Colleague, because it wasn't me at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u140	I also call for the truth to be restored by fellow Members and especially by the other parties in opposition. In fact, the special speaker of the Change Movement was also placed and supported the truth, which in no case was the same as what SYRIZA MPs say. So I call for the truth to be restored. I would like you to know that for reasons of decency and democratic function, I would like to ask them to restore the truth and to know the Greek citizens as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u141	It's understood, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, could I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u143	I hear you, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to say something for a minute because Members are waiting to speak. The designation 'inconsistent with SYRIZA Members' must come out of the Minutes, not be recorded. As for the rest of the chairman of the Committee on Forumsical Affairs, they will be discussed at the Conference of Presidents, as I have requested in my letter. That's where the President and I will be invited to talk about the incident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u145	Let's finally go to the speaker's circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u146	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u147	No, no. Answer it. We can't do that, Mr. Style. Then he'll answer again and people wait so long. Mrs. Makary's been there since 9:00 an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u148	He cannot be described and not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u149	Yeah, but what do we do now? We're not going to confront each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u151	No, no, please. We're going to give Mrs. Macrie the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u152	It's a heavy expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u153	Of course it's heavy. And one and the other. You requested that it be cancelled. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u154	Wait a minute. When time is fifteen and becomes thirty-five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u155	You said you gave thirty-five instead of fifteen. That's what it sounds like. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u156	...(not heard) No, no. Please, on both sides! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u157	It's an exaggeration...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u158	You said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u159	It's a communication show...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Style, you know I like you. You said that. That's what it sounds like. Please. Mrs Zetta Makrei has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate and the preparation of today's bill and before I refer to it - and without making any medical comments, because they understood with great surprise that this important bill was of very medical interest - I would like, Minister, to congratulate you personally, your colleagues and the bodies you are monitoring, because not only did you consider that the role of culture is fundamental to the country's new development plan, but on the basis of this concept you have designed, legislated and implemented programmes and projects that affect all aspects of society and by exploiting the enormous potential and inexhaustible potential of culture you contribute significantly to the development of society. The role of culture should be a catalyst. We have set ourselves by assuming that culture is a public asset, is a tool for development, creation and extroversion. These are, Minister,'verbatim' your own words in your public speech, where you have made it clear that you are seeking equal access and participation in culture, that you want reform and modernisation of structures and institutional frameworks and the creation of many jobs for all levels of education. You have rightly pointed out that culture is the country's image and strengthens the country's image abroad. With the imperative extroverty of the policies you are implementing, you have already made a comprehensive infrastructure, modernisation and upgrading, such as the National Archaeological Museum, the National Gallery, the National Museum of Contemporary Art, Tatoi, Venizelos Station in the Metro of Thessaloniki - and quite rightly you responded to the unfounded objections of counterpopulation - the construction of anti-military works, the establishment of the workers' register to keep the culture active and support the creators and artists. I repeat for once that you have given very comprehensive explanations. You welcomed, Minister - and rightly so - the partnership with the private sector with criteria and restrictions, with quality and measures. I will stand on your initiative to make the Parthenon one of mankind's largest monuments, accessible to people with motor problems. At the time of the Colosseum of Rome there were special ramps and paths, a monument like the Parthenon that, before the pandemic, visited it every day about twelve thousand tourists, had no ramps of disobedients. And this, although a portion of experts estimates that it was probably the first to take into account people with disabilities in the design and construction of important buildings. It therefore makes reference to the special journeys to Acropolis on the Holy Rock, which, in combination with the flagship, as the Prime Minister described as the work of the elevator, make the Acropolis accessible to all those facing motor difficulties, but also to the elderly. This is how the free space is perceived in ancient times, the visitors are facilitated and the services offered to the citizens are upgraded with movement problems and the elderly who claim and are entitled to live the experience of visiting the Holy Rock. In the legislation under discussion, such as the Ministry's leadership, the archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund, a legal person governed by public law, is reformed and renamed to the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources (OECD), so as to respond adequately to the concentration and management of economic resources and archaeological sites and museums, which will then provide them with a view to improving the operation of the sites themselves, upgrading the services provided to visitors, supporting the work of the archaeological services and the creation of new sources of revenue. A new entity is not established, it is simply restructured by the existing one. Its rename is symbolic and substantial and reflects, in full, the development activities that it now undertakes, creating, at the same time, conditions to attract investment in the fields of catering, entertainment and services. The provision of the possibility of concluding programming contracts between cultural actors and the region is an important step in the current era, because cultural clubs and associations do not have the economic potential to meet their particular and sometimes increased needs and requirements. I consider it extremely important - and I stress it - long-term enrichment. I, Minister, have chosen the word 'enrichment', because I think you should look seriously and with your legal advisers at the observation made by our parliamentary representative as a legal representative, but I too believe that even if you do not change the term 'loans', the debate that will take place in this House and your position on it will be of historic and legal value. I stressed, therefore, that the long-term enrichment of the permanent foreign exhibitions is very important in order to create strong educational and cultural centres that will strengthen the links between the family - and not only - with Greece and make our culture known and familiar. In conclusion, the culture that, according to international organisations, namely UNESCO, OOSA and the UN, is the fourth pillar of development, is dealt with by the Government and by the Minister responsible, Lina Mendoni, as a development strategic resource. There is a particular emphasis on the cultural economy, exploited and unworked and highlights the cultural heritage of the country in maximum. It was necessary to replace and modernise the existing archaic framework. It is characteristic that the institutional framework of the Archaeological Resources Fund is 1977, that is, half a century ago. This legislative initiative regulates the enormous cultural margins, aims to increase the visibility of archaeological sites, and thus also to increase revenues, always with the agreement of the Archaeological Office, always with respect for the history of the site. The relevant Ministry, your Ministry, Ms. Mendoni, operates as a protector of the cultural heritage and integrates its initiatives, as in the present case, into the more general planning of the Government to support and promote cultural action, with the aim of exploiting the whole cultural stock of the country and capitalising the possibilities offered by cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mrs Matutes, and thank you for keeping time. As always, ma'am! I will now give Mrs Sophia Sakova the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to intervene in the debate, ladies and gentlemen, since our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have fully expressed the views of our party on the proposed provisions. There are, however, separate circumstances where your conscience does not let you silence or stay. I therefore need to place myself on two specific provisions that come with amendments - additions. The first concerns the infamous Article 59, the terrible prediction of exporting monumental objects indiscriminately. Here we have an excellent sample of government legislation. This provision in the consultation provided for ten plus ten years, i.e. a concession for a maximum of a decade, with the possibility of renewal and a maximum of ten years. It was rather deception, for the bill was tabled for fifty plus fifty years, or a century. Immediately after the committee you retreat to half a century, twenty-five plus twenty-five years. That is not a responsible policy, Minister. It's just that you don't have any real design. Obviously you believe that the Greek people have been trained in accepting concessions. You've done this on several occasions with the public property of merciful memorials. But here, there is a pure government initiative that belongs exclusively to you. Indeed, you are not in danger of someone else taking away your glory. I sincerely wonder where you think you draw the power and the right to deprive of generations of entire Greeks, of tens of generations of pupils and young people, of contact with the elements of our cultural heritage and their protection in them. I don't expect an answer of course. Besides, I imagine, you would still mock society, like your communication on the concrete roads in the Acropolis. However, don't tell us that anyway the Greeks don't go to museums, because this is your responsibility, too, of the Ministry of Culture. I repeat this is the possibility for every citizen to have access to the legacy of his country. This is an internationally recognised individual right. The purpose of the projection you refer to could perhaps be served by making items available for exhibitions abroad with a limited time limit, within a national planning, by rotating exhibits and exhibitions across the globe for export efficiency. But the removal and concession for a century or even half a century for exposure to one point is another thing, Minister. It is not a foreign projection that compensates for removal. Even ten plus ten is too much. Please, if you have an example of legislating in any country in the world to export monuments for half a century, tell us. Even if you want to serve a specific case, the universal and indiscriminate legacy is criminal. It is true that the history of museum exchanges for our country is absolutely disappointing in exchange. From there, however, until the legalization without the provision of exchanges, the distance is huge. The Greek monumental material is found internationally in the front line. It is only comparable to those of Egypt and Italy, and perhaps we could add to China and Mexico. But I would remind you that with modern cultural crime the corresponding wealth of Iraq has been destroyed in much of it, while Syria has been destroyed. So the work of the Ministry, Minister, is mainly the permanent cultivation and incorporation of the people's relationship with our cultural heritage. It's not to be the manager of antiquities and sponsorships. The Ministry of Culture is very important for Greece and requires another measure of responsibility. Here's a parentheses. The measure of responsibility also shows the case of Candan, ladies and gentlemen. Recently, the Central Council of New Monuments under the chairmanship of the Minister, unfortunately, approved the extension of the quarry there on the Candan Provincial Road, despite the documented opposite suggestion. This means that an outrageous decision by the district director of Crete, Mr Arnautakis, who had only supported it there, is confirmed by the SYRIZA party and by no one else! - Neither is yours, Minister. The natural landscape in the canyon and the road monument of technical work of the beginnings of the 20th century make up a unique value total. Unfortunately, in today's Greece, this is not considered worthy of protection. The disrespect becomes even more challenging because it has a historical side. This place was also a field of heroic battles of the local unscrupulous population in May of '41 in the Battle of Crete. And all this is sacrificed for a quarry. Don't get tired anymore, you're convinced of us. If it's up to you alone, there's never gonna be anything left. I'd like to add something last for article 59. Legislation and the possibility of granting for such periods is another step by this government to undermine, destabilise and completely abandon the Greek demand for the return of the Parthenon marbles. This provision insults the dignity, credibility not only of the government, but also of the Greek state and of Parliament itself, ladies and gentlemen. I shall now come to the second amendment, that of Mr Augarian. Too bad he's gone. In the debate on the sport bill passed and made a law, Law No.4714/2020, I told the Secretary-General that the policy of the legislative haircut applied by short-term personal targets has nothing to offer to sport. In any case, it cut, closed, passed the law, adopted the proposed ministerial decision in September. On the basis of this legislative framework, which he created, a historic federation in which I, too, am part of the CAGAS, proclaimed his antiquities at the planned deadlines. And yet that doesn't suit Mr. Ausgeakis now. He feels uncertain about his invasion and control proposal, because it seems that his beans aren't coming out and he's catching the cut-off again, thinking that's how he's gonna make it. It adopts, as soon as possible, a new ministerial trial amending its earlier decision on 7 December, before it simplifies what we say about newborns. It is once again expanding the deadlines. And it brings this amendment to the next day with a single substantial object: the postponement of the SGS archivings that have been legally proclaimed, on the basis of what he has legislated and by chance is the only federation that has declared elections completely legitimate, as I said before. More photographic, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be done! I wonder why he does not even say that the elections to the European Union are being postponed, so that he can be honest with what he wants to achieve. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if he cannot push down on this cathode, I wonder, are there any other institutional factors in the government to put his brakes on it? Do you not understand that this is not a sports policy, but are they exposing you as a party and even irreparable? If you want to save your collective dignity as much as you can, do not let Mr. Aygeakis be provoked to do so. You have no other solution, you immediately withdraw this amendment of shame. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Aygeakis has often been involved in many events, but also from this step he keeps sharing money, I want him to tell me how much money he has given the federations so far. A month ago he said about all the associations - which he accused as illegal, irregular, and all the expressions that the Minister could use from this Step - that he would share money in these illegal federations, as he said. He has so far admitted that he has not given a single drachma yet. Can he tell us when he will decide to give this money so that the federations can function, so that the unions can continue the work he is not able to recognize? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, while the world is experiencing the hardships with the health crisis and the pandemic, while it is fearful and insecurity about tomorrow and while we need to strengthen the sense of trust in the state, the government brings the regulations of feasibility to one another. A few hours ago at today's meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on the committee's opinion on the proposal of the Minister of Finance to fill out the position of the Chairman of the Committee on Games, we raised essential issues relating to the role of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights within the framework of its founding law. We have raised the issue not only of the proper functioning of the toy market, but of the public interest and, above all, of the prevention and prevention of addiction, and much more, because they do not achieve it, of dealing with the problems experienced by people in this trap. We have also raised issues relating to the legality of the procedure. Unfortunately, the procedure is irregular. Law 3229/2011 in Article 16(3)(b) provides that the Minister of Finance's proposal to place a president in the Committee on Games must be one of the members of the Committee and while this has been applied in the previous period with other presidents, today the Minister of Finance has produced a proposal that does not meet these formal conditions, the conditions of the law. That is why we did not participate in the vote, we denounced the procedure, because we have no will at this time when the world is experiencing the hardships of joining parties. The same applies to other sectors. We saw it a while ago. Every three and a few minutes the Deputy Minister of Sport brings an amendment to other bills, continuing the deadlock for the Registry of Associations, Unions and federations, with a law that it recently passed. The deadlock is also confirmed by the evolution of the multi-advertised register. Only a thousand ninety-seven unions have enrolled, only 37%, even though it has spent so much time. Commands, unions, federations are suffering, sport is suffocating. Instead of leaving the register open, giving extension until 31/12-2021 and simplifying certain procedures that seemed totally useless and bureaucratic, instead of taking into account the pandemic climate, which exists in other areas, the government is giving extensions, deferring because it recognises the difficult de facto. Instead of giving the unions a breath, it closes the register on 31-12-2020 and makes it impossible to register the unions in the register. It is the same Minister who was discussing the opening of the stands and the mass turnout of fans, while the evidence and opinions of scientists were saying other things. Unfortunately, by inventing another terrain, no solution can be found. What's he doing with the amendment? That's a slut. It presupposes that the election be announced after 1-1-2021 and that any administration has declared or will be declared in the next few days to be excluded. It is obvious that the last terminology relates to the EGF, which it wants to have a party check - this was made evident from reports - and which the confederacy has called for elections on 16 and 17 January. They may have to be postponed, I'm not saying, but the legislative terminology is out of place here. This is where the understanding has its place, scientific opinion and opinion and the public interest, the interests of society. This attempt has failed in the way it is done. He has lost the ball - and it is the Secretary of Sports - Mr. Augorakis. I'm not saying it. It is said most of all by sports officials and by the New Democracy site with an open article on these issues. It's not a personal matter. It is not whether the Undersecretary or Lefteris Aeggeakis is good or bad. These choices are contrary to the public and social interest, and the government must at last assume its responsibilities in this area, so that we do not have painful effects in general on sport. I'm coming to the bill. I shall begin with the provisions that have been withdrawn. They were at the Museum - Brandenburg Oil Tract in Lesvos. It is an amazing job, a whole story, a place, a country of Olive Tree, olive growers, olive cultivation, everything related to olive oil concerns the history of Greece. We must strengthen this effort, support this museum in all ways, because that is how we support our history. The Change Movement had taken the necessary parliamentary initiatives, with its responsible Dimitris Konstantopoulos since July 2020, to proceed with the creation of the legal person, ensuring the public character and, of course, the uninterrupted functioning of the museum. In addition, recently, during the debate on SYRIZA's topical question on culture, the Minister raised the matter again and, of course, the government had shown itself positive in this story. We believed and believe that it could be done with good understanding. I am referring to previous governance, which unfortunately left the time to run without the necessary action, so that within one year the donation of the "ARCHIPELAGOS" body for this museum to the Ministry of Culture can be accepted. In March, the legalization and acceptance of the donation had to have been made. It didn't happen. We're here with the new government. I also said our speeches and the unfortunate development. I think - and I had already worked in this direction - that there could be regulation. In fact, I have also drawn up the provision - I do not hide it from you - which, with the retroactive acceptance of the donation of the 'ARCHIPELAGOS' body and the terms and conditions that we would agree and which are also there in the notary document, could have been a result at this time. I think that there has been no proper scope, unfortunate management - and I say this in general and in every direction - since the donation has been made, from the previous government to the present day. However, regardless of the evolution, Minister, I must also ask you, as Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, to give you, within the framework of your responsibilities and institutional possibilities, unlimited support to the museum, as has so far been the case in the legal form, and I believe that it will overcome the problems. It is a guarantee for the Ministry of Culture, if it stands side by side and moves in this direction. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I should now like to come to the point that has been discussed and which relates to the provision - I shall not mention a number, because the changes have changed - to the long-term export of museum collections, which has mostly been involved. From the outset I have talked about a provision that is eternary and which refers to oblivion, to forget and where they have gone. There have been discussions. Indeed, we were convinced of the need to proceed with the planned and pre-agreed process of establishing a museum based on the Benaki Museum and its exhibits and the objects that the Benaki Museum will make available. We're convinced. But there are issues. There was one step by the government that, at fifty plus fifty years, has done twenty-five plus twenty-five. We, as our rapporteur and the President, George Papandreou, previously placed, not only are we opposed to the philosophy of cultural diplomacy or, more simply, to the Greekism everywhere - in addition, it is, and will be, Hellenism through the living Greek communities that act, operate and decorate every country in which they exist - but at the same time, we are also in favour of the guarantees that have to do with Greece and its archaeological treasures. So what we are asking is this: Dimitris Konstantopoulos has proposed that it be a 20-year-old agreement. I do not know whether the agreement with Benaki and the Australians was 'you know, we want it to be twenty-five'. The question is not fifteen, twenty-five or twenty-five for us now since he left fifty plus fifty. We have two points to make and we believe that you will accept them so that we can vote on the amendment. The two themes are twenty years or, if you judge, twenty-five, based on Benaki. First of all, it is general regulation. While we say yes to Benaki's project, there is a general and vague one, which we do not know what will come to us. So there we are talking about two institutional guarantees: that renewal will be every five years, as provided by the existing provisions and with the agreement of the CSCE. No, it's not done with the opinion of the CAS. ‘Opinion of the CSCE’ means that the opinion of the CSCE may be contrary to it. Where and where? These two institutionally and there will be our position. I don't know if I'm allowed, but I'll tell you. I was eighteen years old in 1979 and as president of the school communities of the 1st High School of Heraklion, Captain, I participated in the coordination committee of actors. Of course, before the committee was set up, I have to say that, by decision of our own, the disciples were the ones who were seven days, day and night, they were outside the museum and then local society and institutions became more aware. This whole story has sealed my own political view, which says that it cannot from above without the consent of local societies and without institutional guarantees there is any export of archaeological thesaurus. On the contrary, if there are institutional guarantees, that is not only acceptable, but also necessary. Here is the challenge for us to respond to the government. Article 49 for the Historical Museum of Crete. The administration, twenty-five employees, the scientific associates, the whole potential, do a great job. It's a jewel. They honor the history and the role they have taken. The operation of the Historical Museum of Crete is governed by the Ministerial Decision of 1952. There were problems then, although there were very good cooperation with the Heraklion Museum for a long time. In order to continue uninterrupted operation, I think that you should move along with the adoption of the provision, which I think is necessary. There is, Madam Minister, a decision of the 2017 CSR, which concerns twenty-one objects. The twenty-one objects were intended to be exhibited in the site of the Historical Museum of Crete. With the establishment of the Public Museum of Mesaras, however, the data are changing. There should therefore be a statement on your part - there is not even a need for legislative improvement - which will be tabled in the Minutes, that the decision of the 2017 CAS on the twenty-one objects of Gortina, which have to go to the Mesara Museum, is strong and is not affected by this provision, which is obviously to strengthen and shield the operation of the Historical Museum of Crete. We consider the provision of Article 46 to be problematic. There was no consultation with the local society of Zygomala. So we won't vote for it. The article on programming contracts has a problem. Programming contracts, in accordance with the law and the specific provision of the Constitution on which they are based, must have at least two entities of public character or self-government - public character - or, in any case, by the entities concerned. What is not specified, and which the Scientific Committee has also pointed out, has not been seen in the Scientific Committee? - is whether the body of private law, the cultural association or whatever it is, replaces one of the two entities. That can't be it. However, it may be a third party or even a third party. In other words, two are needed to have a programme contract with a third contractor. And in this article, if there is no statement to be clear, according to the correction, we shall vote'residents'. I said two - three crucials. We have tabled an amendment. It has been recommended by Dimitris Konstantopoulos in detail. These are the workers of the Ministry of Culture who carry out debts guardian of antiquities, working systematically for six days a week, as required by the need for the continuous storage and protection of archaeological sites and museums. However, this additional employment is not recognised as a real pension. With the proposed provision, which is legally excellent, it is possible to recognise them, given time as a real pension and up to three years for twenty years of real service, which is increased by one year for every six years. I think you should accept it because it also provides for the payment of the corresponding contributions. This provision is absolutely right. Ladies and gentlemen, in my short time - because I will take it all, exhaust all my possibilities - I want to repeat some of the things I said yesterday and bothered some people, because they seem to have failed to understand or do not want to accept that this is the case, unfortunately. Pluralism and pluralism are components of democracy. That is why free regimes and dictatorships are the first to seek to monitor information, information for citizens by drowning in pluralism and pluralism. Of course, in democratic systems, the situation varies according to the ideological position of governments, the practices they follow and the purposes they seek. In critical times in our country, media control was sought. Today, the Government of New Democracy is pursuing a policy of suffocating the instruments to manipulate mass information, financing the instruments without criteria and transparency, with selective legislative initiatives and with a number of other interventions. It is obvious that the New Democracy is doing so more effectively than SYRIZA tried it in the previous period with the well-known licensing procedures and the cells it had chosen and of course its choice for SYRIZA - Kalogritsa - ANEL that failed. The reports of the 2018-2019 National Broadcasting Council, presented in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, confirm our complaints and reveal the full extent of the restriction of political pluralism. The position of political pluralism has now been taken by the bipartite monotony, since 90% concerns the government - in a dominant position - and by SYRIZA, as the report itself has captured. The bill promoted by Mr Petsas for consultation, in addition to the change in the working relationships of journalists - which caused yesterday's strike, causing the work and role of journalists to deteriorate - has too many gray and black provisions. It serves purposes, yes! Even with the incorporation of the European Union directive, which is being promoted in a lack of spirit and distortion, contrary to what the European Union has established. The Government confirms its permanent tactics against regional media, paper, electronics, radio and regional television stations, since 30% provided by law as a compulsory allocation of advertising expenditure for regional and local media is not applicable. Work subsidy, a necessary act for television stations and other regional and local means to ensure their support through work, through workers, does not exist in regional instruments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u167	Overtaxation is another precipitation for the regional instruments for which there are no compensatory measures. No regional support measures shall be promoted. This is the feature of the bill. Our position is clear. All instruments, central and regional, have a role in the public interest to support society. Not like this, however, with the exclusion of a large portion. The draft law should be withdrawn in all its provisions, unless it has the necessary resources required by the media representatives themselves, such as the extension of compulsory publications. We tabled an amendment the other day, and it was not accepted. Of course, the rules on assistance to DIGEA. All the other things that are appropriate, let us talk about them more. Let us make the dialogue worthy of Greek democracy that must have strong institutional pluralist and multi-speaking information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u168	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u169	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u170	I just want a minute to answer and get it over with. First of all, on the subject raised by Mr Kegeroglou on the subject of the Historical Museum of Crete: On 4-4-2017 the Central Archaeological Council had delivered an opinion on the request from the Archaeological Department of Heraklion on the renewal of the long-term lending to the "Cretan Historical Studies Company". He had excluded the lending of twenty plus one, that is, the twenty - one objects intended for the Mesara Museum. A ministerial decision was then adopted on 25-5-17 and excluded them. It is obvious that since they have been excluded from 2017 they cannot be included in the setting. We must therefore close this issue. He's never been put. Some people put it down. The basic knowledge of the administrative procedure could...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u171	It's not your business. It's from where they put it. That's clear. For the programming contracts: of course it is as you said, and we never said that the other public body would be missing, especially for a very simple reason. The provision speaks of buildings which are preached monuments. So the Ministry of Culture is a pretext that they will be involved, as will the regions. The other body, the legal person of private law, is obviously the third party. Finally, with regard to your amendment: I have discussed it with Mr Konstantopoulos. The sixth day for the pension of our architectures has dealt with us, and we are concerned. But it seems, at least as the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance say, that it cannot be confined to archbishops alone. There are other branches that have the sixth day as compulsory working day. Therefore, this wants an overall regulation. It's not outside our field of view, but it can't be done now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Vernardakis has the floor now. Can you hear us, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u173	I'm listening. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u174	I'm listening. Please keep an eye on the timer. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. With today's legislation, the Minister concludes the campaign of political coverage of one of the greatest economic scandals in two decades, the famous Solidarity Fund, a fund that has been an area of illegal enrichment for many years, financed by the Archaeological Resources Fund, currently under investigation of justice with three criminal persecutions, seven felonies and a flood. As a result of taking office, the Minister has taken the following steps and omissions in relation to the Solidarity Fund. On 8 August 2019, that is, even before the Ministry closed a month - the first job as if we were to say - called for a allegedly anonymous complaint from the Legal Council of State on the constitutionality of the provisions of Law 4598/2019. What did that law provide for? It actively limited the public objectives of the Solidarity Fund, therefore also related State funding. He eliminated all possibilities, consequently, to smash public money. He transferred the child station to the Ministry's services and arranged the integration of the employees of the Fund into the Ministry. This law ensured both the restructuring of the fund in a transparent and orderly manner by the incorporation of the staff of the fund into its structures, which would now fulfil public objectives. Let us take note - and let us keep this - that law was passed by a large majority of Parliament, including the then-inhibited opposition of the New Democracy, which is curious about this issue today. The Minister never applied the law, never changed the law, never amended the law, only does it not abuse and illegally. On 30 October 2019, it amended the composition of the five-member transitional board of the Fund and added two members of the federation to the Board of Directors of the Fund. It also replaced the director of the fund, despite his important contribution to the investigations by the competent authorities on the issues under investigation. Why did he make these changes? A first reply was made on 5 December 2019 and while the fund was already liquidated in order to allow for majority approval of a request from the Federation to finance its tenth meeting in breach of a number of provisions and while pending in the Prosecutor of Corruption proceedings for felonious infidelity of members of previous management boards of the Fund and public officials, including for illegal financing of the federation by the Fund. It puts the fund in operation. In fact, the liquidation works as a vehicle to fly into the street workers of its non-purpose and of the federation's unlikeness to the imaginable shape of suspension of contracts it did a few months ago. Suspension of contracts means absolutely no right to compensation, dismissal or unemployment benefit from the OAED. And all that in the middle of a pandemic. The liquidation further acts as a vehicle to cover the unlawful acts for which the Federation's leadership as members of the Fund's board of directors is accused. Note this point: The liquidator was given responsibility to reconstitute files, which did not exist in the law of liquidation, but was given a joint ministerial decision by the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Finance. It is a matter of competence, of course, which is not linked to the purposes of the liquidation, nor is it linked to the administrations, but it is obviously linked to the pending criminal proceedings. What files were allegedly lost from the fund and used for reconstitution? The minutes of the Governing Councils and the Protocolbooks of 2015, 2016 and 2017, which have not been lost but disappeared. There is a charge of misappropriation of these elements at the time the fund was taken over by the federation's leadership as a manifestation of a alleged protest about the cessation of the then director of the fund, who is accused of false loans and aids, and the information has confessed to his act. Who serves to reconstitute misappropriate practices, i.e. to build data? The defendants. To whose weight? The Greek State from which the funding was derived. At the same time, the Minister undertakes to restore the profile of the accused in the criminal and felony prosecutions. One of them, the president of the federation, who also appeared at the hearing as a fanatical supporter of this bill, becomes a member of the Ministry's committees. Another shall become Head of the newly created independent internal control unit for combating corruption. It is a service which comes directly to the Minister himself. The wolf guarding the sheep. But the Minister also does through its omissions. Although she has been notified once and twice and three times of a criminal prosecution document on the five crimes at first by the Prosecutor of Corruption for over a year, she refuses to exercise her disciplinary duties. And second criminal prosecution for illegal loans for misappropriation of public money again. And third criminal prosecution, on 19 November, that is a few days ago from the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office to today's President of the Federation, the one who had come to the committee to support the bill for violation of duty. I would also ask our parliamentary representative, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, to present the Minutes, as she is in the Chamber, in the minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Sia) Readingstopoulou, presents, on behalf of Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, for the Minutes, the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Senography and Practice]] In other words, the same person appears in eight criminal offences, the Minister does not understand, prefers to be charged with violating his own duty rather than exercising his statutory formal duties, even in order not to raise possible suspicions of cover-up or collapsing with this abscession of the political syndicate. This is therefore being extended until 31 August 2021. The cloak of illegal acts, the definition of misuse of power! Instead of the Minister applying the law and running the nursery at the Ministry of Culture, he prolongs the liquidation, supposedly not to close the nursery, but obviously because he still has issues to be settled, i.e. cover-up. And it does not fail to do another thanks to the Federation after this: it today brings for the vote a provision which provides for an ex officio member of the Federation to participate in the board of directors of the new body, the archaeological resource fund, which is renamed. And not to forget that the Archaeological Resources Fund was the legal person governed by public law from which the large bleeding of public money took place. The Fund provided funding for the Solidarity Fund. Assuming at least EUR 282 000 certified, for the last three years alone, money from the EIF by members of the Federation, which have been sewed since 2002 by the Solidarity Fund. Instead of bringing them in, instead of exercising their disciplinary duties, as it has a duty under the law and leaving justice unaffected to do its job, the Minister is rewarding them today with a post on the board of directors of the new agency, and even ex officio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u177	Just a second, Madam President. The Association of Greek Archaeologists, for example, does not participate in this board of directors, one of the country's largest and most historic scientific associations, but participates in this strange federation, involved in illegality. It's at least challenging. And as I have heard the Minister, who has spoken about the fact that he does not protect the workers of the fund because he allegedly has an opinion from the Legal Council of State as unconstitutional, I would like to tell her that the opinions of the Legal Council do not make them acceptable, because the opinion of the Legal Council of State is also a legal person governed by public law, so he can solve the problem with workers either by applying the laws of mobility or by applying the opinion it has from the ADP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u178	Mr Colleague, let me have a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u179	Mrs Mendoni, unfortunately with your policies you cover a group of interests, which has nothing to do with the unioning and representation of workers. Two questions and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Comrade, please! I think you can hear me. You're at nine and a half minutes. You're done, please too. I warned you a minute and a half ago and you asked me for a second and you spoke another one and a half. Please. It's not right what you're doing. Finish your conversation, but this is the last time I will allow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u181	Two questions: First, why are you doing so? Why would such a zeal cover up so many illegalities? And secondly, what really does the New Democracy Party think about this policy of the Minister? So many former Ministers of Culture belong to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Can't you ask them what was going on with this image in this ministry? Well, roll-call vote to see who's covering and not that illegality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mrs. Fotini Pipili has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u183	Madam President, in the six and a half hours that we expect the ordinary Members to speak, three times the battery has fallen from the two tablets I have. I express my displeasure. A half-hour period has elapsed, and the constitutional equilibrium has not been observed for us Members, and not only the tidals in the parliamentary assembly. One comment: the founding, incarceration and dismantling of the administration of the Ministry of Culture is the impediment from the speeches of various colleagues of the Anti-Population. Truly, the functions of the Ministry and the services with all that have been heard are denounced. I was also impressed by some of the opposition that, where we are concerned, we want private criteria and not the Ministry of Museum Managers, where we are not interested, we do not want the state to be the absolute ruler. Thirdly, because metro antiquities have been heard again, one thing to say: because we became MPs, we do not know everything. Abu Sibel in Egypt since the 1960 ’ s has been divided by Egyptian workers into a hundred and twenty thousand pieces so that it does not drown from the Aswan dam and Lake Nasser and is now a global symbol of transfer of antiquities and resettlement to a safe place. So let all those who are supposedly archaeologists go to see what happened in Abu Sibel in the 1960s to understand how simple that is to be in some antiquities in the Metro of Thessaloniki. That's enough of that "fruit"! We have two areas: the economy of culture and the diplomacy of culture. The diplomacy of culture began in 1979 when, as I told you in committee, it became a complete Greek conflict, because then the local communities rose up, when the Metropolitan Museum of New York asked to go for some exhibits from the Heraklion Museum, with the invention that it passed in the local society that Greece suddenly gave the Disk of Phaistos, please. Karamanlis returned, who was then struggling to put us in Europe, annoyed and canceled this mission, and then the country that had not yet discovered diplomatic policy in the 1970s was divided internationally. The LPD collapsed, condemned, humiliated and also a law of Č77. Whatever rots must be born new. I don't understand why we're wasting so much time! A legal person governed by public law remains. It will be more flexible and - most importantly - with flexibility and modern technology and development, money will be given, as Mrs Koutsouba, the President of the Archaeologists, again to the Ministry to improve conditions and to have greater visibility. In other words, even for the toilets - which until a few years ago were humiliating us, I don't know, I haven't been to Stoa Atalou - I was asked by the cleaners to tell the Ministry to give money to be cleaned, which could not be accepted by people with disabilities. Also with this money that will flow, we will make the visitability and safer and the monuments will be protected from climate change. And most importantly, Minister, many people hate him and consider him a bogeyman to be the precious treasure that archaeologists are, just don't let them get a twist and find in the field some ancient ones, because expropriations and people are not being made on time. We're going to the Benaki Museum at issue. I said before to committee that in 1999 the global exhibition was held in the National Gallery where all the museums in Spain, from Prado, from Toledo, from New York, from Washington for many months here in Greece brought the unique collection of El Greco, worth 5 million each sketch and 30 million works each. And then they said "bravo" to Greece, and we Greeks who now want to keep it all here, in the storerooms of the Ministry of Culture, for example, or in the warehouses of the Benaki Museum, we cry and we resent because the "bad" foreigners will take the ancients. For God's sake! Here is one way, firstly, to save the great Benaki Museum and, second and foremost, it is wrong to think that everyone is born in the world knowing the culture of Greece. The culture of Greece is known by foreigners, as we first know Egypt, Someria, the Bactrian Age, when we go to various museums, which we see a small collection, then we choose how we worship, say, the Pharaoh mummies and go to Egypt to see them completely. That's how museums work. The museums with billions of people worldwide must all come to Greece alone to see some specimens of Greek culture. That means civilization diplomacy. To finish and not take any more time, I think it is not possible to hear in the Chamber fears that the Ministry of Culture will not intervene when the Ministry of Culture has the strictest instrument that we all respect, no matter how strict it is, because they are the guardians of the Greek culture, the Central Archaeological Council. They will decide which exhibits from the Benaki Museum, which are in its warehouses, will go or which one can go yet. We won't decide. We are voting here for the very bold reformist and development bill brought by Mrs Lina Mendoni and her partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Loverdos has the floor now from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much. The first point, Madam President, with your permission, is about the Council, today and tomorrow. I would like to stress that what seems to be Turkey's issue is not a primary issue. The main themes of this summit relate to pandemic and have economic content, especially in relation to the reconstruction of Europe, which has been critically affected by the pandemic and the recession that it has caused, the objections of Poland and Hungary to be overcome, the objections raised not to this policy itself, but to issues relating to their own rule of law and the need for measures that the European Union must take in respect of the violation and infringement of the rule of law in these countries. I therefore think, Madam President, that the issue of Turkey, which is so concerned with us here because of the violation of the behaviour of a state - a turbulence for the region, so I think that it has been degraded and the assessments that are heard that the decisions will not be the ones that we are waiting for and which we would like and which are perfectly appropriate to Turkey's violation behaviour are rather accurate in this respect. In relation, now to the draft law, I think our rapporteur, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, has talked about the main positions of our party, PASOK, the Change Movement, which are related to the need to protect and disseminate our cultural heritage and to support contemporary artistic, cultural production. Within these principles we are trying to make proposals. Our amendment goes in that direction. Madam Minister, I have heard your answer to Mr Kegeroglu. We also know very well that the Constitution, Article 73(2), which regulates a specific procedure, and that the matter of the sixth day is not just a matter for the archbishops. But the answer you gave me relates to the more general aspect of the issue, which will be resolved in another way. But you did not say whether you were in agreement with our proposal, which we expect to hear in your main speech. The main issue, now, concerning Mrs Mendoni's current legislative initiative, relates to the possibility for our museums to expose, through museum agreements in other countries, their property, to expose their ownership in other countries, to long-term agreements. In this respect, in addition to the generality of the order and the specific agreement of the Benaki Museum, a historical museum, which we all know about its history and its importance, and the members and members of the democratic party are particularly sensitive to this museum, whose history is linked to the history of the democratic party of the country, the history of the 20th century and the present day. So this valuable cultural tool, this precious institution, the legal person private law, the Benacio Museum, has co-operation, agreement, with the Museum of Greek Culture in Melbourne and the antiquities and other assets it has, which are currently unable to be exposed to Greece and located in boxes, will be exhibited in Melbourne with a long-term agreement. I believe that Mr Papandreou and Mr Constantopoulos, and Mr Kegeroglu, too, have mentioned the positions of our party in this regard. I want to add my own opinion. She's exactly the same as before. But here's my argument. In the first decade of this century, as some time in terms of culture and education, I visited various museums in the country. In Samos it was my first and great surprise to see in the museum warehouses and in boxes a priceless treasure, where you look at the first thing you think about when you don't know it's why there's no museums for all this, for all this treasure. But that's not possible, no matter how much money the country has, no matter how much it's not interested in, at the end of the day, whether a museum is visited or not. Compared to most of the countries of the world that are poor in terms of culture and history, we are very, very rich. But that does not mean that we can house it in museums. And so it is assumed that most of these works that are not exposed today will remain, as George Papandreou said, for centuries in these boxes. Our generations and things go by in this they can't change, they can't easily at least change. Why should we be skeptical, why should we be fearful, why should we think supposedly nationally and not think openly, not think about wanting to facilitate what they once did with theft? One of the rapporteurs said this and I consider it to be behind the needs, and the issue of the subject, and of culture, and of the country. So why should we be afraid to get into agreements again? What's going to happen to us? What is preferable to becoming shareholders of the Greek civilization beyond the world? Aren't we fighters of the world heritage associated with culture? Aren't we fervent supporters of the dissemination of Greek culture at the end of the world? What is wrong with us if, instead of being parts of our treasure in boxes, being exposed, exposed internationally, being exposed to Australia, the United States, everywhere on the planet, and having this spread of Greek culture and sometimes a profit for museums making such agreements? Because I think this is also very important, especially for legal persons under private law, such as Benacio, which is unsure, ladies and gentlemen. We need to be careful about what economic situation these institutions have. Why should they not be strengthened - and I think the amendment gives this possibility - and financially by such agreements? Yes, of course, these agreements cannot be a lion in favour of another side. They can't be refreshing. It cannot be at the expense of Greece or its institutions, obviously. However, this is a matter of negotiation, it is a matter of specific negotiation, and I believe that every Greek Minister or every Greek administration of the Greek Museum really has the national responsibility to make good negotiations and to reach very good agreements. I support this choice. I think it's a pioneering choice. It's a useful choice. It has been used, perhaps without the same institutional base, and other times, perhaps with short-term opportunistic, reports. Yes! But when a country, an institution and an institution enables us to make a report not on a lasting, eternal basis, but on a multi-annual basis, we must say yes. The institutional guarantees said by Vassilis Kegeroglu, which will be provided for in every agreement so that our property is not lost, not destroyed or stolen in the course of the year, I think that they are necessary and I believe that every museum that makes such an agreement will have kept them. Ms. Mendoni, Mr. Bougas made an observation about the terminology used. It's my view, too, but with an asterisk. It is not entirely compatible with the products of our cultural heritage, with our antiquities, with the use of terms of Civil Law, such as ownership and so on. There is a need - I think Mr Buga's reference was made to the term 'using', but I am not sure, I was not listening very well from the computer - to a specific terminology, but the truth is - and here is my asterisk - that our particular terminology is incomprehensible, therefore legally problematic, if there are any disputes, there are disagreements that lead to court proceedings. My colleague is right to speak of a specific terminology, which shows respect for our cultural property, but also with great attention to the performance of these terms in English or in any other language if these terms are rendered incomprehensible and legally problematic. Thank you very much, Mrs Sacorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u186	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Buga, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. I can tell you from the outset that I will also take over the time of my denunciation because a lot has been said which requires answers. They are published, ladies and gentlemen, as you will all have seen in the last few days, inquiries showing that a significant proportion of public opinion expresses reservations or fear of imminent vaccination. These feelings are attempting to take advantage of them for purely voting reasons. Mr Velopoulos, with his speech today, in a way - in my view - dangerously attempted and proclaimed for himself the leadership of the anti-invasive campaign. I don't have time to comment on what he said. But what I would like to say is this: it is time again for the government to cooperate with the political forces - and I am delighted with the reference made by the former President of this House, Mr Voutsis - but also with the citizens, in particular, to build the wall of responsibility and reason towards those who, for political and political self-interest, do not care about public health and human life. For us, human life is an absolute value. Another issue that is topical not today, at this time, is the European Council meeting. Greece and Cyprus are working, as you know, on the decisions of the Eastern Mediterranean Summit. Turkey, although it was given the opportunity to take goodwill steps, from which its desire to resolve legal disputes with its neighbours in dialogue rejected it. Indeed, in a way that shows disrespect for Europe, despite the recent pretext of withdrawing its research vessel from the Greek continent, it clearly states that it will continue not only with regard to our country, but also with regard to the Republic of Cyprus, with the culmination of the visit of Erdogan to Vargosia. It is clear that Turkey will not change its behaviour unless it is forced in that direction. It is now time for Europe to demonstrate that it has the courage to face up to the challenges and to reject extortion, to demonstrate in practice its solidarity with the threatened Member States, to promote the collective interest of the Union in the individual economic interests of some of its members, to ultimately protect its credibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, since the time it takes office, has given priority to the development of public policies for our culture, our material and intangible cultural heritage and contemporary artistic creation. We constantly evaluate the situation and prioritise the needs. We are looking for realistic policies with tangible and measurable results in the quality of life of citizens, in cultural entrepreneurship, in local, regional and national development. Although culture is indeed our great comparative advantage, unfortunately, our country in 2015-2019 has not been able to capitalise on the possibilities offered by its cultural heritage in order to receive the goodwill that must be internationally. Today the unprecedented crisis, due to the pandemic, affects all economic and social activities and the cultural sector as a whole. In addition to taking further restrictive measures, for the recovery as effectively as possible of the second pandemic wave, it forms aspiring conditions. The government and the Minister's intention is to ensure both the continuous production of culture and the association of citizens with culture and to ensure the working conditions through the implementation of horizontal support measures for cultural workers. We have, in fact, made successive enlargements to the circle of beneficiaries of the favourable framework established. The Government's interventions concerning the support measures are not merely intended to make up for the incomes of professionals and workers in part. We provide substantial financial assistance by ensuring a minimum income for decent living. It is - and I would like to point this out - notable to the particular importance attached to the protection and promotion of archaeological sites and monuments, to the use of national and European resources and to the combination of the possibilities of private initiative with the know-how and scientific training of cultural executives. We all felt proud when the new lighting of the Acropolis was revealed and our country was internationally advertised. Also, excavation works, restorations of ancient, Byzantine and modern monuments and support for actions of modern culture are being carried out. It was reorganised - I would remind you - the legal framework for archaocausts and initiatives on Greece's legal support for Greece's positions on the question of transforming the Temple of Agia Sophia into a Muslim mosque. The government bears particular weight in the area of culture. He respects, honors, and supports the people who serve him. Methodically and effectively promote projects and actions that protect, enhance and enhance culture as a public good and a pillar of sustainable development. Previous speakers referred to the draft law under discussion. Let me say that, in the direction of what I have just said, the draft law we are discussing today is also moving. First of all, it concerns the redefinition of the role of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, the modernisation of its structure and its operation, as from the outset - and I would remind you - the Minister who is currently proposing the legislative provisions was committed. It is not limited, of course, only to rename the EDF to a Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, but it creates a completely new structure that aims to link culture to economic development and extroversion. The bill attempts to heal the pathogens that have been agitating the fund for many decades. I would simply remind you that its function is still based on its founding law which runs back in 1977. Its adaptation to the complex and unprecedented data of our time is seen as an undeniable need. The draft law therefore provides the fund with the opportunity to play an important role in the field of culture again. It sets as the essential objective of the LAG the activation of its operational capabilities in support of its strategy to maximise its revenue from cultural resources. This enables multiplier benefits for the local economy and entrepreneurship, as well as strengthening the dynamics and prestige of the cultural product produced. The main aims of the LRA, in the form of a legal person governed by public law, by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, are adequately described in the draft law and I do not want to refer specifically to them in my speech, as the resources that he will have at his disposal to fulfil his purpose. However, I would like to point out that the basic principle in the structure of the GSP is the link between its administrative units and its core powers, which relate to the protection and exploitation of the real estate of the public, the more efficient management of economic resources, the development of production and sales. In addition, the provisions of the bill we are discussing include provisions on the programming contracts between museums and cultural institutions, while addressing important issues for the effective promotion of our cultural heritage abroad. Issues related to the functioning of collective management organisations are resolved and incentives are provided to attract foreign investments in the field of culture. The political leadership in the hard-tested area of culture must remain committed to cultural diplomacy - something that the former President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement and now the Change Movement, Mr Papandreou, rightly mentioned in his speech - to strengthening the cultural tourism of our country, which we so much need. With regard to these, I would like to dwell on the provision of Article 59 of the draft law on which it has been discussed. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the general rule laid down in Law 3028/2002, which formally proclaims that the export of monuments from Greek territory is prohibited, is entirely applicable. So that is true and fully true. However, every country with such rich cultural heritage must provide for exceptions and this is done in accordance with the provisions of Article 59. This article aims to strengthen the extroversion of Greek culture. The museums of our country, as you well know, have millions of mobile monuments stored in their warehouses. These monuments, which will be selected from the museum itself after the approval of the Central Archaeological Council, will be able to be exhibited as a single collection with long-term lending in museums or exhibition sites abroad, maintaining the name of the museum that lends its objects. This practice is followed by all major museums worldwide, such as the Louvre Museum. I would like to mention a recent agreement made by the Louvre Museum and the French Government with Abbu Dhabi's government to lend mobile objects - monuments from the museum for thirty years in Abbu Dhabi. No one there dared to say that cultural heritage was exonerated. It is also self-evident and directly apparent from the draft law that all objects belong to and will continue to belong to the ownership of the Greek State. The monuments of our cultural heritage will be displayed at all the lengths and backs of the world, proclaiming everywhere the universality of Greek culture. This regulation had to be dealt with positively by Opposition. This is a legislative initiative aimed at strengthening the pedagogical role of our cultural heritage and our communication with the cultural heritage of other countries. And we do not have anything particularly important: the object of borrowing can only be a published mobile monument, i.e. a monument whose finding and scientific evaluation has been publicly announced. It is clear that not only are scientific rights protected, but at the same time - and this is something that has escaped from the critic left parties - the research and work of scientists who have tried to come to light and can be objects of the global cultural heritage is being promoted internationally. Also, before leaving this article, I would like to inform you, confirming what I told you before about the Louvre Museum, that since 2002 they have been in Greece in the form of long-term lending from the Pergamo Museum nine architectural members of the "Philippy" of Olympia, necessary for its restoration. In contrast, they were borrowed by Greece to this museum of clay matrices from the Phydia workshop in Olympia for two years, which has been successively renewed. You see, then, that this is a practice not only internationally from the advanced states and major museums, but also in Greece, in our country, this practice is followed. Of course, Minister, I must also express my concern at the reference made to the bill on renewal for twenty-five years. I think it would be better to have successive extensions up to a total of twenty-five years, so that a new extension can be considered each time by the Minister responsible. In this connection, I would also like to join in the proposal made by the rapporteur for the Change Movement, so that you can examine this proposal by the end of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed arrangements we are moving forward, as the Minister has said, in the development of the whole range of opportunities offered to us, to cover all the opportunities that are now being presented for the development of innovative applications and new forms of employment in the cultural sector. This is a bill that promotes things in culture, creates new conditions for the operation of a legal person governed by public law for the benefit of culture, for the benefit of our country at the end of the day. I invite you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u189	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Villard, as you know, you've exhausted your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u191	As a parliamentary representative, I can make one speech, one small speech. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u192	I can't. When you've exceeded your time, you can't do little intervention, you know that. So I'm only giving you the floor for a minute, please, so we can go back to Mr. Buquotar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, I will only speak for a minute. ‘Individual’, ‘vote ratio’. What you said, Mr Colleague, honestly, made me a very big impression. It is, I think, a disgrace to such claims, especially from you who are usually mild and not comparable. You obviously took instructions, but it would be better if you had refined them before. So you'd avoid the obvious stumbling. However, if we have to say what you want to applaud us, like Mr Papandreou, we won't do you a favor. However, I will repeat what I said to the State Secretary, since you probably did not hear them. The President of the Greek Solution spoke with arguments, substantiated what he said and filed for all the documents, so whoever objected, let him substantiate his objection accordingly and not empty words. As far as the vaccine is concerned, it was against its mandatoryity. I mean, he said the self-evident thing. I would remind you that Switzerland, through its government, said it would be inappropriate to enforce the vaccine. Also, I imagine that this statement does not cause any fear. Really, does Mr. McCron's statement make fear? Didn't he just say the same thing? Have you read what the World Health Organisation wrote? It's all right, though. It really doesn't matter! Anyone listening understands exactly what we wanted to say. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u195	Would you like to reply, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u196	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u197	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u198	First I won't need a minute, Madam President. What was said by the Chief of Greek Solution is recorded in the Minutes. Also, seeing his word, one can understand the purpose for which one said what he said today. I would just like to make one point so that there is absolutely no doubt about it. It has been stated to all tons, both by the Prime Minister and by the relevant ministers that there is no way that the vaccine should be mandatory. So why does he go back to the public debate and indeed to the Chamber of Parliament of the Greek Parliament to ask whether it will be compulsory or not? This has been said and cleared up to all tons. Therefore, the second reason why my colleague asked to speak is that it is without any object at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor for seven years now from New Democracy. Since you will hear the warning sound for the end of your speaking time, please very much keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be in my time. In starting with a short position, I would like to say that I will not participate in the debate before us, because, as we do, the House is giving the impression that it will sooner or later begin the prescriptions. So I come to the bill. Madam Minister, Mrs Méndonis, I have asked to speak in your bill because I feel that with the bill under discussion the Ministry of Culture, led by you, in the rebranding of the country, you are also involved in an attempt to reconstruct, reconstruct and reconstruct the country, the image of the country. Because if we want to change the country, we need to change the image of the country, which it does, which is something that your bill is trying in many places. And it is necessary to change the image of the country, because it is much more important what other people think about us than what we believe about ourselves. So I would say that this effort starts with the structural features and the critical institutions of the Ministry. It begins with the reconstitution, renewal and reconstruction of the Agency for the Management of Archaeological Resources, which should be the economic and administrative 'inspired' of our culture along with the other co-responsible services, and which, to date, does not perform its role because, as I have heard you say to the committees, there is a state of chaoticism. With the reconstruction of the Archaeological Resources Management Agency, the Agency is primarily attempting to redeem itself and increase its financial resources. These resources will ultimately be directed at the promotion, restoration, maintenance and promotion of our monuments and cultural sites. Isn't that what we're all asking for? Because today we say yes, Greece has a cultural hegemony in the whole world. As long as we do not do what we need to do and produce cultural products constantly and over time at all the lengths and backs of the world, there is a risk that this cultural hegemony will disappear. That is why we need to run faster, which is what this bill is trying to do. I now come to the question at issue, in what caused such great controversy. But, well, are we talking in the Greek Parliament about whether we are going to export the most powerful product that this country has? And I do not treat it as a commercial product at all, but as a cultural product. Are we talking about exporting the Greek cultural stock that has become human and universal heritage? Are we talking about channeling it to all the lengths and backs of the planet and there are objections? Do we need this pan-human value, the Greek cultural reserve, a small and narrow-hearted approach? Should we not constantly make this stock a property of the entire world? Isn't that what Article 59 of the bill does? As far as the possibility of hosting - because I understand that - of Greece's antiquities in foreign exhibitions will be for twenty, twenty-five or thirty years, that is something that can be discussed. However, as far as the possibility is concerned, in my view, it cannot be discussed, firstly for reasons of global practice and secondly for reasons of the need to export our cultural product. He's not leaving, nobody gets it, he's not stealing it. It will always be the strict one - which is very strict - the Central Archaeological Council on the terms, conditions and conditions under which Greek antiquities will be able to be hosted abroad. This must be made clear. It's our power. I, Minister, would tell you seriously and seriously all the valuable Greek museums to study the possibility of having periodic exhibitions abroad and for reasons of financial self-sufficiency, but also for reasons that serve our cultural diplomacy in the best way. All the remarkable Greek museums are going to send all their exhibits? They will mainly send exhibits which are not exposed at this time. They are stacked in the warehouses and remain there for decades, possibly for centuries. Why not use them? Are museums ever to be built in Greece that will host all our antiquities? The whole of Greece must be turned into a huge museum in order to be able to expose all antiquities. So why limit these possibilities, this powerful advantage which Greece has and in which it is the world's leading power? Why limit it and not use it? That's what we're asking. I want to stand in another arrangement. You know that culture, cultural sites, museums and cultural clubs were affected by pandemic. Visitivity has been nullified. The bill gives you the opportunity to sign programming contracts with the regions, so that these cultural sites can make the restart through programming contracts, which will improve them and give them new opportunities and attractiveness and economic viability. If we want to leave this crisis behind, we need to design the steps that the pandemic has taken us in a better way and become bigger and faster. I come to a third issue which also strengthens the universality of Greek culture, which also strengthens the extroversion of Greek culture. The potential of the bill, tax and financial incentives for the production of audiovisual production in Greece by renowned international companies is the best thing to happen. It is an outward process and the possibilities are huge. Greece is an endless scenery, something we all know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These issues must therefore be addressed in the context of rebranding, reconstructing, renewal of the country's image. We must take advantage of all these possibilities that this place where we were born gives us, this civilization that not only unites the Greeks, but the entire world, all the people where the land is. I would therefore say that these provisions of the Ministry of Digital Policy, which are incorporated into the bill, must be fully exploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u202	I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. Because I believe that in this Parliament, apart from voting or voting against, we should also give some ideas to ministers who always have the legislative initiative, I would say to you, Minister, that the next major project for Greece should be the possibility of a digital virtual visit to the Greek museums of all people from any width and length of the planet. Also, it should be considered how this can then become an incentive for living visits, but with qualitative and valuable productions and, if there are any provisions, to be given to Greek and foreign companies to digitize this wealth, so that it can be accessible to the respective economic exchanges for all the museums in the country and in order to ensure that Greek culture is sustainable and to continue its leading role in humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u204	Thank you. I shall try, Madam President, to be brief, even though the issues raised in this bill are huge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u205	I understand that, Madam President, but after you there is a large list of speakers and everyone must speak. Then we have a roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u206	Madam Minister, last midnight on the Liberal website, which mentions features, "At the meetings of the Committee on Morphics there were even absurd things, such as the fact that by such a provision as the former Article 59, now 48, we will legalise the British Museum" etc. He continues the article: "Actually, if Great Britain ever decides to return to us these monuments and antiquities against our lending of antiquities, what will Greece say? ‘Take some archaeological reports for five years?’. It does not want much of a mind to think that long-term lending will also be applied in this case and that since Greece is struggling for a fair return, it should also be ready in terms of laws." I would like to ask you clearly to tell us what your position is on the journalist's specific point of view is. However, the question of returning the stolen monuments from Britain was also the former Prime Minister Papandreou today, who described the debates of this kind already being held on exchange. If I understood it correctly, the British argument is: "We will give you monuments, but you too will, in exchange, lend us more and equal value over the long term." I understand that, right? This, however, is a recognition of England's argument about the ownership of Greek antiquities. Confess it, however, and you too, Minister, not only have the free and political courage to have Mr Papandreou, confess to the Greek people and do not use the Benaki Museum as a pretext, which we all want to support. The proposal, which has also been made in relation to Article 59, now 48, to replace the term 'loaning' by the term 'user', is equally unnecessarily unnecessarily. In fact, it is worse because, under the ‘user’ contract, one contractor, in this case Greece, called ‘user’, grants the use of certain things to the other Contracting Party without any consideration at all. So either in one way or another with the proposals of the New Democracy, our country is suffering a lot of damage. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stressed how dangerous the effort made by the government is and with this bill to privatise basic social and public goods, in this regard our common cultural heritage. The Minister, despite being Minister for Culture, tends to forget that art goods are not only marketable goods. They are bodies of ideas, institutions of the ancient Greek people, the ancient Greek spirit and culture, the result of which they existed. They primarily have huge educational and educational value that can and can inspire us to this day. It is no coincidence, however, that contemporary artistic and cultural creation, contemporary native artists and creators are, unfortunately, treated nowadays by the Ministry with the same depreciation, so are the people of folklore, who are on the Greek territory with cultural folklore clubs. Such important actors of folk culture and social and national cohesion have not been supported by the Ministry sufficiently so far. The provision of Article 48 for the export of monuments to museums or even similar spaces abroad for a century, such as the original provision, or even for half a century after the legislative improvements, but which came after the fierce reaction of the Anti-Population and social institutions, is numerously and voluntarily unacceptable and must be withdrawn, first of all because museum exhibits, antiquities, monuments, huge historical and archaeological value does not fit in a short view that is primarily seen as having a spare or merchandise value. Secondly, the natural geographical and cultural space that gives birth to monuments and antiquities is the most appropriate place and way to highlight them. Thirdly, the lending of works of art and cultural heritage is already done and can be done extensively on the occasion of specific limited exhibitions. This kind of lending, as we all have to know, is already covered by the 2002 archaeological law. Fourthly, if we really want to strengthen tourism and thus increase the country's GDP, antiquities must remain at the place where they were created and continue to act as a well-spoken cultural attraction. Madam Minister, one final comment on the bill. You have not explained to us so far about museums which either already operate as legal entities governed by public law or those which are to be converted into legal entities governed by public law on the basis of your current announcement, if they are covered by the long-term export of monuments, that is to say, if they are covered by the exception provided for in paragraph 2 of the amendment or not. You are thus creating deliberate ambiguity, which makes us predict that the expatriation of monuments will take place, pursuant to almost all museums for nearly half a century. Ladies and gentlemen, half-century lending is not a loan, it's an assignment, it's a gift, it's a sale. We have tabled with genuine respect for our cultural heritage and with a full consciousness every Member of Parliament's request for a roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, my colleague, for not overcoming your speaking time. Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which is mostly concerned with the reorganisation of the Archaeological Resources Fund, the EFF and the EAP, as we have established to say. The studies studied by the Ministry for drafting the draft law have been at the disposal of the previous government and, in fact, since 2015, since the beginning of the governance process. However, as the previous government has proved, it has not been able to use them. Finally this... It was a moment of complete openness and we must recognise it to colleagues. They continue to say that tourism is our "heavy industry" and it is true, but our real "heavy industry" is culture, our cultural heritage that is closely linked to tourism. We must address the issues relating to culture seriously and responsibly, to highlight our cultural heritage, but also to modern culture, to project them abroad through modern methods, to strengthen them all the time, to attract investment. In this direction we are coming today to modernise the Archaeological Resources Fund, to reorganise it, to upgrade it to an Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources. The EDF shall collect and manage the revenues of all archaeological sites and museums. We understand how important his role is and how urgent the need for reorganisation and modernisation is after so many years of operation. Of course there are reactions. Every time something tries to change, many react. Many, in fact, want to hide behind a problem or create a problem. Maybe most of them react. There is a suspicion in our country of change, and that is true. As the Minister, Mrs Mendoni, has said, we want the EFF with a new person, with a redefinition of his role and with a full modernisation in his functions. And that's what we do today. Why is such an important organization left behind for our country? What was it? Who's to blame, and we haven't gone through all these years? There are deficiencies in his management as well. The structure of services is now anachronistic, and there is a great deal of room for increase in revenue. There is a great gap in our country's regional income, so let me say it, services. Museum sales, for example, are a huge source of revenue, greater than worldwide tickets. We have not exploited them here. Why? I shall mention here as an example the Benaki Museum sales shop, which is one of the best. Refreshments are also another big issue. Why have many people been closed for so many years? The online ticket has already started since 2018 - too late, that is - and today it is more imperative than ever to expand and function fully. Here it contributes - and must contribute - to the Ministry of Digital Governance in its own way. It should be noted, in fact, that, unfortunately, the OPs have not contributed at all to this, and it has been done with the help of individuals. It's too far behind with regard to digital functions. Unfortunately, that's the truth. Let me also say a few words about the procedure, but they show the difference in the attitude of the New Democracy Government. There have been some tensions and dissatisfaction in the committees during the debate. That's fair. That's a democracy. But, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we are listening. We quickly make flexible decisions and correct them. The Minister withdrew what was involved in the Brandenburg Museum, but also in the present article 59 - 48 with the new regulation, if I am not mistaken - brought in an amendment all the necessary legislative improvements. Even for the amendments tabled by SYRIZA, the Minister replied and said that she was viewed from a positive point of view. When did you guys do something like that in the past when you were government? And below, too, we see that. For example, in the part of the bill concerning arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Digital Governance, we are strengthening a legislative initiative by the previous government of SYRIZA. I am referring to the so-called EEMO, the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not come to dismantle everything that has been done so far. We recognise positive initiatives and improve them, strengthen them, and correct what we need to correct. That's what we do today. We are strengthening and improving the existing legislative framework in order to attract production and investment in the country that we so much need, but we do so in terms and under conditions of transparency. We are putting a two-tier and, of course, concrete and clear targets. I ask you: will you vote against these provisions? Will you vote against any provisions that you started? There have been many mistakes - and, I would say, badly optional - in the area of culture and a lot of money has been lost. And the EIF manages hundreds of millions of euros each year, while there are few times that have been targeted. The need for consolidation and modernisation is a demand and has been calling for decades of everyone. That's exactly what we're starting today. We are making the conditions for it to be transformed into a modern and efficient organisation free of past weights, which will operate with absolute transparency and will contribute to the overall effort to promote culture, attract investment for growth and the economy. In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today the House is also called upon to vote on amendments, amendments to specific amendments and with measures to be taken because of COVID -19. This shows that the Government of New Democracy takes swift reflexive measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, I am very sorry that I have heard a colleague from the Vice-President to criticise the fact that a member of the Board of Directors of the LAG will be present at the General Assembly of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. And I ask: is the Left Member coming and questioning the elected Members? Tell us, after all, if they want a trade union controlled by them. Is that their problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u209	Please, you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u210	Because the federation of the Ministry of Culture is not controlled by SYRIZA and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u212	... they have no reason to vote and who will not vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Comrade, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u214	These unacceptable things have no place in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Comrade, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Comrade, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u218	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u219	I've been talking to you all this time. Why don't you stop listening to what I want to say? Why do you care so much about the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u220	Madam President, now I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u221	I told you your time is over. You went through him a lot and you didn't respect anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, now I hear you and thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u223	I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u224	Madam President, now I hear you and thank you very much for your time and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You just need to know that you are cutting time from your colleagues. Now Mr. SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes. Mr Colleague, please, I want you to listen to the time when the warning bell and the bell of your time are ringing. There will also be a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u226	I hope I hear it. If I don't hear it, you'll cut me off, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u227	I'll let you know. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much. You see it's too difficult to communicate. It is very difficult to be in our office, at our home, and we need to talk in plenary. That is why we had this unfortunate episode yesterday - the unfortunate incident - with the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, who took the floor away from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u229	I would ask you very much, Mr Colleague, not to waste your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u230	No, I have to say I haven't had time, because we were talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u231	Mr Colleague, listen to me, please very much. Since your time is short and because all this has been heard before yesterday in committee, and so on, do not waste your time because it is not enough, so that you can put yourself in the bill, which is very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u232	Because it was about me, I didn't have time to say a word! Anyway, let's go down. Madam Minister, we have really been desperate to try and explain the situation of the people of culture and to fall into a wall. You don't care. We are telling you that what you advertise about people of culture is very few. You have such conditions that concern very few, take very little and take too long or never come to people. Do you think we're feeling well to tell our fellow scientists that they're being thrown away, that they're eating rations? Is that a nice thing? Is it nice for me to tell my fellow actors that I'm bringing them bags to the house to eat? That is why SYRIZA has proposed four amendments. They are awaited by the people to whom they are concerned, and we have waited for you to accept them. You didn't. You did not say 'no' of course, but you referred them to the bells. We asked - because you know they closed music scenes, closed bars, closed everything, there are no rights to musicians - to strengthen the Intellectual Property Organisation to transfer some money to the Collective Management Organisations to take these people. You did not say 'no' to us, of course, but you referred it to the future. You say it's difficult, insecure to finance. OPEI needs legal treatment. For VAT 6% again, you did not say 'no', but you will consult the Ministry of Finance. For the measures concerning the quota for the Greek repertoire on radio you did not say 'no'. You said you needed... (bad connection). Now it's the problem, Minister. Now the people of culture have the problem, and we need to do something. With regard to the EMEA, which was heard, yes, SYRIZA did, it is a success. What's that? It's clear. It is a tool that attracts foreign production, which costs: they buy, they stay, they pay, they pay for work. Thousands of workers have found jobs in the productions already done by the EMEA. What are you doing now? You allow half the costs to go abroad. That is, not to stay here the money, not to make the purchases here, not to get technicians from Greece, to pay them abroad and to return the cash rebate, tax refund, that is to say, to come here for shooting. To return money spent abroad, state money, from the Treasury. You know very well that the return money comes from the Public Investment Programme. You put a higher figure at 12 million. It doesn't change anything. They're going out again. We know from the market that in 2021 these great productions come you say you will bring. We know. These have been preparing for years. They've been prepared since SYRIZA did the EMCDDA. These productions are coming. You'll say you did it. No, no, no, no, This is abrupt to SYRIZA's work. You know that 12 million is for an episode of a large series of NETFLIX, and it is no coincidence that all concerned - not to repeat, unions, associations, workers - are against what you bring for legitimisation. Do you not hear the whole world of audiovisual media, the work of these people? Don't you think where the unemployed are going to stay again, stay at 50% outside, and others will be paid, English, Puerto Ricans, or I don't know who else? You have finally brought in a number of amendments at the last minute. You have brought an amendment which, in fact, predestinates the closure of some museums. It's clear, it's very clear. It is clear from this legislation that you are setting the foundations to close many of the smaller museums in the country under the Ministry of Culture in the future, not because they will be the same - the Greek extroversion - but because they will not have the means, especially in remote areas. These museums are very important there, for local society, for local culture. This last-minute legislation is unacceptable. Why? What are you afraid of? We didn't have time to consult. We didn't have time to get up to speed. We didn't have time to discuss antiquities. The cultural interest for Greece worldwide is intense, lasting and has a depth of time. Greece is not a state without history, so we can go and meet them outside. The first tourers, from the Ottoman period, have come here for antiquities. Then the tourists came. Museums around the world are full of stolen antiquities. Where's Samothrace's Victory? Where are the Parthenon's marbles? Where is the whole Ephesus? There are ways of highlighting the Greek culture, without the need to borrow this wealth for a very long time. Madam Minister, please tell me - because you are expressing the government - if you heard that a government or a Minister, on the matter of lending cultural wealth, antiquities, etc. foreigner, that it started from ten years, it went to a hundred, to one game and took it down to half a century, what about this government, this Minister of Culture? Can we talk about the Meat Museum? I told you at the first moment, because I am a Member of the Eastern Attica, the great reactions that existed. You know, you've taken two or three letters from Mayor Yassimakis. Yesterday, the Municipality of Oropus issued a communication stressing that they are unwanted in the region by those voting for this bill. The mayor has sent you letters. He requested the adjournment of the debate in the committee responsible and therefore in plenary on the programme contract between the Zygomalas Museum and the Museum of Modern Greek Culture. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] His proposal was to consult with the local society and the relevant bodies to find the best solution for the Zygomalas Museum. I have in my hands, Minister, announcements from the agencies of the court, such as the Parents and Penitentiaries Associations, the Forced Co-operative, the Association of Aylonites "The Salesi"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u233	Mr Colleague, you must slowly close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u234	I shall conclude, Madam President. The museum must stay at its place. Minister, this is a bill with things that are unacceptable. I share society, the institutions, in one by one the bills disagree, as with what you have brought. You have a hundred and fifty-eight MPs in New Democracy. You'll vote for it. One hundred and fifty eight MPs the Greek people gave you to do things positively. But what you are bringing is in the opposite direction to what you need and we must do for the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u236	Of course, I also call on the New Democracy Members to vote against at least the issue of antiquities abroad. You guys are...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u238	...and so much in your soul are antiquities...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u243	You're welcome, Mr. Himara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u244	I think it's my turn. I was before Mr. Darkness, as I see on the list. My turn was before Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u245	You'll allow me to say I don't have you here on the list. There's Mr. Lippes, who has said he wants to keep his mouth shut, and then I have Mr. Skouliako and Mr. Bubba. I don't know if there's been a mistake. If you have a little patience, they'll let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u246	I have no problem, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u247	You're just next, in the second circle. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u248	I'm sorry, I had the initial directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u249	Good. So it's solved. It's Mr. Boobas, and then right after that, you're the first of the second cycle. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u250	...(Not heard because of a bad connection).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Booba, can you hear us? Mr. Booba, we're not listening to anything. I suggest that Mr. Heimaras speak, and once you fix the sound, we go straight to you. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my present position on the bill, I would like to tell you two facts, to which I was a witness during my visit to two archaeological sites with my family. The first was in the Minoan Palace of Malia, where in a group of tourists, due to the heat, a tourist felt indisposed and needed water. It was impossible to find a bottle of water because the candle was closed because the contract had not been renewed. The second incident concerns the archaeological site of Gortina, where there is the room with the great inscription bearing the code of laws, the oldest laws of Greece. But if a visitor wants to buy the booklet with the legislation, he doesn't find it in the public sales shop. When he goes to Phaistos, he can find it at the private shop of the cafeteria opposite the archaeological site, but not at the public seller of Gortyna or Phaistos. I keep wondering. Is it acceptable for the Greek museums to come at 86% exclusively from tickets, while at the same time in Great Britain, the corresponding figure is only 26%? Is it acceptable that important world-wide and radiation spaces, such as Ancient Olympia, do not have in operation a refreshment or a restaurant? It is incomprehensible that the shops of the archaeological sites will have few saleable items, some of which, such as the archaeological sites, are expensive, difficult to transport and therefore indifferent to the average visitor of our museums and archaeological sites. Is it right that there should be no driver for Greece's largest state museum, the National Archaeological Museum? It is unacceptable that we do not have the museum shops and refreshments and archaeological sites for names of origin and that we do not promote alternative forms of tourism, such as gastrimarg. I wonder, wouldn't olive oil or edible olives from the land of the Hotlands become sloppy? Should olive oil produced from olive trees that grow in dozens of archaeological sites in our country? We do not find it absolutely necessary for the refreshments to function in every archaeological site and monument to become a meeting point - why not - and our youth? I have to cuff you the example of the refreshment in Lamia Castle, my special homeland. I have also raised this question with regard to me. Open refreshment would mean more revenue for the museum as well. But it would also mean movement, life and dissemination of our cultural stock. Shouldn't we use the real estate of the Ministry of Culture? Do you know that there are buildings of younger years of high architecture and aesthetics with wonderful views, which remain unexploited in Olympia, Hydra, in many areas? Can we accept that the ITD does not have electronic sales? That the user cannot purchase online by using a credit or debit card any product he wants? Does it make any sense for those products that are dependent on our cultural heritage not to be sold worldwide? The New York Mum sells souvenirs to bookshops all over the world. Why not us? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation we have received. And this government knows how to take initiatives, find and promote the best solutions. So all these reasonable questions are trying, in my opinion, to respond positively to the draft law under discussion. Article 4 provides a solution for the rental of refreshments in low-opportunity spaces and museums and for the first time seeks to link cultural heritage with actions to promote gastronomy and local products. I would suggest, Madam President, that these should be added to the fact that they can be sold at the stylish spots of the MSF sales by indicating even the producer and the way of cultivation. Article 5 provides the possibility of setting up a legal person governed by private law for the use of the real estate of the LAG, providing the necessary flexibility in decision-making and the implementation of actions. We must at last lease criteria for organising conferences and events. To be able to grant areas for apicultures. The following articles illustrate the effort to restore the administrative order of the new organisation. It is not possible to implement policies when the Chairperson and the Governing Council are almost every six months, as was the case in the past. Extremely important is Article 14, which describes in detail the revenues that the PSC may potentially accumulate. For the first time, cases such as educational programs and partnerships are mentioned, demonstrating the extrovert character of the bill. With regard to the agency's staff, we would propose adding to the Presidential Decree which will then be adopted new specialities, such as communists, advertisers, philosophers, cultural information and technology. The Presidential Decree can also adopt proposals from the Association of Officials of the EIT, i.e. provide for more organic positions and positions in mobility between services. I note that as a staffing tool for the ADP with high-level staff it could be the National School of Public Administration. Furthermore, to strengthen the legal support section with staff in order to claim the agency's revenue, by enforcing our entire legal arsenal. Finally, we consider it necessary to set up a Department of Electronic Trade Office. This should already exist and it is our great deficit and unforgivable uncertainty. Furthermore, I fully agree with the provisions of Article 59 which brings about changes in the certification of our museums, public and private, as well as in facilitating long-term lending of antiquities and monuments. I do not understand the fear with which we are dealing with a number of issues which in other countries do not cause similar reactions. After all, I have been informed that antidotes have been borrowed in the recent past for a long time in the antidote trial for the return to Greece of antiquities. I also consider reasonable antiquities found in the warehouses of the Greek museums and will not be exposed, the possibility of long-term lending to museum organisations abroad. Do not forget - it was heard before - that Louvre has created an annex in Lance, a former miners' city in northern France and also in Abbu Dhabi. I believe that the Minister's amendment, with the reduction in lending time, should satisfy us all. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another reform step by the Government of New Democracy. It is time after the expiry of forty-three years another government again of the New Democracy to change the nature, responsibilities, the staffing of the Archaeological Resources Fund and to transform it into a flexible, modern, adapted organization of the 20th century. I really want to congratulate the Minister of Culture, Mr Mendoni, on the excellent piece of legislation. We will be present and will support with all our forces the changes that our legislative initiative brings. That is why I call on all the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Boumbas from the Greek Solution has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u254	Thank you. Put the keyboard on, Madam President, so I can see the time. We are talking about culture, ladies and gentlemen. Here comes what French philosopher Duran once said, that culture is the prevalence of law against power, the persuasiveness of violence, the dialogue towards monologue and the spirit of matter. That spirit must be retained today. I see, of course, that this effort of the Ministry of Culture is superficial. What do I mean? Against the establishment plan in the administrative model of the new Archaeological Resources Management Agency, there is a separation of administration between the accounting side and the cultural side. It is good to try, but if we look at some points, such as how to make expropriations or how to manage the property of the Archaeological Fund, there is a need for more explanation for the composition now, for how these positions will be paid, administratively and financially, how much this model costs to meet the obligations and for culture to have money. Because another great philosopher said that culture and property were going together. There are, therefore, gaps up there, such as Article 33, which, while a judicial office is being held, with the assent of the President, can be legally granted to private lawyers. That's why? In the middle of a day? It's a photographic device. Once there is a legal department within the organisation, why would the legal framework go to private individuals? What's he doing? There's too much more. The Minister rightly said that culture is not just the archaeologists. Archaeologists, however, are the nucleus. The rest of the satellites will work. The scientific text cannot therefore be binding on the recruitment of the new Archaeological Resources Management Agency. This text means that there will be experience of an archaeologist in terms of scientific articles, but it creates a photographic provision for which archaeologists will be recruited. The Ventalia must be opened. Archaeologists can promote new archaeological findings, disseminate them. It's their science. It's the caretaker. We have to give them these wings. I've said that for the faithful copies we can put on security licenses. Because if we have faithful copies, they have to be paid in their quality. Besides, the word says so. All we have to do is get a security license. We can open a turnover in our country, provided there is proper control over a limited number, indelible seals, etc. In any case, it's inspected if we want the faithful copies. Now there is a great deal we can discuss in the production of audiovisual media and I did not get an answer from the operators or rather said 'we can't control it. There'll be money under the table. I have said that, there are evil paths in the production of audiovisual media, because there may be footage of a few seconds for a particular company, of course there should be the eligible costs, but I was told by the institutions themselves at the meeting that they could not control it, so there might also be black money in these productions. And who tells me that a company will not come tomorrow, as this possibility is given to Article 70, non-profit-making, namely NGOs? We open the door to every NGO to be co-productiond or produced by a documentary or whatever, and I don't know what money it will be managed, but neither can we get through the NGO. You know, I'm thinking about what a Colombian, Dabila, said, when the culture sun fall down and the dwarfs make big shadows. And these shadows, of course, are a two-tier knife of how to interpret them. There are the small cultures that have given humanity their lights, but there are also the small cultures that want to overshadow something else. So he wants attention. Or what he said in Article 69 - if I am not mistaken - is talking about a number of countries that will cooperate with tax. What's that supposed to mean, "to cooperate with tax"? You're putting in a specific tax framework. There are too many issues that we should see more generally around culture. There is a lot of discussion in the fight against archaocapilia. Good policeman, link, or port officer, but special service needs to be set up here. We have said so as a Greek Solution, a Tourist Police, to be a branch possibly so that it can function in the fight against archaocapilia. I said that to the committee. For all these people who have some collections in their homes from their grandfather, their grandparent, hereditary character, they are afraid to speak that while they want them to be given, because as the wise people say, if you get involved with archaeology and forestry you are not getting away with. I mean, there are also people who inherited these. It could be a collection. They may even be able, because that is where you say 'the protection of the informant'. Okay, so information can be provided. So let's also motivate Greeks who own them - because they found them, I'm not saying that they were stolen - from grandparents and grandparents, from generations, from these findings. And now I'm going to open a lot of talk about copyright as the New Democracy had to say to SYRIZA and now the Greek Solution to SYRIZA, but it takes a lot of talk. I was challenged by Mr. Vernardakis. What about organisations for collective management of copyright? Who controls them, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the New Democracy? We are opening a great deal of sin for copyright, as is the case with GDPI, which managed the money, as the great body that makes financial control. Let us see what is happening on the subject of GDPI, because we must say more generally to the people of the artistic world that their money, which they gave to users and creators, has not been controlled by a supervisory control mechanism. So these people are becoming disgusting now artists and we're not telling them the truth. The Greek Solution will provide you with documents, documentaries and information on the management of copyright organisations and, if necessary, a timely question, to inform the artistic world of the country where their money is going. Because creators and users do not have the money they deserve, because there was no supervisory mechanism for what is a global originality, to support copyright too. If I take it in more depth, it has been controlled by a large economic colossus that we are still waiting to tell us where the money has gone which is not a small one. Madam President, do I have time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u255	I can hear you, Mr. Colleague, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u256	It is a big issue, because there is a management in particular from GNI to 50 to 60 million a year. That money is a lot. That is why - because our President has said so - the many management authorities and the money spent, which is several million, should, please, have supervisory control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Comrade, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u258	I'm closing up with this. As far as the transfer, you say, is concerned, to get an opinion from special Art Conservatives, to see that in the transfer there is damage to the archaeological monuments. It's time to borrow and be angry, as in the law of usage and they'll grow generations, and they'll never see them, but who ensures that these, because they'll be special exhibition spaces there, they'll be returned and they won't always find terminology, to tell the catapult, and they won't turn us back. They have not been given for so many years or have not left their natural place our archaeological findings. Not to say what Dark said, unfortunately the world's largest museums only have spoil! Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Before giving the floor to Mrs Brysidou from New Democracy, I will give the floor to the Minister for two minutes because she wants to make some references to amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u260	I'm going to announce some legal, Madam President. The words ‘the Ministry of Culture and Sport and Sport’ shall be deleted in the first subparagraph and the words ‘the competent authorities’ shall be inserted after ‘the production’ after the word ‘for profit’, after the word ‘copies’. In case (b) of Article 3 after the word ‘production’, the words ‘for profit’ shall be inserted after the word ‘copies’. In Article 4(3) of the draft law, the words ‘According to the same procedure’ shall be deleted from the end of the first subparagraph and put at the end of the second subparagraph. In Article 8(3) of the draft law, the words ‘the Legal Service’ are replaced by ‘the Legal Support Department’. In Article 10 of the draft law after paragraph 2, paragraph 3 is added: ‘The Board of Directors shall be responsible for any matter relating to the fulfilment of the objectives of the GPSD and shall monitor the functioning of the GPSD services’. In the case of (b)(1) of Article 14, the word ‘surprises’ and the diagnosing ‘or’ shall be deleted. In the case of (g) paragraph 1 of Article 16, the party shall be deleted after the initial ‘OECD’ and the words ‘and services’ shall be inserted. in the first subparagraph of Article 51(2), the words ‘the competent institution of the Ministry’ shall be replaced by ‘Ministry’; In Article 52, after the word 'application', the words 'Article 4' shall be inserted. In paragraph 1 of Article 55, a party shall be put after the word transport and the word ‘packaging’ shall be added to the contents, in the title of Article 15A of Article 55 and in paragraph 1 of Article 55 thereof. In addition - Amendment No 650/8-12-2020, number 59 is replaced by number 48. In the addition - Amendment No 650/8-12-2020 to Article 48(3) and the correction of the legislative text n.13, the word 'exhibits' is replaced by the word 'collectives'. In the addition - Amendment No 650/8-12-2020 to the internal paragraph of Article 48, the words 'to the Ministry' shall be replaced by 'to the competent department of the Ministry'. In addition - Amendment No 650/8-12-2020 in case of (b) paragraph 13 of Article 48, the words and the party 'the objects may also be monuments' are deleted. In the addition - Amendment No 650/8-12-2020 in the case of paragraph 13 of Article 48 after the words 'to be exposed to', the word'museums' and party shall be inserted and the word'museums' shall be replaced by 'exposures'. In the addition - Amendment No 650/8-12-2020 in the second subparagraph of paragraph (b) of Article 48, the words ‘renew once’ shall be deleted and the words ‘renew every five years and up to twenty-five years’ shall be inserted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, too, Minister. Mrs Bryzidou from New Democracy has the floor and Mrs Bazaa is prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is the country with glorious history and brilliant culture, but a culture that we must use and promote. Because through the emergence of Greek culture, the recognition and value of our country is strengthened and its position in the debates on major issues worldwide, our national issues, migration and Turkish provocativeness is being strengthened. The promotion of our culture and management is now through the legal person governed by public law, which today manages the money collected from tickets to archaeological sites and museums, from the fees for photographing various companies and other activities. However, according to this draft law, the foundations for significant changes that are urgently needed are laid, because today things have changed and we need to be modernised. On the other hand, we have to deal with the difficult conditions of the pandemic, which have deprived resources from our museums, have deprived resources from the fund that manages the archaeological sites and we must quickly prepare those tools, with which, after the pandemic, we will quickly start re-starting, to fill the gaps of the past, and we will be able to support the archaeological sites, these ornaments and this treasure of our society. The legal person is changing name and this means that some changes will be made in order to increase visitability, that is to say we have more visitors, better provision of services, so that we have more revenue, but also have another quality and another perspective. Through this project, in addition to the efforts made towards upgrading all these services, a reference has also been made to the establishment of a legal person of private law, which relates to the Branas olive mill, established in 1887 by the grandfather of our national poet Odysseas Elyptis. From a non-profit-making company it was rebuilt in its building infrastructure and the whole operation, which portrays and portrays us and highlights the course of generation work on the industrial oil industry. This example gives me the opportunity to tell the Minister that the area of Kozani for more than half a century has a tradition in lignite extraction and we consider that there is much material to be a lignite industrial museum. There many students and visitors will be able to learn things they do not know, but at the same time they will be able for our region to be a very important resource within the period of transition from current lignite and energy production to another form. The present draft law also refers to programming contracts which can be concluded between museums and cultural associations, as well as regions. I think that there is legacy in both the region and in the museums of the counties that are far from the centre, and we all need to make use of this wealth, and in order for there to be movement between the regions, but also for our tradition and heritage to be known to our children, but also to the children of all of Greece. It is therefore important that this step be taken. I can hear criticism from colleagues who only see what is in their neighborhood and who may break some balance. But that's not the way it is. We all need such actions as they are - I told you - and my county, which needs to be supported by the Folklore Museum and the Archaeological Museum. We have important findings found in the churches and monasteries. All of this, therefore, needs to be possible in order to ensure that funding from the region can find these resources and give us a start, so that we too can make use of this wealth of our region. In conclusion, I should like to make two points which have been raised by other colleagues. One is for the exhibits that will go abroad. And I would like to say that our country has been in a difficult position in recent years and economically and now with pandemic, things have been as difficult. Our great wealth and the weapon with which we can dominate the world is our culture. It is not always easy to be known through visits to our museums. It's a good chance to get out. Extroversion is necessary in order to be able to show who we are, what possibilities we have, to gain the appreciation of the people of other countries, and through this support, to be able to claim and achieve the position we are entitled to. I also see as a positive step the investment opportunities given to foreign producers, who will be able to take a form of a subsidy for audiovisual material, which they will produce. Surely, our artists and our own producers are the first concern. We all care and we want this sector to go well, and it should be particularly supported by the state. There's a need for extroversion. There is no other solution unless we attract investment and if we do not show our culture, our natural beauty in any form of production. So we will not only show the work produced, we will show our entire country, which will be advertised and beautiful. Through our tourism and through the attraction of visitors to our culture we can overcome the crisis, we can take steps and we can hope that soon we will be the European state that can compete with the rest and not the ones that follow, the ones who ask, those who wait and those who are at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mrs Vaguea has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Madam President. The government with the ruthless Prime Minister has a stunning combination of ruthless and wicked in the bills he brings to the House. They are bills that pretentiously modernize - after all, the once great modernist, Mr. Simitis, has given us a strong supporter of Mr. Mitsotakis - instead of really modernising things that they needed, they are used as Trojan horses, to pass photographic provisions, services of days, redemptions of old cheques, settlements of debts to those who brought you to power. And all this in the middle of a pandemic, with the country paying heavy burdens on the government, with my special homeland Larissa and her hospitals sighing every day under the weight and pressure of the disease, mourning dead fellow humans and friends every day. That is why I want to express my anger and regret about what is happening in my city and to express my condolences to the families who have lost people from negligence, because there were not enough beds in ITH to be nursed. As far as the bill is concerned, as I said, it is a fund, a fund, a FTL, which needed solutions in its problem areas. However, a bill, as I said before, was tabled, which is a Trojan horse, to pass the provisions of scandalous and suspicious. I'm going to stand on a few points. Point one: the online ticket. Why don't you be bold enough that SYRIZA did it after all those years when you were governments? Why didn't you make the online ticket, resulting in thousands of millions, millions of money every year from receipts? This online ticket is very important and we owe it to the former Deputy Minister of Culture of SYRIZA, Mr. Kostas Army with his great effort. Point 2, Article 4(3), concerning the use of historical sites and monuments for organising events within and in the environment. It takes too much attention, so that we do not see any kics ceremonies and wedding receptions, birthdays and baptisms even perhaps in the ancient theaters, for example, at the ancient theatre of Larissa, before we can even see in it the performances of ancient drama. You know, superintendents are in custody. And that is what someone tells you who is not opposed to the proper exploitation for the cultural purposes of monuments. Besides, I strongly advocate that this unique monument that exists in my town, the first ancient theatre of Larissa, can be a pole of tourists and contribute decisively to the stimulation of the local economy. But this is very carefully. Article 69. Very soon I will say that the area of artists owes too much to the creation of EMS by the government of SYRIZA. Say that, too. You say 'from a previous government'. It was the government of SYRIZA that did this law and Mr. Leuteris Kretsos personally owes much to this law, because they found work because of the producers who became too many actors and other people of our industry, technicians and so on. These rights that people have in our work in this organization, the EMS, must not be undermined in any way. I have left lastly the famous article 59 which, I do not know, with the constant amendments now we are dizzy, we do not know exactly what it says, how many years it says. Another says five, ten, twenty, another suggests five, fifteen, twenty, thirty. We don't understand. In any case, if it is proposed in proportion, twenty-five plus twenty-five, fifty years, this is a scary thing. In other words, I wonder how the New Democracy Members are desperately trying to find arguments. What are you talking about? What is this so that the ancients don't stay in the boxes? Now they found this candy today, that, you know, museum basements are full of ancient ones in the boxes! And who told you they'd only leave abroad? Who can assure that? Why, under pretext for the branch of the Benaki Museum in Melbourne, do you want to pass this law? Let's just do something for the Benaki Museum. No one's opposite, we said it a hundred times. In what way do we have to say it now? The Change Movement came together today, they brought the former president, Mr. Papandreou, to support. We know he's cut off for the Benaki Museum. And we have no objection to the Benaki Museum. But don't try to get through this. Mr Papandreou clearly said that the subject of the Parthenon sculptures is behind it. He has been, he says, in a debate, when he was Minister, in England where he was discussed such a thing could happen - I would say the expression that our people are saying, let me not say it now - a transaction in any case, and our sculptures should come as if we were borrowed by the Museum of England in exchange for others that we would give them for fifty years. Ours! What we've been taken to give it to us in loan and give them a corresponding value. So what? At the last meeting, Mrs Pipilis said, "We will not give the Eniot of Delphi!" Why don't we give him, according to that law? It's equivalent to the Parthenon sculptures. Is that what the English Museum will ask for? What you're saying is they're in the museum basements and they're not exposed? So don't use it as a pretext or a homosexual. That's immoral. We all love the family, and we've proved it. We've gone to tours, and we've played in unbelievable conditions. I arrived to Sweden, with a private car, playing "Angela Papazoglou", without any support from the Ministry of Culture nine years ago. And I played for the expatriates this wonderful monologue. So don't talk to us about the Ghost. You don't care more about the Homosexual. You're using it as a family, whenever you like, for fake patriotic reasons. If we had...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u265	Your Honor, you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u266	Just a minute, Madam President. I shall refer to the subject - I do not know if you remember - which was then the 'Drome', the statue of Varotsos, which was then proposed to be exchanged with a statue of Alexander in Skopje Square and to come to Athens and go to Athens. They got up to eat us then. I have here statements from the people of New Democracy. What to see first! I will then testify, when I can, I don't know how this is happening now, for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u268	Just a minute, Madam President, and I'm closing with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u269	Please, hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u270	Wait a minute. Okay, we've been waiting since morning, you've been having technical problems, we're not listening, we're not talking. From nine o'clock we're here. Well, wait a minute. Remember what now? Mr Kumucako: 'Mrs Zorba, do not even think about it'. Statement by Mr Kumucaku. Mrs Spyraki's statement: 'This exchange is beyond any imagination'. Every fantasy was over it then. Now it seems to us too national and moral and very nice what is going to happen. And finally, I will conclude with a post by Mayor of Athens now, Mr. Bakoyannis, on the subject of the sculpture of Varotsos: "The symbols of the capital" - the symbols of the country will say now - "they are not offered for the public relations of any minister or government. Respect the country and its culture." They are your words, yours, Mr. Bakoyannis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, my colleague. I just want to say that if you wait from the morning at nine o'clock, it's not the Bureau's fault. That's the way it is. You know that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives. The ministers have intervened, so there is always a delay, and of course there is always a delay because too many colleagues are going beyond their time, so you understand that it is also a matter for colleagues. Now Mr Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Greece because of its long and rich history is one of the countries...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u273	My colleague, a little louder and a little closer to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u274	The cultural monuments in each city, as well as the many special architectural buildings that accompanied each page of history, were and are characteristic images of the country and are recognized internationally as achievements of special cultural and artistic value, which millions of citizens visit each year. In a country that has been through such a serious economic crisis and is plagued by the disastrous consequences of the pandemic, it is urgent to explore and make the most of the opportunities that our rich cultural heritage can offer us at economic level. With the present bill, therefore, it seeks to increase the resources from the visitability of archaeological sites, monuments and museums, from the provision of services, from the use of real estate, from the exploitation of publications of literature and digitals, and from the sale of cultural objects and objects. In particular, according to this draft law, the legal person governed by public law under the name of the Athens Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund is renamed to the Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, the IDPD, and is reorganised in order to ensure the effective, transparent and developmental management of the country's cultural resources. More specifically, this provision aims to address the issue of the ineffective organisation and operation of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, to redefine and update its aims and to modernise its structure, organisation and function. This is because its aims and ways of organising and operating are governed by an outdated institutional framework, which is a brake on its activities in the modern legal, economic and social environment. It should be noted that the rename of the entity is of a symbolic and substantial nature. It does not mean the abolition of the Archaeological Resources Fund and its replacement by a new body, but rather its transition to a new era of operation, with a new name that is more specific to its new development activities. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Article 3 provides for the exclusive competence of the GPSD for the creation of extractive and accurate copies and describes in detail the procedure for producing accurate copies of movable monuments from the GSP, as well as the authorisation procedure for the production of simple copies. It is worth mentioning that Article 4, according to which the LAG will make use of the property and refreshments owned or managed by it or by the Ministry of Culture and Sport and defines the ways and means of implementing the programme. To this end, the Board of Directors of the GDP shall draw up plans for the use of real estate and refreshments as a whole or as a whole, as well as for the exploitation of archaeological sites, historical sites and monuments, approved by a decision of the Minister for Culture and Sport, after consultation of the relevant Central Council. In addition, the plan contains provisions on the programme contracts between museums and cultural institutions. In particular, a programme contract between the Zygomalas Museum and the Museum of Modern Greek Culture is envisaged. There is also provision for the possibility of concluding programming contracts between cultural actors and regions, which have the appropriate financial instruments and the know-how required to be able to finance such projects. Furthermore, the new bill seeks to facilitate the long-term enrichment of the permanent exhibitions abroad, in order to create strong cultural and educational centres that will strengthen the links between the Union and Greece and communicate its culture to all citizens in the other country. The amendments to existing provisions of L.4487 of 2017 are also important in order to enhance the possibilities for investment incentives to foreign audiovisual production companies. The relevant technical issues are also regulated in order to facilitate further the attraction of investment in this area. To sum up, I would like to emphasise the importance of this bill, given that it makes use of our cultural heritage, so that it also contributes to the economic development of the country, by creating an income and employment, namely prosperity and economic resources for the preservation and protection of cultural capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u275	And we thank Mr Pascalides and the economy of time. We move to the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Georgios Kamin. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about culture and, as has been said almost all of Parliament's wings, culture for the country is an investment with huge impact and unique importance. We are used to saying that culture and tourism are Greece's heavy industry. But this in today's digital age, which is linked to the rapid developments in artificial intelligence and robotics, sounds a little obsolete. Nevertheless, especially for culture, we can also say today what they wanted with the heavy industry to say in the past. I mean, culture produces wealth, first spiritual, after widening people's spiritual horizons, it upgrades and multiplys their skills. Secondly, it also produces economic wealth, because it brings us to constant contact and interaction with other people, anywhere on the planet, because in the end cultural codes of communication are basically common. The agency, which is created by the bill, is absolutely essential to modernise the management of our cultural heritage, to modernise it from the same time, from the previous legal framework that has been in place for forty years, but also to modernise it which is a constant request for the people of culture, from whatever political or ideological point of view, and whether or not we look at it or whatever it comes from, in order to improve the infrastructures of our archaeological sites, to increase their accessibility and visitability, to make them an estate of many more people and to increase the resources available to our culture and to be able to reinvest them in new innovative actions that can enrich the cultural image of the country. The example of dozens of refreshments that do not operate in archaeological sites is, I think, indicative and consequently disappointing, that the country cannot even achieve what is self-evident. We must, however, serve this body properly, with a sufficient capacity, with merit, with clear procedures and defined responsibilities. Allow me a small parentheses, as on the issues of culture, as it makes sense, I have dealt thoroughly with my term of office as Mayor of Athenians. Culture is driven by the extroversion, by the interaction, as has been said, of the exchange. It does not mean completely self-sufficient and certainly not in today's era. As Mayor of Athens, therefore, I wanted to do just this logic by creating in 2016 the Culture Network for Athens, the "Athens Culture Net", a network that brings under the same cover all cultural institutions and organizations in our city, museums, institutions, public and private higher education institutions. If anyone does the trouble and enters his website "Athens Culture Net", he will see the whole ecosystem of the Greek culture of the city there. For example, I could mention the National Theatre, all major museums, Benaki, the Acropolis Museum, the Byzantine Museum, the Cycladic Art, the Panteion University, the High School of Fine Arts, as well as all major charities in the city. We are talking about a total of over forty agencies. So, as a former mayor, I must also thank the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which had then made us the founding donation. These bodies have been co-operating and networking for four years in Athens, with the common assumption that different contemporary cultures, local and international, meet and co-formulate, that culture is a building element of a modern society and city. They exchange ideas, create joint cultural programmes, seek resources and network with other European and global cultural networks. We sought cooperation with other cities and other cultural institutions abroad to make Athens a destination for contemporary culture beyond its other undeniable advantages. So we managed to bring to Athens one of the most important exhibitions of contemporary art worldwide, Documenta. We did so because we believe in what I said above, that it is not today an enclosed culture. Here, then, is a model worth reproducing in other cities of the country, and also centrally with the help of the Ministry of Culture, especially in those places that gather many different aspects of culture, folk culture, historical monuments, music and even gastronomy. Such cooperation can be a real machine for developing and promoting many regions in the country. I say this, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to show that the Change Movement and I personally seek extroversion in the field of cultural heritage. From a position of principle, we think it is absolutely necessary that the cultural institutions of the country be opened abroad, that they develop successful cooperation, that they take advantage of the opportunities offered to them. We also have in mind the controversy about the possibility of long-term borrowing or export, as we say, of museum exhibits. Obviously we must encourage institutions, such as the Benaki Museum, to engage in international cooperation. The Hellenic Museum of Melbourne has many values for the promotion of the country, as well as for maintaining links with the Homogenees. You had originally predicted, Minister, the possibility of fifty plus fifty years. Then you put it down to twenty-five plus twenty-five. Let's not play the courgette with the years now. We understand that this time horizon is necessary for the completion of this particular...(It didn't sound due to a bad connection) However, once the provision is general and not limited to specific cooperation with the Benaki Museum, there must be serious institutional guarantees that any similar assignment of antiquities must be justified and produce real added value. We are pleased that the final reason for the CSCE, which is an instrument of unknown prestige, will be the same as that the regulation does not concern museums established by the Ministry of Culture. I heard a moment ago that with the legislative proposals you brought, you followed the proposal of the Change Movement to be five years after the end of the first twenty-five years and that you took into account the guarantee requested by our parliamentary representative, Mr Kegeroglou. Finally, I urge you too, Minister, to adopt the amendment tabled by the Change Movement for the Archbishops. They are the people who actually keep our archaeological sites open and ensure that our cultural heritage is accessible, safe and clean. For years they have been working almost fifty to sixty days a year longer, without it counting pensions. It is time to rectify these years of injustice against them and, since you yourself said that the Ministry of Finance tells you that there are other categories of workers for whom similar arrangements have to be made, we expect you to commit at least with a certain timetable that this arrangement will come from the government in this House. This injustice must be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Mrs Malama, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is another sign of government brutality, I would say, against our ancient cultural heritage. It's another move to downgrade the protection of the country's ancient wealth. It is another project for the assignment of our ancient cultural goods to interests. It is another step towards the degradation of our country's potential for the development by means of a vehicle of ancient cultural heritage. Behind the particular need to modernise the operation of the Archaeological Resources Fund, the government is trying to promote its privatisation. He's said it before, and he says it all the time. Its intention is that ancient civilization gain, but not profit for the whole society, but profit for private pockets and interests in general. A lot has been said. Today, however, the ITD is not working. I call on the Minister to undertake an experiment that we have recently conducted, to try to order by phone an exact copy of the MSF. He won't be able to. I repeat: we have done so recently. To get a candidate of the School of Fine Arts an exact copy of a bust, we need to get dozens of phones in museums to find someone to send it. The FTL is not selling today for accurate copies, and the Minister must tell us why. I hope he does not question what we are saying, because at the moment I have all the documents at my disposal. You have a year and a half to power, and you must answer why the EPA has collapsed. Wonderfully? But you're not interested in operating the SSP. You are interested in assigning its subject matter to individuals. Legislate imitation with this bill and it's good for people to know it. You consider that it is possible for a private person to reproduce copies, imitations, i.e., of the exact copies of ancient works produced by the MSF. It reminds us of this Acropolis illustrations on soft drinks, which you were telling us at the time, that there is no need for permission because they are sketches and not accurate copy. Now fill it with the imitations of ancient works of art. Congratulations! Congratulations, Minister! The most tragic one, however, which makes this bill is the introduction, with the blessings of the Ministry of Culture, of the removal of Greek antiquities from the country. You tried to introduce a provision that, if anything, would allow the "loan" of antiquities from the Greek museums to be used in collections abroad. After the riot you caused, you've reduced this time to fifty years. For us this is a direct sale of our ancient cultural heritage, and you must recall it immediately and ask and apologise to the Greek people who are playing our cultural heritage, literally to the dice. This government will remain in history for the negative way it dealt with our ancient Greek culture and ancient cultural heritage. And this bill, like all your previous moves, shows that you do not understand the importance of ancient civilization for the Greek people. For a year and a half, there has been no sculpture in the archaeological sites of the country. You have given up all the excavations, you are about to dismantle the ancient Venizelos in Thessaloniki, take permits for farms next to Ancient Stagiras, and you have given up antiquities everywhere in their destiny. You said that SYRIZA increased revenue in the archaeological sites. That's good for us. But you didn't say that this money was coming back to the Treasury, so that archaeological sites could be maintained and they wouldn't be in danger of burning, as in the Mycenas in the summer that passed us. Instead of considering all of this, you, with this bill, are enacting gastronomic nights and wine making in archaeological sites. Don't you have any parole? Instead of running a broad program of digitization and online promotion of archaeological sites, so that they can survive in this lockdown we live in, you dream of dinner next to ancient columns! We visited recently, before the second lockdown, the archaeological site of Amona Zeus in Cassandra. His digitisation could ensure thousands of visitors and not only there, but in all archaeological sites. If you want the archaeological sites to survive, they will have to pass into the new digital age. In conclusion, I would like to refer to a very worrying news that the Prime Minister made yesterday in his interview. He told us that in his design it is not to open entertainment spaces, i.e. theatres, cinemas, music scenes, until Easter. They will therefore not work until May. We ask you: Are you aware of this design? And if so, do you have a support plan for people working in this area who will remain closed for a year and a half in total? Already in Thessaloniki, social kitchens are being organized for artists, commonly 'city houses'. How about tomorrow, Minister? 'The Minister of Cassites'? "Social distributions of food and clothing"? Are you worried about this? Do you have any thoughts on how the space will survive or do you not have a particular concern about this? If it is in your footage to lose the whole season, then you should prefer new support measures, far more brave than what you have chosen so far, than those which are - literally, fierce - to date. Otherwise, this government will link its mandate to the most disastrous management of modern culture, but also to the ancient one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. We continue with the MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Athanasio Moraitis. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go back to the development that proved to be a fiasco for the architectural monument, the Museum of Olive Tree Brana. Minister, with the manipulations you have made - we have told you in the Commission too, but I would like to repeat them today - you have offended the memory of important people who have fought to save this architectural monument. I don't know where to start. Other colleagues have said that. Kundurus, Delivoria, Sifnai reported. I want to remind everyone that from the founding members of "ARCHIPELAGOS" it was Leuteris Papadopoulos, it was Zyl Dassen. I feel the need, however, when I turn to the Greek Parliament to mention a name that was very little mentioned and is the name of the company's president "ARCHIPELAGOS", Nikos Sifonnakis, a former colleague of ours. It is one of those colleagues who left their mark in this House. It's not the kind of guy who came by and went by. They left their mark with changes, reforms, things they did and left behind. Nikos Sifounakis is the one who has been fighting and is being held up over the last few years by the Brana Oil Circuit Museum and I think that you should, Mrs. Minister, respect a former colleague of mine. I'd like to get an example to close this and go back to the next. If something has emerged in these three days of the debate in the committee, but today it is this different concept and culture on culture. And the example I'll bring is specific. It is the proposal agreed with the company "ARCHIPELAGOS" of Ms Konordos and concerned the members of the board of directors of the company, in contrast to yours. I would like to remind you that Mrs Konordos' proposal had on the Board of Directors the International Commission for the Conservation of Industrial Heritage, had the University of the Aegean and was chaired by the respective chairman of the board of directors of the company 'ARCHIPELAGOS', as opposed to your own designated board of directors of four persons, which would obviously be appointed by the Minister. You must understand, then, that society in this era now that we are living requires institutionality and every minister cannot in such serious historical monuments put his or her friends, his or his or her party leaders. Minister, closing down because I believe that you have recognised all the wrong handlings that have taken place, I would ask you to make good on this issue. The museum must be strengthened, especially at this very difficult juncture that we are going through. I now come to the present appearance of State Secretary for Sport in Parliament and the tabling of the amendment. What I have received, but also many of my colleagues, I think, is that the Minister has not understood at what stage and at how difficult a time the world of sport is today. I would like to remind all Members that since March sport has been suspended, it has been quarantine. It is grim the reality of the sports movement in the country. What do we got? We have amateur club enclosures, we have unpaid athletes of national championships, we have unpaid trainers, workers in clubs, without including a large number of unemployed people who have brought back the repeated lockdowns and, of course, the delays in federal grants. What was allowed? What's left of it? Super League in football and basketball A1. Why? In order to avoid the loss of revenues from the "COPIT" and, of course, the TV contracts. There was time and the Ministry of Sports could have taken care of, Madam Minister - the State Secretary, unfortunately, is not here to tell him - with strict measures, serious programming, health protocols and other events in the country and not have reached the point where we are today, with thousands of athletes not having the opportunity or training. An entire, unfortunately, sporting generation of the country is heading towards total catastrophe. The country will lose an entire generation of athletic talents, and that is too hard but too hard. What have we heard all over the past few months and heard it today? Of course, he transferred it for another week. We are listening to the money that Mr. Aeggeakis will come to give to the clubs, to the world of sport, to support them. I would like to remind him that the pandemic began in March and so far the sports world has not seen a single euro. Madam Minister, it seems that the State Secretary did not take him out of time to complete the intrigue he was planning, which is no longer - because this is his primary objective and we have been calling it for months and we will continue to say so - from the overthrow of administrations to specific federations. So it comes a few days before the time runs out and it tables an amendment, changing the final dates for the elections. Obviously, this isn't the first time that this is happening. Every month we have a date change. I would like to say to Mr. Augiakis from Stephas of the House today that he will reschedule the dates. He'll be here very soon and he'll set other dates. Nor is it enough to plan a month - a month and, of course, the rational manipulation of antiquities, what I would like to add - and we have seen it clearly today at the time of its position - is that it is already being exposed. Honestly, I want to ask a question. What was the point of the threat - because it is a threat - described in paragraph 1 of the amendment, which is aimed at a specific federation, that it will swallow any administration before 31/12-2020? Don't hide. The only federation that had before the elections the next time was only the SEGAS, no other federation. If I wanted to put a title in this unacceptable and embarrassing amendment, the title would be'suspension of elections', unfortunately. Of course, as time does not take for your intrigue plans, you do not get out of your ears, and I am sorry to say so. You've reached sport at that level. With the amendment you are bringing, therefore, you are practicing - and I believe that anyone who has listened to Mr Augakis today understood it and realised it - that you are playing with the register and working with it, just to exercise control over the unions, with the promise of financial support and, of course, the acquisition of votes. We have pointed this out from the outset. The record you made and advertised as a government project to upgrade sport, not only does it not do that, but it has also created huge problems in the operation of clubs. And you can't see that. You submitted the unions with the 12 million cheese in slow and difficult procedures, with many services involved. You have, unfortunately, made a digitalisation tool in a bureaucratic system. Of course, you've done it with a hurry and carelessness, but there's another target above that. Your aim was to make the registry a manipulation tool ahead of the elections to the federations. Unfortunately, what we are seeing now, because the register will be the great fiasco of the government in the field of sport in the next few years, you are trying to transfer the responsibilities - we are seeing it in various publications - to directors, heads, employees of the Ministry of Sports and, of course, there are publications photographing the Secretary-General of Sport. I think that in the face of this very difficult position of sport and the sport movement in our country, the Ministry of Sport should be serious about it. The Undersecretary should assume his responsibilities and take out the quarantine - not health - sport. Unfortunately, things are very difficult. People who are fighting life to save unions right now are in a desperate situation and if this policy continues, I fear that we will have much more negative results in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u281	We continue with Mr. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much. First of all, you will allow me, Mr President, to comment on a number of dangerous matters which have been heard in the Chamber by both the Minister and some Members. In short, they have implied that we have many findings in the museum warehouses and in boxes, and we do not know what to do with them, so let us export them. However, in warehouses there are findings that are constantly maintained, recorded and studied, enriching at the same time the periodic thematic and anniversary reports of our museums. Therefore, it is not possible to make such a sloppy approach. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill by the Ministry of Culture, which finally ended up being a stitching-up of photographic arrangements, arrangements and services, is supposed to be about the restructuring of a very important public fund, such as the Archaeological Resources Fund. However, although this restructuring is necessary, it appears from a large number of transitional provisions that restructuring is referred to the bells and not to the fund as well as the dismantling of valuable public resources for private exploitation at the expense of the State. Its rename to the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources refers rather to bad examples of the past, such as the OPE, that is, the Agency for the Promotion of Greek Culture, which established and maintained until the very same system of power went bankrupt with the same - I would say - protagonists. In particular, Ms. Mendoni should remember OPE well since her pre-service to the Ministry of Culture, as since he closed and inherited his debts to the Ministry of Culture and the STAR in 2011, his liquidation was continuously extended every year. That is precisely what is happening now with the Sexual Solidarity Fund of Officials of the Ministry of Culture in Article 56 of the Bill and with many employees being suspended on the sole responsibility of the Minister. Continuing to this tradition of "usable" administration and management of public money through the establishment of various companies around the Ministry of Culture, this bill provides for the establishment of a legal person of private law and special purpose in the management of immovable property, despite the fact that, with the same bill, an address is being established within the LAG for the use of this property. Ultimately, it seems that this address of the LRA will stay on paper, as the company will certainly be able to establish itself first. Let us now go to some financial data published by ELSTAT, as the Minister said to the committee 'the figures always tell the truth'. In the five years 2010-2014, receipts from museum visits and archaeological sites were 236 million. In the five-year period 2015-2019 SYRIZA's collections were 492 million. There was more than doubled revenue than visits. Is this due to the fact that SYRIZA increased the tickets, as the Minister argued, but did nothing about the FIFG? Of course not. This was due to the proper management of SYRIZA to avoid losing the revenues of the EDF in the pricing policy that was adapted targeted, in the electronic ticket established in eleven places. This is proven by other numbers. Receipts from the sale of manuscripts and copies of archaeological objects during the five years 2010-2014 were 6 million. In the five years 2015-2019 on SYRIZA it was 12 million. There was a doubling of revenue from another profitable activity of the EDF, due to the upgrading of its workshops and sales offices, of a profitable activity which the Government of the New Republic is constantly undermining, either by gradually giving it to private individuals or by encouraging the speculation of third parties in this area by way of grace. Thus, in this draft law, the Government first ensures that the EDF loses its exclusive right to accurate copies of archaeological objects. Secondly, it has already done so since last July with L.4708, as clearly stated in its explanatory statement, to release fully from the authorisation and the production of simple copies of monuments from private individuals, namely competing products from the EDF. This has so far created a scandalous legislative gap which those who speculate against the Greek state and whom the Government of New Democracy rather wants to serve. But let us also see some other parts of the bill. On the basis of the provision for the Historical Museum of Crete, the Minister told the committee that if it was exposed to another museum part of its collection or some findings which it hosts, although they belong to the Greek State, it would have the effect of weakening and breaking up the collection and of complying with the ICOM rules which prohibit the division of the collections. I really wonder how the Minister can invoke for a private museum hosting objects of the Greek public the unbroken collections as he says, while he has introduced into the bill the unacceptable Article 48 in order to expatriate mobile monuments from Greek museums and to be sent abroad for fifty years. For fifty years he has now said and see until the end of the meeting where he will reach the government's bazaar. Indeed, whether the collections of the rest of the museums in the country are to remain undisturbed does not concern it with the Government and the Minister? Rather not, since it is trying with embarrassing, night-time amendment to question the status of public museums in the country and the social role they perform, and again amending the archaeological law without any consultation. To prove what? When it actually proclaims that public museums are not being maintained, if these are not extroverted enough, it says, even introducing criteria into the law, which it dares not even impose on non-public museums, their recognition by the Ministry of Culture. Minister, I'm not so sorry about the clipboard, anti-institutional and anti-social way you legislate. I am very sorry, however, that a Minister of Culture and a government show hatred for the Archaeological Service and do not respect the country's heritage. I am very sorry that a Minister of Culture does not understand that the reasons founded and operating a public museum in an area, in a place or in an outlying island are far more than certain typical conditions of extroversion and provision of services, as you say. The provision of services goes beyond the direct access, awareness and knowledge of local communities for their cultural heritage, the contribution of museums to maintaining the historical memory and highlighting the history of a place. It seems, however, that the Minister itself deplores extroversion and transparency when he asks for secret funds to be set up with Articles 54 and 55 to be set up, insider pay for informants and secret transfer agreements supposedly for the repatriation of antiquities. Honestly, no response has yet been given to this grey zone, to the pay of the informants. We know that there are experts' committees anyway. All proceedings are conducted with classified documents and confidential protocols, and repatriation is carried out with the police escort. So what, and who do these photographic provisions serve? Are you going to tell us? Because, unfortunately, all the provisions of the bill are, at the end of the day, as is the case with the provision for EKOME, which transfers resources and money from Greek taxpayers abroad, and, at the same time, creates a problem in the domestic branches of professionals. That is why the country's film world and domestic film production is asking for it to be withdrawn. On the other hand, when we table amendments to the House to support the people of modern culture, the government is rushing to reject them, despite the positive response they have had from them and despite the fact that for ten months...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u283	Finish it, Mrs. Vetta. You're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u284	I shall conclude, Mr President. I still have one sentence. These people, the workers of culture, have not had substantial support from the state for ten months. All four amendments have a positive sign, Minister. And the amendment on the financial support for authors and artists through Collective Management Bodies and the amendment on the quota for the transmission of Greek musical works by radio stations and the amendment on the inclusion at the lowest VAT rate, 6%, of the production of books, tickets, cinemas, theatres, etc. and the amendment on public lending from libraries to strengthen the world of the book. We call on you and all Members of Parliament to adopt these very positive regulations, in practice proving your recognition in the valuable offering of his culture and his people, which are currently being tested very hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. MPs and MPs, Minister, give me, in fact, a huge impression that the government's rapporteur and government officials dare to refer to Melina Mercouri. In fact, there is no shame in the New Democracy. The government that found it a good idea to borrow the Parthenon sculptures from the British Museum and to meditate it in 2020 as "Melina Merkouri", just before the end of the year, brings the lending of our antiquities abroad, that is, what made it embarrassed. He therefore declared this year "Melina Mercouri". At least don't invoke her if you want to do all this. You started with a provision for the export of antiquities for ten plus ten years, and you made it fifty plus fifty, so that you could now reach twenty-five plus twenty-five. Despite the bazaar, the result is that you have been sending Greek antiquities abroad for fifty years. We won't live to see if they'll be back. And that is what you call'modern museum policy'. Minister, invoke the Benaki Museum and its need to expose part of its collection in Melbourne. Is that not the report already being implemented for the seventh consecutive year? Is it not the report that is already being implemented with the existing provisions of the archaeological law, which provides for a strict authorisation to be granted abroad for five years with a possibility of renewing for a continuous period of five years to the extent that the relevant conditions are met? So there is no need to change the archaeological law to continue the exhibition of the Benaki Museum in Melbourne, and you know that very well, Mrs Mendoni. There have been arguments about the annex to the Louvre Museum in Abbu Dhabi. Minister, are these our models, colonial museums with collections acquired from all over the world before international rules prohibiting the export and marketing of antiquities? Are these our standards? The Greek museums have a peculiarity. It's their power. They have exhibits from the place just where the museums are located. The Eniocho in the Delphi, the Corres under the Acropolis. This is the difference between our museums and other museums. And that should have been the discreet difference in our cultural policy. But you do not want to pursue cultural policy. However, we are going to another characteristic paragraph in the provisions for the Historical Museum of Crete. There, in a private museum, you legislate the single and unbroken collection. What collection, Minister? The collection consisting of the findings of the public who were found there as a deposit, as temporary storage? And now the Historical Museum comes in and says that "the findings that have brought me temporarily belong to me, are part of my collection and should not be gone"? Because that's what it says in practice, that they shouldn't leave - and that's what you consent to - the public's findings from this museum. Think, Minister, what the Melbourne Museum will tell us in twenty-five years from now on with the same logic. In fact, to justify your order, you refer to ICOM's international rules prohibiting the division of museum collections. Are these rules a tire? In the case of the Historical Museum of Crete it is in force. In the case of the Benaki Museum they have no power. Doesn't that seem strange to you? The truth is that you legislate your criminal provisions on order and justify them using the rules at hand. You thought you would tire the international rules of ICOMOS and ICOM to serve your plans, as you did in the case of Metro Thessaloniki. You have just come to my timely question, as a Minister in the Council of State, that it is false that ICOMOS is preparing a resolution and now the resolution has come out. Greece breaks apart for the lies that the Ministry says again and again, it breaks apart for the destruction of the ancients in Venizelos, and you continue and legislate more and more. It is, of course - to be honest - not your own decision. This is a decision by Mr Mitsotakis, Prime Minister personally, who announced it personally and after his own decision, the "ATTY METRO" and the CAS and you were mobilized. But that's not all you do. You started with a slight change in a paragraph of Article 45 and you change the entire Article 45 of the archaeological law on museum policy. And what are you doing, Mrs. Mendoni? You are announcing the gradual closure of the small museums in the country, because you are connecting funding with adequate spaces, adequate workers and a number of criteria that you set for private museums. Really, tell us, the collection in Syros, Ermoupolis, how will these criteria pass? What opportunity is she given to go through these criteria? You want to close these small museums. To say this differently, with another change, with one amendment you have to send their exhibits abroad or elsewhere you are judging. That's the point. Close the museums in small places, which depends on their tourist product from it, to use their ancient ones as you wish. If you want to let small miracles become in the museums, give the staff, give the infrastructure they need. The Archaeological Service has shown that it can perform miracles. He proved it at the visit site of Peristera in Sporades. Give them the means to do it. Trust the public, Mrs. Mendoni. Do not send our ancients abroad to private individuals. But I want to close up with a subject that is a matter of order. The issue of the Staff Solidarity Fund has been raised several times in Parliament and in documents. You are once again extending the clearance procedure by the liquidator you appointed, in fact, so that the prosecution of the two felonies never proceeds, the embezzlement of the EUR 282 000 for counterfeit loans and mismanagement based on the General Accounting Office of the State. You've started SADs not for the employees who have been mismanaged, but for the employees who took the case to the D.A. Such cover-ups, Mrs. Mendoni. Obviously, we will vote against this provision. The children's station and workers from the Solidarity Fund must go to the Ministry of Culture, as must camps. I am sorry - common sense is being violated and we must stop here. We invite you as Mera25 to withdraw all the critical provisions concerning the Historical Museum of Crete and the contradiction with what you bring to the export of the findings of the Greek museums abroad for 50 years, for a period that neither we nor our children will ever be able to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u287	And we close the list of speakers with SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr Mario Katsi. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to address the Minister for Culture. Mrs Mendoni, I would like to offer you warm congratulations and a great deal of good news which, for the first time today - I do not remember another time - has been flooded by the Acropolis. Congratulations on the unpermeable cement you put in the Acropolis. A lot of brass you hadn't predicted drainage of the rainwater. The videos circulating online with the waterfalls running on your clipboard and dangerous windowwork are a monument of failure that will accompany you forever and you and the Mitsotakis Government. Secondly, the provision for the long-term rental of Greek antiquities abroad. I hear the MPs of the government majority talking about tourists coming, about the money they invade. I'll make a comment. It is ideological remnant of the Right that its MPs treat culture with a crunching syndrome, with a colonial logic of expatriation of our antiquities and the concept of culture as an opportunity to sell magnets, gossips and badly designed kits souvenirs. The provision you are proposing is colonial and it turns out that not only have you traded culture, but along with the current flood you show that you are not capable of safeguarding the great works of cultural heritage. The irony today of this law being passed and at the same time of flooding the Acropolis is monumental. I now come to the provision that emblem has been introduced into the bill concerning the former Article 69 - if I am not mistaken - the current Article 58 with the reform, which concerns the EMEA. First of all, this article was never put into public consultation, never received the opinion of the bodies active in the audiovisual sector. The EMEA is a successful tool - the SYRIZA government and the then State Secretary for Digital Policy, Mr. Kretsos - has introduced it, which attracted audiovisual producers by providing incentives to both cash rebates, 40% of the eligible costs of production and tax reliefs, taxes, 35% of the invoices of the eligible costs. It is accompanied by the financing of approved investment projects through the Public Investment Programme and is further supported by two important instruments, the Guarantee Fund and the Investment Fund. These two funds, these two tools your government has not continued. You leave them cold. And you do not take into account the important development dimension, but also the many benefits that the attraction of audiovisual productions to both the country and the workers in the industry, whether it is television whether it is television or platforms, for actors, assistant staff, technicians, directors, writers and so on. One question that needs answer: Why didn't you bring this provision of the former Article 69 into today's bill in the summer when you decided to give more motives and bring a law on the EMCDDA and increase the cash rebate from 35% to 40%? What was the truth in a few months' time and indeed in a pandemic, now that production has been cancelled, to enable production to produce half the tariffs, 50% from abroad of eligible expenditure, 50% from abroad, to be from another country, from a third country? It cannot be argued that it must constantly be improved every so long and so soon in just a few months without increasing incentives has been tested. How can you change it so soon? This creates insecurity, instability, unfair competition in terms of time. This will help to postpone planned productions, not to continue programming the existing ones. The layout is photographic and obviously intends to join Mr. Mitsotakis' communication patronage who perceives the audiovisual industry, such as the yield of Greek citizenship to the famous actor Tom Hanks. This is the idea of Mr Mitsotakis, and this is probably what he wants to do with the provision. The provision is extremely problematic. It completely alters the founding aims of the EMCDDA and instead of attracting foreign producers it transfers funds and money from Greek taxpayers abroad for the very large productions over 10 million euros and puts a wall of 12 million for cash rebate, for the reimbursement of money, that is, for productions up to 37.5 million euros. Thus, it infringes the EBRD's provision that the EBRD operates on the territoriality of the criteria for eligible expenditure. This shows a slap in the legalisation and violation of the same provision. Have you really passed this provision from the regulation governing State aid and exemptions for State aid by the European Commission? We do not risk in the future that a large production will come here and we are finally not going to approve the European Commission's expenditure and we are going to be resilient abroad and we are pouring the milk card and all the other productions that have been planned are gone. Because it's very difficult to keep everything you've built in recent years, even a little mistake to do. It's a very sensitive sector. It also creates unfair competition in relation to small and medium-sized productions which have already been attracted by the EMEA and which include these 100% of tariffs in Greece, that is, purely Greek tariffs. We are not against attracting large producers under any circumstances. That was precisely the purpose established by the EMEA. But there is a huge problem in the domestic branches of professionals active in the field of cinema and television, both in terms of the availability of'staff and crews', i.e. staff for their parallel employment in domestic productions, as well as in terms of the duration of their employment, and in terms of employment relationships, wages and insurance rights with which they will be working. For example, it is possible for a large production, a large number that the Greek people can come to the country and pay half the tariffs and expenses from foreign countries, to come here and with Bulgarian salaries to hire Greek staff, suck for a very long period of time all staff - because productions are too large and need a lot of people - so that all efforts at domestic audiovisual production are thoroughly stripped of either a series, a film, a documentary or other content. So they will not find any staff and they will not pay Greece's wages. They will pay to the wages of the country that will cut tariffs, for example possibly Bulgaria or Cyprus or any other state, which has lower tax incentives and will not have insurance cover. This problem, with half the tariffs being foreign, will create a "hole" in the receipts of the state and from the tax and from the FBI. I do not understand how these tariffs, which will be presented to the EMCDDA, can be controlled in terms of costing and overvaluing expenditure abroad? Because it is not normal for the Greek taxpayer to pay the overcompensations and overprications made in a foreign country and to check at the same time where this extra money is being channelled. He can't control this ETUC. It's impossible. A company with sworn accountants that will be hired by production will not be able to control these foreign invoices here in the country to know where they are going. In addition, 50% of foreign invoices for eligible expenditure are unacceptablely high. Let me join your logic that you want to make the country more competitive when it comes to the coming of audiovisual productions. Attraction to substance will not be, since tariffs will be half foreign. Why are you going to 50%? Why didn't you think about 5% of expenditure, about 10%, as is happening in the Czech Republic. We could perhaps agree to make the country more competitive and include only 5% or 10% of foreign tariffs. That is, in terms and conditions, this extra. Also, something lasting as to the part of the provisions. I am sorry to concentrate on this, but because of the subject I am well aware of, I was also a rapporteur when we founded the EMEA, it does not change the escape clause for a production. In other words, it enables the law, when it completes a production of 60% of the eligible costs, to stop the application to the EMFF for a refund. If it is the way the provision came, we now have a very serious risk that 50% will be produced with foreign invoices and only 10% of Greek invoices will be produced. So the expenditure in Greece will only be 10% invoices. You know what this means to the state, how it will get inside and not actually collect anything at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to close by the fact that the vast majority of the actors in the area have come out of a joint announcement. It's the Greek Filmmakers' Company...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u289	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u290	...is the Association of Filmmakers of Greece, the Association of Filmmakers of Greek Filmmakers, the Association of Technicians, the Ethiopians - Filmmakers, the Panhellenic Federation of View - Acroama, the Association of Independent Producers of Audiovisual Works, the Association of Greek Actors, the Greek Academy of Films. All of these issued a joint communication calling for the withdrawal of the article and for consultation. Having said all that I have said, we as the ones who are struggling for the success of the project, as with political courage the Minister admitted, as the supporters of positive changes in the summer that went through the increase in incentives, we ask the Minister to hear once again the space and industry withdraw the provision, bring it back to consultation, since we have all agreed on a very specific plan, and then we will agree. Otherwise, we are voting against this provision. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u291	And with this, Mr. Katsi, you've been in ten and half minutes. I will now give the floor to the Minister to give an answer, and then a circle of rapporteurs and special speakers will follow, which I will explain how and with what time. Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because a lot is being heard, I will say a few words about what the SYRIZA Member just said. First of all, the Acropolis flood. He had to know that the Acropolis in recent years has been flooding. Why? From the north climatic, from the flag to Clepsydra there are seventeen drains, which have been deactivated to prevent water from leaving the urban area. In the southern climate, from the drains that exist, the actuators are minimal. Most of them have been shut up for years. All the waters are fleeing from only three hydrogens, which are from the power plant to Clepsydra, in the area above the lift, which we have done and are proud of the work, we are proud of the accessibility of the Acropolis. I repeat, the Acropolis is always flooding. Do you know what the consequence was? A section of the wall fell due to these floods in 2014 in the north climatic. Now, with the routes, it was made for the first time a well in the Acropolis, in order to protect the southern climate. Already, a plumbing study is being prepared to solve the problem, while in the five years of SYRIZA governance did not even come to your mind to conduct such a plumbing study, although you knew the fall of the wall in 2014. Because something else has been said, the government does not care about the people of culture, about small businesses, and so on, I will set an example. Of course I have all the evidence and I say it. An AMKE and its people - it is the AMKE silk mill - in 2020 they received from the Ministry of Culture 35,000 euros. How? The EUR 15,000 was under the theatre grant, which we doubled from 1 million to 2 million. From the Special Development Program that we did because of COVID -19 for digitisation of a cultural reserve, AMKE itself received 18,000 euros and finally received 2,000 euros as an AMKE within the framework of horizontal aid. Total: 35,000 euros. You don't call it a little!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u293	Then why are they yelling, ma'am?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u294	Don't interrupt, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. Thank you, Minister. We will now go to a circle of second-rounds for those of the rapporteurs and special speakers who naturally want it for five minutes, but with the request that the five minutes be respected. This cycle, as usual, starts from the smaller groups in power, and ends with the rapporteur in New Democracy. I would ask Mr Gregoriadis if he wishes to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u295	In honour, Mr President, I have exhausted my dentistry and my tritology. I've spoken for twenty-four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u296	I saw it. First of all, everyone or in any case, most of you have used it. The Bureau was comfortable. However, no such obstacle arises. It's not a question or I'm not looking at how much time you've spoken. If you want, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u297	I have noticed that you love us all Members, but I do not wish to speak. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u298	I don't know if Mrs. Asmakopoulou wants to take the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u299	I'm not going to take the floor for a second. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u300	Thank you. We are moving on to Mr Delis, who has the floor. Mr. Delia, if you speak from your position, you'll be wearing a mask. If not, you'll come to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President, and I do not think I will exhaust the five-minute, I will be quite brief. We have said a great deal on our own side of the first 45 articles in the bill, unlike the other political forces that have not been mentioned at all in this matter, which we consider to be central to the whole of the bill, which takes off trade and is even more intensified by entrepreneurship in the area of culture. I will only mention a typical example of how this is done and how it is related to the corresponding changes in education. As you know, Mr President, the educational role of a museum is being completed, it is based, if you wish, on the educational programmes that it can and must draw up, so that young people, students, students and the whole of the people can have access to these programmes. So according to the bill, what we are discussing today, these educational programmes will be marketable. They will be sold by this Agency for the Management and Evaluation of Cultural Resources, with all that that means for what it will be or will not be access for large parts of the popular layers to these activities, in these educational programmes. Our opinion is that these should be free for everyone and naturally be accessible to all the people and especially to the new generation. I will not talk more about the bill, nor about its individual provisions. I shall only refer to two amendments. In particular, Amendment No 652/25, a part of which refers to the Colour Orchestra. We agree that the directors of this orchestra are not personally responsible for the non-payment of insurance contributions and other increases - alas! - since the debt they have incurred is because the State grant has not been paid. Of course we agree to be rid of every measure at their expense. However, we think that this step is half the way it is. We believe that the government must also pay back the debt so that the workers' signals are not lost. That, Minister, should also be made clear in the article. There's time, it can be printed. At the next point, point 6, with the regulation introduced in this amendment, it is quite simply another gift being paid to the channels, since the deadline for these to sign contracts for the disposal of 1.5% for the production of audiovisual works is increased. In other words, facilities and a percentage which are usually not even paid. Overall, despite the fact that we have a positive attitude to what I said about the Colours Orchestra and because there are other articles that provide the services of the National Museum of Contemporary Art and because, as you can see, there is a difficulty in combining different provisions, with which other provisions are in agreement and with others, we ultimately end up voting 'no' here in this amendment. I shall end with the amendment tabled last by the Ministry of Health. This amendment also consists of three articles. If only the first article, and in particular the first paragraph of the first article, were to come, we would be voting since it relates to the fact that the newspapers of doctors and nurses were received, despite the fact that these recruits are to be given - so it is, after all, the case - not from the state budget, but from the hospitals' available. If available, if the hospitals have the corresponding revenue. But below, the second article concerns the issue of payment by state health structures, health centers, hospitals, insurance institutions, all of them, of the coronary tests in private diagnostic centres. We all remember a few days ago the government announces the valuation of the test, the molecular control at 40 euros, and the rapid test, the quick one at 10 euros. It was not long ago and these prices increased, apparently after a demand from well-known private health centres and their owners, and 40 became 60 and 10 became 20. Before well, in other words, the private clinical authorities and the owners of private diagnostic centres wish that the government will immediately meet their wishes. In the case of workers' demands, there is no time, 'no money', everywhere there are problems. Look, what emerges as a conclusion, which is, of course, again visible to everyone, is the parasitic nature of the private health sector and how much it is now necessary for the entire private sector, much more so for the private diagnostic centres, for them to come under public control and for them to be placed in the service of epidemiological surveillance. An epidemiological surveillance, which is provided for in Article 3 below, for the social structures, for people with disabilities - of course, this must be done - for prisons, for the Armed Forces, for the Greek Police, where there is a great deal of confrontation. But, Mr President, this epidemiological surveillance and testing cannot be carried out in these areas once a month. It's too big right now. In our opinion, it should be week after week, so that the pandemic is monitored even more closely in these areas where many people gather. As a whole, we will vote'residences' in this amendment, despite the fact that if the original on-call provision came on its own, we would vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr. Delis. I call the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos, for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the debate on the draft law on the reorganisation of the Fund for Archaeological Resources as a new Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources has been completed. In fact, the new organization is a fact, with its new structure and broadened responsibilities, which I would say is to make the best possible use of our country's cultural resources and improve the infrastructures of archaeological sites and museums, of course always serving the public interest. What the Ministry had to do immediately is initiate recruitment procedures, because without proper staff, the aims of the organization will remain a simple wishlist. Besides, don't forget, responsibilities without human resources and resources cannot go ahead. As far as the Brandenburg Museum is concerned, I note here that donation to the Greek public is a reserve in the next generations. The acceptance of the donation, which was not finally made in this bill, is expected, Minister, to be included by you in a new bill and to come to the House soon. Indeed, here I would like to stress that it should come after consultation and consultation of the Ministry with the donor company "ARCHIPELAGOS". Now, let me remind you, since Mrs Connordou's proposal on the establishment of the board of directors of the Brandenburg Museum has been mentioned. The proposal by Ms. Konordou was in line with the museum’s notary donation act to the public by the company ‘ARCHIPELAGOS’, a notary that ended in March 2019 under the responsibility of the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL. In other words, with the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, the acceptance of the museum donation and the responsibility of the SYRIZA government did not come to the Ministry's next leadership and, of course, the committee and the MPs. In fact, the members of the committee took note of the notarial act at the end of the committee debated two days ago about the articles. So I wonder here about the crocodile tears of some of SYRIZA's colleagues. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, lending objects of our cultural heritage in foreign museums enables our culture to reach the ends of the earth. After all, let us not forget, the destination of cultural goods and antiquities is not to be grounded in museum warehouses, but to become an estate of mankind and the people of the earth, as I said in the morning, so that these or these antiquities can be transformed into ambassadors of Hellenism. The ancient Greek culture, ladies and gentlemen, our monuments, our history, our cultural heritage, are a great comparative advantage for our country, which must be displayed every day in the world. The cooperation of the Benaki Museum, Minister, and of the Melbourne Museum of Greek Culture, opens new prospects for our country and, of course, with the control of the public and always the agreement of the CAS in order to ensure this cooperation which will work beneficially for our museums and our Greek culture. It is good, Minister, that you have accepted our proposal and the time of the process of refining antiquities. Finally, I should like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Culture for the National Museum of Contemporary Art. With the provision you bring, Minister, the responsibilities and the framework of the autonomy of museum directors, which are essentially converted into executive officials, are limited. Also, you are setting up another director post within the National Museum of Contemporary Art. In other words, there will be an additional director in the museum with the same qualifications, but appointed by the Minister. What does that mean? Conflict of competences. That means let it be held. With these arrangements, Minister, you are not helping the Museum of Contemporary Art to develop. See it again. On the contrary, what you should have resolved is the lack of an artistic director in the museum that has been remaining headless for two years, both on your own responsibility and on the responsibility of the previous government of SYRIZA - ANEL. And here I ask you, of course, 'until when'? You have to give an answer. Finally, as far as the Ministry of Digital Governance is concerned, the introduction of provisions in bills, such as today, when the bill on the Digital Transformation Bible is in consultation, is of no use. It is certainly not - I would say to my friend, Mr Pierracakis, the Minister - a sample of proper legislation. Finally, I should like to say that a last minute was tabled and an amendment from the Ministry of Health, which the Minister did not even come to support. I would like to ask him why did this amendment become an orphan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, too. I'm going to give the floor to the Minister to table some sort of legislative improvement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u305	Yes, there are three points: In paragraph 3 of Article 46, after the initial "M.N.E.P.", that is to say the Museum of Modern Greek Culture, the word "and" shall be deleted and the word "Zygomalas" shall be inserted after the word "Zygomalas" and "Oropou Municipality". In the case of (c) paragraph 1 of Article 17, the date ‘31-12-2021’ is replaced by the date ‘2-2-2022’. In the addition - Amendment No 649/8-12-20, in the case of (a) paragraph 2 of Article alone of the Amendment - Addendum, the words ‘State of the Strategic Planning Service’ shall be deleted and the words ‘General Secretariat’ shall be replaced by the words ‘State General’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u306	Please share with all colleagues. And to give the floor to Mrs Rallia Christidou, SYRIZA rapporteur - Progressive Alliance. Let me invite you to Stepma better, my colleague, to sound better, because through the mask, I don't know if you can. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin my speech and try to be as brief as possible. In Article 4, in the report on refreshments, we see you enter the arrangement with the exception of Article 15 of Law 4013/2011. With this exception, there will be an extension of up to 12 years of existing rents for refreshments or the new leases to be made. Is that so? Do we understand that right? We need an explicit answer, because we're very afraid we're right. Of course, in that case we will vote against. In Article 5, which concerns the establishment of a legal person governed by private law for the use of the property of the GDR, we will vote 'in proportion'. In Article 14 we are voting 'against' precisely because it promotes an unreasonable trade in cultural heritage. This article makes provision for resources from educational programmes, conferences and in general educational activities of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and of universities. In other words, funds from public goods should be provided free of charge by the state. In Article 15, paragraph 8, the percentage of revenue from other legal persons governed by public law and the Acropolis Museum is referred to in the future by means of a joint ministerial decision, i.e. parliamentary control. So you realise that we are also voting against this. Article 16 provides that the LAG will finance events in general by bodies. If he said 'public bodies' or even 'non-profit makers' we could talk about it. We are therefore voting against this too. In Article 46 for the Zygomalas Museum, since local society reacts, we are opposed. In Article 48 we call on everyone by roll call for the export of antiquities to be placed in a roll-call vote for fifty years. We heard the Minister's position, who claimed that after Benaki's negotiation with the investor, the demands were reduced from a hundred years to fifty years. The Ministry, therefore, watched what number the negotiation would take, in order to legislate and, in fact, to legislate on an article on all museums and not just Benaki. So we assume that if sometime tomorrow the Museum comes along and asks, because it has another investor, for seventy years, then you will re-change the law. We call this a 'falseness of parliamentary function'. And we make it clear: We are in favour of creating a Greek museum in Melbourne. I can go to that for ten years under the terms of the archaeological law antiquities - ambassadors of Greek culture, antiquities - links to the Greek homogeneity, which we honor and want near home. At the end of the ten - year period, however, other antiquities should go to their place. Simple as that. The rest serves other interests, not the interests of cultural diplomacy or of Greek expatriates. Other interests! In Article 49 the non-response for the exhibits that must go to the Mesaras Museum leads us to vote against. That is not why a statement is not enough, as the expert in the other rapporteur of the Change Movement said. We wonder how he fell into such a mistake. We think it is necessary to correct the article. As far as Articles 54 and 55 are concerned, they are obviously opaque procedures and we therefore vote 'in favour'. Article 56: Solidarity Fund. We have also talked about it in committee, and I have said it in my first speech: a prolongation of winding-up, an extension of cover. In reply, the Minister has again chosen Pontius Pilate's attitude. So we call on you to vote by name. Article 58 I also spoke in detail earlier. Likewise, we invite you to vote by name. Let us reiterate that all the associations and collectives of the cinema are against this article and ask for its withdrawal because they understand the unemployment and the reduction in their wages. Instead of helping the forces of culture, you undermine them. We are also saying that we are voting against all the amendments brought by the ministers. In particular, we call for a roll-call vote on the amendment concerning Article 45 of the archaeological law. Once again legislate in secret, without consultation. Enter the certification of museums, public and private, depending on how personal they have and how extroverted they are. A regional museum, in which you have not hired workers, how will it be extroverted? This museum on your own responsibility, since you did not send it, will not be certified. And then what? You let it hover. Will it close? Will the staff and its funding be reduced further? What's gonna happen? You said you were bringing a museum bill in the next quarter. So withdraw the amendment. Bring her as an article then. And you like - you don't like it, make an effort to accept and participate in a proper consultation and not thus bring the amendments into the middle of the night. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute more, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to refer to what the Minister said about the ancients of the Venizelos Stadium. Interestingly, he told us that ICOM did not know what he was voting for. I think we should be a little more careful and not be disgraceful, especially when it comes to international organisations. And he forgets that the KAS members sent the English letter to the international ICOM trying to justify their decision. So how do you tell us that ICOM didn't know what she was voting for? It also told us that we are wrongly dealing with a matter which is in the Council of State. This is what the Minister who in person visited the President of the Council of State on the eve of the trial of the ancient Venizelos. Is it also entitled to do unprecedented visits that undermine the separation of powers, and we are overreacting, which brings such a matter to Parliament? And we ask you: is that what you mean, when you say let justice do its job? We have brought four urgent amendments as SYRIZA: financial support for collective management organisations. Quota of Greek repertoire to radio stations. Reduction of VAT on cultural tickets. Strengthen the institution of borrowing in public libraries. You've found everything well, but you don't adopt anything. You refer them to the future. After all, you have already told us that you have already taken action immediately and effectively. And I'm wondering, do you have friends of artists? Is that what they're telling you? Because if that is the case, then it is time to ask others. If what you were saying were true, the world would not go out to unemployment for eight months, ten months, fifteen months. If it were true that your concern was true, it would not be a pile. This is the truth and the truth is self-proof, you don't need me, you don't need SYRIZA. Because if your concern is real, Minister, then there is a question of inefficiency here. It's either you're not interested or you're effective. You have exiled transparency from your vocabulary, you have called the sluggish efficiency, the service of foreign investment interests, the painted cultural diplomacy. We invite you, then, to serve the public interest, but we are obviously vain, for it is obvious that for you all such thoughts are disliked. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u308	Good. To give the floor to Minister Mendoni for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u309	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u310	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you were Minister. It is a good thing that legislative improvements are better, because sometimes we need a "and", a party. Now I'm transferring my experience and you're yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u311	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u312	It's not a matter. No one will be wronged. You'll all be justified. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u313	Under the second subparagraph of Article 3(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 657/30 of 10 February 2020, the second subparagraph of Article 3(3) shall be replaced by the following: ‘The expenditure in question shall be borne by the IFET, by means of a grant from the Ministry of Health, whose budget shall be supported by the exceptional financial support provided for in Article 5 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 252-2020 on legislative measures to avoid and limit the spread of coronary virus (A' 42), which has been ratified by Article 1 of Law No 4682/2020 (A' 76).’ I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u314	Good. I should now like to call Mr Georgios Kotsos, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, for his second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying that the coronary pandemic is testing the strengths of our society, it is afflicting our fellow citizens and it has sown fear, anxiety, anxiety, anxiety and confusion among the citizens. That is why it would be a good thing if we were not to try to replace scientists, to trust experts. I am sure that this will provide good services to society, Greek women and Greeks, protecting the supreme good of life. Every time I am increasingly impressed by how easily some of SYRIZA's colleagues use acute, extreme, heavy, heavy, insulting expressions in their attempt to cover their political insufficiency. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your political virginity was lost during your government, where the famous left account was discredited, reduced and destroyed. And now all Greeks, all Greek women, know what you can achieve, what you have been able to do, and of course, by that reason, they have led you to the chairs of counterpopulation. I say this because you have also raised a very high level of unfair matter for the chairman of the committee at today's sitting. You accused him of undemocratic behaviour, when - if anything - this President is distinguished by his tolerance, his politeness, his understanding, of which you, Mrs SYRIZA's rapporteur, felt it in your prototype, which you went to the thirteenth minute and which, for a technical difficulty, Mr Skouriakou took the floor twice, could not speak, was technically not possible, Mrs Anagnastopoulou was given the floor. The communication was then restored, Mr. Skourikos flew, and he insisted on taking the floor, while another speaker had begun. And, of course, this has been an opportunity for you to raise the issue in advance, for the sight, to create impressions and - oh gods! - to leave the Chamber. Is that political practice? So today that Mrs MacKenna could not be connected and spoke to the next speaker, did you see her tactics? This is the difference in political culture between us. This is the difference in level. Of course, through the voices, through the acute expressions, you do not have the impression that you are persuading the Greek people. You can barely strip yourself even more and of course show the Greek people that you suffer from political poverty. We've heard a lot of SYRIZA colleagues claim that the bill is coming in too much, he says. Fast after about a year and a half of the New Democracy? Fastly why, for the archaeological resource promotion fund, you have studies in your hands since 2012, in 2014, in 2015, from MRB, from the University of Athens, and you have never exploited them in the general inertia that distinguishes you and is possessed by you, and while you are admitting themselves that the EPA with its organization, with its know-how, with the executive and organisational function, can no longer meet the requirements of modern times? And the Minister comes consistently and continuously to meet our election commitments and election announcements. And it does so in the best possible way. You have even poured too much saliva for the Brana Museum - which hypocrisy - and also crocodile tears! But you haven't had fourteen months since the contract was filed with you, to do so? What did you do? Absolute inappropriate. And you come today to create a huge issue, of course, in the context of your interest, which you did not show when you were government. And even in this process, you call for great personalities, in Delivoria, in Kunduru, in Gil Dassen, as if they were involved in today's process. So let's see what's happened? You blame the Minister for bringing this bill, voluntarily, and he tried to guard the entire property of the Brana Museum, ignoring the "ARTIPELAGOS". So, is there a letter from October 10, 2019 from the company ‘ARCHIPELAGOS’ to the Minister, which he wants? Accelerate the donation integration procedures. Reminder the date: October 10, 2019. Then the issue comes to social consultation and the company "ARCHIPELAGOS" participates in a document on 9 November 2020, has specific comments on the draft law under discussion, which means that it participated and wanted the whole process to proceed. Of course, while we started the meetings of the committee, an advisory note, again at the request of the company "ARCHIPELAGOS", which says that the term of the new legal person is not satisfied with being the president of the company "ARCHIPELAGOS". And in the question of my colleague, the rapporteur for the Change Movement, if this term is met, the procedure will normally go ahead, and we have never received a reply. And instead of that, it comes on 7-12-2020 a new document which says that the twelve-month period provided for in the contract has expired, and therefore the procedure cannot proceed. The 12-month period is now in force. If he became president of the legal person, would the president of the company ‘ARCHIPELAGOS’ be applicable? And he puts the blame on you, SYRIZA, for withdrawing this provision, because the twelve-month period has passed over your own days, after you have done nothing. You have shined through your imprudentness, but today you shed crocodile tears and you are trying to create impressions on this particular subject. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Let's go a little bit to the museums of the outside and the opportunity to promote our cultural heritage there. Do we accept, yes or no, that our culture is the head of the spear of Hellenism? Do we have a moral obligation on this spearhead to make use of it for aggressive foreign cultural policy by imposing and provoking Greece and putting Greece out of the world, that is, to make cultural diplomacy, as has been said before? Someone said - again on the SYRIZA side - 'but then we will not live, the years will pass'. Ladies and gentlemen, does the cultural heritage have anything to do with a generation? He runs Hellenism over time. Do we think about our own, about as long as we live or are in total and over time we want to highlight our cultural heritage, project it, create cultural valleys everywhere in the world and thus place Greece everywhere in the world? And this is happening in a difficult period, since today the Prime Minister is fighting Brussels to prove that our problem with the neighbour is not a Greek-Turkish issue, but it is a Euro-Turkish issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u316	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u317	I'm not done, Mr. President. We must make use of our culture, for which all of us respect, enthusiastise and admit us, so that Greece is present everywhere. I am also coming to audiovisual productions. Previous colleague of the SYRIZA admitted that the objective of establishing the rebate - because you introduced it at 35% - was to attract large producers. Did you get it? We were attracted to big producers in our country? Isn't that a confession of failure? Should we not adapt and reshape this investment incentive so that it will work positively to attract these investments to our country, put our country on the international map of audiovisual producers and, indeed, large ones? Why so far what has been shown by practice? That what he attracted was small budget productions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u318	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u319	Finally, what I would like to assure you is that our Government will continue its legislative work with increasing intensity, adopting what our national poet Odysseus Elytis, who has something to do with the Brandenburg Museum, which we talked about before. It's timely because of the Elytes family. As he said, we are trying to make the leap faster than the deterioration for society and for Greece. For the Greek women and the Greeks to come out front. And I would like to invite you, if you can't follow us to this jump, at least don't stop us from doing it. Madam Minister, continue! Good for you! I congratulate you and support with all my powers the bill. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u321	I will now give the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilis, the floor in order to put it on the list of amendments with a general number of 657 and a specialist of 30 and a general number of 658 and a specialist of 31. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to say two words about the first amendment, with a general number of 657 and a specialist of 30, which we tabled in the Minister of Culture's bill as the Ministry of Health. Firstly, and above all, it concerns the legalisation of expenditure, so that the overtime of the staff at the ERC hospitals during Christmas holidays can be paid, the way in which, with other co-legislative ministries through their agencies and their services, they can carry out the rapid test and technical provisions on the claw back. The second amendment we tabled is general number 658 and special number 31, and it is extremely important. To begin with, I would like to thank Mr Andreas Blonde, the doctor, a colleague from the Change Movement, Mr Poulas and Mr MERA25's representative, who came instead of Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis at the meeting in the Ministry of Health and the colleagues of the other parties who came with the agreements and the individual objections that might have been to talk about what is a national priority of major public health, the national vaccination campaign. We're very happy. It is such an important issue - and I said yesterday to the Ministry of Health, speaking to the representatives of the parties, I say it today to the National Representation - which is not a government issue, it is not a party issue, it is a deep national and patriotic issue, the possibility of getting to the last village, the last city, the last island of the country and to properly inform our fellow citizens, scientifically documented, structured about what vaccines are, what vaccination is vaccination, how this process will begin, who will include, what is the way to reach a vaccination centre, what is theake news that should not listen. This whole effort is impossible only by the Greek Government. It's a natural thing that it can only be done by the co-responsible ministries. It is impossible only to do so by the relevant bodies of the Ministry of Health. The parties in the parliamentary arch are trying to get in front of them, and I thank them very much for that. Along with them in the national vaccination campaign, the Church of Greece, the 1st and 2nd degrees of local self-government will participate, and I thank the Minister, Mr. Theodorikos, for the encouragement to all mayors and to all municipal councils and oppositions of the municipal authorities to communicate the message of vaccination properly to the last village of the country. All medical clubs in the country and all pharmaceutical associations, as well as chambers of science, chambers of commerce, NGOs, will participate, enabling all companies, through the new technology and emails, to inform their staff as well as the entire public sector. It is a national effort of major importance, since I have explained that such a health project has never been repeated in the country again. And it is at the moment, based on scientific data, the only way to return to us, the Greeks, in a partial normality, and to regain our lives and be able to work properly and be able to reunited, embrace our loved ones, parents, family, fellow humans, friends. This is a very important effort. It is about the structure of the Greek society and the bodies, the social partners, the trade unions. It shall be recorded within this provision and shall be the primary purpose of informing and informing all months of vaccination, whether or not it lasts. It's a national vaccination campaign. Of course it also has a part, which is the part of the advertising promotion of this message, which, as the parties of the Greater and Eleanor Response agreed, will be carried out in competitive procedures with the participation of the parties, with transparency, clarity and accountability. I hope that at the end of this effort all these months we will have been pleased, because the Greeks and Greek women will have been well informed, scientifically documented to all the need for this huge national effort, we will have reacted and limited to the minimum the make news, the superstitions and the effort observed by some to attack this national effort, and we will have been able as far as possible, as you know that vaccination from our Constitution is not mandatory, to convince our fellow citizens, even the most sceptical, so that they can be vaccinated in accordance with the instructions of the National Authority for Vaccineation, approved scientists, leading in the field of odorology. This is a committee appointed by the previous political leadership as a whole and which, as Minister of Health, I have left intact, because that is the way in which we mean compassion and consensus on such an important subject. Vaccination will take place in order of priority, first of all the health and vulnerable groups and all other fellow citizens, as vaccines are approved and will come to our country. I repeat once again that this will be done at the same time for all the countries of the European Union, the same day in each country. Vaccines are free. The European Union participates in the repayment of vaccines and the Member States and share in Europe on the basis of a algorithm according to each country's population. I would like once again to thank all those who have accepted to take part in this effort. As the Ministry of Health we have undertaken on almost a weekly basis to update to three levels: firstly, on the scientific basis through the National Authority for Vaccines, on what scientific developments and what specificities are in this very difficult scientific project, secondly through the technological and operational team on how logistics is going to go, how the tenders are going to go, how the supplies, what the vaccination centres are going to go, where they are all around the country, how we avoid cyberattacks, how we digitally reinforce the process, how the vaccination process is to be carried out, how internationally standards will reach our country, how they will be transferred to factories, pharmaceutical stores, and in the order of the vaccination chain in the vaccination centres and, thirdly, how the process of informing citizens about the key messages that we want to move to the world, in which all parties are going to be in line with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u323	And we thank the Minister. I will now give the floor for three minutes to the Members of Parliament who have asked for the floor and, of course, to Mr Delis, because Mr Pafilis has not spoken as a parliamentary representative and, in any case, because I recognise the possibility of each party being represented because there are other obligations. Mrs Bakadima has the floor for three minutes, with the request if it is possible to make it easier for me too. You've all made a lot of use of time. I see it, I have the time in writing. I've been told not to give a second. I don't do that, but I want your help too. I think I'll have it. If we agree well, we will all be able to do so very well. Here you go, Mrs. Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. It would be a good thing if the Minister had stayed, because in the two amendments he was going to have his amendments, and we also have questions. I imagine he'll see the video and maybe answer us. I will start with Amendment No 657 and number 30. We believe that the provision of an extension of the power to incorporate newspapers is absolutely a good thing. The sanitaries give us the battle with the coronary pandemic every day and they need the state's practical support. As far as the second article is concerned, we consider that a regulation will be needed because medicines that are not generic remain outside the framework. We believe that a regulation will be needed to provide for zero participation in these cases too. In the third article we have mentioned a test, but we think that, even now, even if several months have passed, a wide range of public mass tests should be set up throughout the population. I shall therefore proceed briefly to the next amendment, with a general number of 658 and a specialist number 31, concerning vaccination. Let me state from the outset that Merra25 has said that vaccination is a public good, it's not a personal decision whether to make the vaccine, because it affects its surroundings. From there on, we do not think that forced vaccination should in any way be imposed. After all, it's something forbidden by our Constitution. We believe that we must all preserve the aspect of the public good contained in the vaccine and help in our turn strengthen credibility in the faces of the scientists and, of course, there must be full information for the citizens, both about the vaccine and about the whole process. There are some questions which we would like to ask for. Unfortunately, we will not be able to take it today. The questions relate to how to organise vaccination centres, how to manage them. So far we have received complaints - from health centres and hospitals for transport, for example, from Alexandra Hospital in the centres to be created for vaccination. So how they will be directed is an issue that arises because we are talking about a thousand eighteen centres. Merra25 has submitted a proposal from the outset to carry out tests, which will be transformed into vaccination centres. We believe that there should be full transparency in the process and clear public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, too. But I saw the Minister's attitude - he thanked you for a cooperation, because this is now beginning. It's not over. Now we are all being called, and we will be kept alert, and we will all be adding its potential, so that together we can deal with this evil that has found the world community. Mr. Villiardos has the floor as Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. And I wanted to ask the Minister a few questions. Unfortunately, he's not here. The way he said it, the quickness and everything he did, it seemed a little strange to me. What I wanted to ask him is whether it is really so sure of the vaccine, when we all know that it is not tested. Of course we can make mistakes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u327	Hot request, wear the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u328	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u329	It is the observation to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u330	You're absolutely right. The second thing we would like to ask him is that obviously it cannot be mandatory for the vaccine to be within the meaning of the Constitution and should not be. It's not in other countries. But will there be prohibitions related to the vaccine? For example, will he be able to go to a restaurant or to make a trip? There will be such a thing - that is all it can do in my view - bans? That is what we mean when we talk about the mandatoryity of the vaccine, whether there will be any other kind of sanctions and other bans. The next thing I would like to ask him is to tell us his opinion of all the things that are being heard. For example, Mr. McCron can't be handwriting and saying what he's saying. So he'll know more. In this particular part, is the Greek Government so sure that there is no problem? That is what concerns us, and we would like to know that. We would also like to ask him further questions, according to what we have submitted. We have submitted a number of documents, with statements from the WTO, by other doctors, famous scientists, who have questions about this vaccine. That should explain. It seemed to us to bring an urgent amendment at the last moment, to stand up and not answer any questions about what I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u331	We continue with Mr. Delis from the Communist Party of Greece for three minutes. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much. What we have to say as a JRC is that we support the vaccination campaign against COVID -19, against the coronary, so that the world is made aware and the positive attitude towards vaccination is developed, with all the scientific guarantees that are needed. But this is always the case. Because in order to implement this campaign, in accordance with the amendment tabled a moment ago by the Minister, who, unfortunately, did not listen to us, would sign two conventions: one to produce the messages of all this advertising and communication campaign and the other to broadcast. What we want to say, Mr President, is that human suffering cannot be reconciled, cannot enter the balance of profit, it is not an economic size. There are some things to which there are limits. In this sense, we cannot agree with the amendment and will therefore be placed in the'represents' position, despite the fact that we support - and I repeat - the campaign. However, this cannot be the cause and there can be an opportunity to become a means of enrichment of economic benefits from the various. But we have one more thing to say to the Minister. Because the benefits and positive effects of this vaccination campaign will not immediately be seen, we will have to spend a few months, according to the government, and because, in the meantime, the pandemic is scoring, as we see and monitor every day, we would recommend that the government proceed to recruitment of health personnel immediately now. The hospitals of northern Greece have literally reached their limits if they have not exceeded them. To finally proceed to a national pan-Hellenic epidemiological surveillance plan, with a whole population test targeted to monitor and isolate the development of the coronary pandemic. Also, to start to do the tests at some point in large workplaces, which are completely uncontrollable and which large workplaces prove to be the major transmissions of the coronary, according to the latest communications from scientists themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr. Delis. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like the Minister for Health to be here, and the Minister for Health should have been here, because this really is a very serious matter. For two months now, we have called for the consultation, the convergence of the respective committee. We are, of course, involved in the updates, as he said, because there is a great need for planning. We have tabled the proposals too. In combination with the system of the necessary tests, vaccination will come to give hope to the position of insecurity and fear. Here, then, should not be the politicians and trade unions or anyone else, but the scientists. The whole system will have the scientists. Trust in vaccine can only be gained through scientific knowledge and not by the placement of each politician. The politician will facilitate, give the scientist a chance to convince the citizen. This is unnecessarily negotiable for us. The second thing I wanted to say is that this, of course, is not a plan, it is a first step. If we count after a long time how many will come, there will be a couple of ten amendments. No plan has been drawn up. It's the first step. It seems that there is a lack of key actors with which they need to cooperate at national level. Key players are missing at national level. In any case, this amendment, as it comes, is necessary, but it is not enough. The second point to be made about the amendment is that it has no guarantee of transparency. There's no guarantee of transparency! Under no circumstances should the issue of dealing with the health of citizens be handled by management which can suffer the crisis and the arrows of all of us in relation to the element of transparency. This must be understood first by the government and said 'committee, transparency, here'. There aren't any of these. In any case, we will support this amendment in order to proceed with the process, with the corresponding position and criticism that we are making. Not everything can be traced back to ministerial decisions with powers, without mentioning the rules and criteria in the extermination. You can't do that. Mr President, the second issue - and I close - concerns the procedure. As we have been informed by the agency that Article 40 will be put to the vote separately, as is numbered, and the amendment concerning this, in our view, is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. If, therefore, a separate amendment means that when we vote on the article, we are voting on it as incomplete, incomplete, which is without improvement. So there is another vote on the article and another on our position on the amendment. Or you'll put them together...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u335	They're together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u336	No, you don't have them together. You have sent us a roll-call vote. And Mrs. Angelopoulou informed our principal that they were separate. Unfortunately, we will vote on this basis. We don't have a problem. We simply have to make it clear that in the resolution of the article, the position relates to the incomplete article, which is to be corrected. So the amendment which we are voting on following the improvements and position of the Minister is being voted on. But the corresponding article, if it does not go along with a single resolution and is voted on separately as it stands, is incomplete and we will not vote on it, we will have a seat 'at present'. We are not voting against it because we want to improve. Understood? It is also a question of applying the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. The Regulation in Article 104(5) states that amendments are to be adopted in the vote along with the text of the article to which they refer. If that is not possible, because the Ministries that have in and other articles are tabling amendments, then they will actually be put to the vote. But, for us to understand, we're positive. If he went in together, clearly the position would be 'yes', as is the amendment. We shall vote 'yes'. To be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u338	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u339	First of all, we have all incorporated it into the amendment. From there on, SYRIZA, as he tabled the roll-call vote, has made specific wording: 48, 56, 58 on Amendment 650/23, 8-12-2020. We've incorporated it all. That is how SYRIZA requested the vote. There are still four points that we should include: in Part IV: Entities for collective management of copyright, the provision of personnel of the Port Authority, the Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the grant of a financial fee, transport and insurance contracts for recovered cultural goods, an extension of the deadline for the liquidation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and an extension of the time-limit for the start of the system of opening an electronic ticket and a fan card, the number 647/20 of the State Secretary for Culture and Sport is set. In Part V: Arrangements of the Ministry of Digital Governance, number 651/24 9-12-2020 of the Ministry of Digital Governance is amended. In Part F: Arrangements under the emergency measures against the Coronary of COVID -19 are set out under Nos 657/30 10-12-2020 and 658/31 10-12-20 of the Ministry of Health. New Part Z is added: Arrangements for the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company S.A., in which the number 649/22 8-12-2020 amendment is introduced and the other parts are listed respectively in H' and I'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. I apologise to Mrs Anagnostopoulos, who has the floor now for her position for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we also consider the way in which the Health Ministry's amendment was tabled at the last minute. The Minister came here and didn't sit down and talk at all. We shall vote 'at present', because among other things there are the well-known farces. We wanted the Minister here to discuss the amendment on such a serious issue, with transparency, clarity and not with ministerial decisions without knowing what is going to follow. We've lived through them. Very few things. In summary, I would ask the rapporteur of the New Democracy not to talk about political culture, when we have lived here with the Ambassadors' agreement a thousand million, when we have lived other things and in a way that is unacceptable. I am not going to go back to the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. We've been through it. I don't think we need a defense. He knows how to defend himself. I want to come to the bill and his emblematic articles. We've heard too much. I now address only Greek fellow citizens. At a time when we are locked up because of COVID -19 when society is mourning victims, it is facing such problems, rather than legislating about these things, we are legislating about others. I said 'conscious' in my prototype and I return to that phrase. Here an entire society is humiliating in a thousand ways. It is also humiliated by this law, especially by the article on exporting antiquities. Let me say this once and for all - other colleagues have said it very thoroughly and very nicely, my dear colleague, Criton Arsenis - that the 2002 archaeological law provides for extroversion and cultural diplomacy for ten years and under conditions for another five. Rightly and under the responsibility of the Member's mission and role, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy has been begging for twenty years. But here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a piece of legislation in which we see and do. The Minister, which is years in the Ministry, comes with an article without consulting the experts. We do not see a explanatory statement from the excellent. You invoke them. So I say to the Greek society that the Benaki Museum is on the pretext of doing so. And I do not allow you, Minister, to put us against the Benaki Museum. Bring in a provision that says the Benaki Museum and that, to discuss the way a proper legalization should be done. You bring things from the back door that undermine any concept of public interest, any concept of respect for cultural heritage, any concept of cultural democracy. You are bringing the amendment, unambiguously, to close museums in small areas. If you really wanted democracy and all that, the new concept of museums is that they coexist with local society. It's a place where museums are located. And you, in the name of attestations, instead of strengthening them, go and shut them down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me for two minutes, Mr President, because with important things. With regard to the cemented Acropolis, Minister, an issue that we will come back with the scientists, not on our own, I want to have scientific documentation - the alleged study provided for in the eleventh condition of how water is absorbed. So there is no justification today for the Acropolis to have flooded since the study clearly and explicitly provided for this. So don't shoot SYRIZA. You have humiliated the country with ICOMOS and the antiquities of Venizelos. Either way, you went to cure it, you humiliated her. And I don't know, Minister, because you're not voting on, to whom you're finally accounting! Why can't an international organization, independent, non-state agency, say what it says and come and tell us what you're saying? For the bill itself. We said that of course we needed an institutional framework, the institutional framework - change. SYRIZA had proceeded in a way that was very correct of what it means to guard the public interest and I negotiate and I make public relations with the private interest in terms of strengthening the public interest. What are you doing? You told us about the Acropolis. Create the elevator with partners? Because sponsorships and all that, but not partners. I'll hang up with one thing. The EMCDDA, among other things, is a scandal. I present for the Minutes of the House all the cinematographers involved with the cinema. Export of Greek taxpayers' money abroad. The ETUC must be stopped, consulted. That's what people want. The simple one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u342	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u343	One last word. This legislation on the Solidarity Fund, the LAG, does not cure problems of the past, but puts the scientists aside and reproduces what the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said "the Golden Boys of trade union from closed doors". The Solidarity Fund will be chasing you, Minister! Mr. Vernardakis explained them very well and you invoked Mr. Army. Solution and liquidation! Not clearing in operation. You know what this is hiding, and I would like, please, in your closure, to tell us what you are going to do with the twenty-workers of the Solidarity Fund who have suspended them. It is a shame in the pandemic that these people do not have a single euro to live! It's a matter of all of us humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u344	We will close the positions of the Parliamentary Representatives with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Buga. You have the floor, Mr Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Before I close my second speech, I want to highlight two things. The first is that all the criticism of the Officerial Response for the bill focused on an article, because the rest we have heard is what was included in the recent topical question, in which the Minister replied in full and in detail on all other issues. The second thing I would like to point out and congratulate both the Minister and her colleagues is that there has been a living legislative procedure. The Minister was listening to the proposals, responding and providing solutions with improvements in law-making up to the end of the debate. Until the last speaker he took the floor and made legislative improvements, where he considered that these should be done. The article on which criticism was focused is Article 59. In my prototype I explained why we should legislate exactly as the Minister suggests and I asked her not to be an extension once, but with successive, every five years extensions, which she accepted, because it was also a proposal from colleagues from the Change Movement. We have said, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an extremist move that highlights Greek culture and highlights its universality. And it is a pity that they have heard in this Chamber, in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament, voices about the colonial perception of the Louvre Museum and how we wish to have this colonial concept in Greece. And you yourself, the MPs of the Left parties, spoke of the global cultural heritage of the historical museums. So tell us how this concept is compatible with your rhetoric against the provision of Article 59 of the bill? Because I see a great contradiction. In the debate in the plenary session of the Greek Parliament, it is appropriate to make some historical references to matters relating to which we are taking legislative action. Henry Morgue, ladies and gentlemen, was the chairman of the Rehabilitation Committee of Asia Minor refugees. In order to repay the loan received at that time by the Greek government, the Hermes of Praxitelos had asked to roam around the cities of America and the revenues would constitute the repayment of the loan. Of course, the proposal was not accepted. This proposal came back in 1963 from the then American Foreign Minister, who called for the Praxitel's Mercury to be exposed to the New York report in exchange for our country. Then there was no legislative framework. But - and see the juncture - the CSCE rejected because it considered this treatment to be humiliating for our cultural heritage. If I'm not mistaken, Prime Minister then he was George Papandreou. Today the former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, defended cultural diplomacy. We should therefore adapt to the current data, to the data imposed by the Treaties. Let me now say - Mr President, I will not take much time - two words on the Health Ministry's amendment. You know that the government has been trying to deal with it since the beginning of the pandemic - and it is being dealt with - seriously and adequately. Since the first time we have said that we trust scientists and follow their advice on how to treat the coronary. In order for the Greek government and the entire Greek society to be successful, however, together with the scientific community, there is a need for everyone to be involved and a final effort is needed, to be vaccinated as quickly as possible. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a national effort, as the government has described it and has been described by the Minister. One should not be missing, because this effort will judge whether hope will come back to our country. It will judge the future of society and our national economy. It is therefore an undeniable need to be supported by all Greeks. The Government, with the legislative initiative recommended by the Minister for Health, undertakes the vaccination business. We must isolate the voices they want to lead to an anti-vaccination movement. We must all make a first contribution to this by the political world, the President of the Republic, the political leaders and the Members themselves. We, ladies and gentlemen, must first set an example. The amendment before us today sets out the general legislative framework. I am convinced that it will be united. And, in my view, it must be supported by all parties. This will also give a sign of high symbolism to our society. And one last word before I leave the Step and because I think it is morally necessary to do so as a lawman and as a Member of the Greek Parliament. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please stop mentioning the Minister's visit to the Council of State. You can see that this is insulting the validity of the highest judges and the country's Supreme Court. No judges are affected by the simple visit of a minister. You should understand that. Our democracy and its independent functions are strong enough, so that we have overcome these horrific SYRIZA syndromes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u346	Before I give the floor to the Minister, which will close this long-term meeting since the morning, I have to say that all my fellow Members, rapporteurs and special speakers, as well as the parliamentary representatives, had the time to express their views from the Bureau. And we have to say this once and for all. And we should also express thanks to the partners who are framed by the Bureau and who are constantly on a move, so that at the end of the day we can get the best result. Madam Minister, you have the floor to close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, want your understanding and tolerance to close this long debate that has been initiated in committee over the last week and is being completed here today. I have said another time, but it seems that some people find it difficult to understand that the ministries of this government have no back doors. They only have entrances and exits transparent to everyone. Now, you blame us for seeing and doing when we legislate. We are listening to this - and our parliamentary representative has pointed this out - and we are adapting the provisions accordingly, and we are listening precisely to the debate that is taking place in Parliament. So decide what you want, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Can we hear it? Shouldn't we listen? I promised at the time of the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement that I would once again mention that, in order to borrow, export any antiquities abroad, the provisions of archaeological law 3028/2002 are necessarily respected. It can't be done differently. The archaeological law is not replaced. It replaces where we have brought the amendments. So don't try to create impressions. And, above all, not hypocrisy with archaeological law. I have had the honour of chairing almost two years in the preparatory committee of the archaeological law, which finally took the number 3028/2002. At that time, when he was introduced by the then Minister of Culture, Evangelos Venizelos, exactly the same thing you said, that the 5351/1932 should not change, because the country will be destroyed because we are selling everything. So no more hypocrisy with the archaeological law. I had decided not to even speak of the order of the Brandenburg Museum because these provisions were withdrawn. But because I heard several times invoked my dead, dead friends, people who honored me with their personal relationship, and Kundurus was and Dassen was also Angelos Delivorias and Rura Sifnaios, I would like to say that, so these people never beg to take any office. They were extremely decent not to demand that they be presidents in a club, in a museum. In addition, the Ministry of Culture either in 2017 in 2018 or 2019 or 2020 did not receive a gift from the company "ARTIPELAGOS". The Brandenburg Museum is what you said. No one disputes it, but they don't give him gifts. Especially now the Ministry of Culture does not accept presents. So the company "ARCHIPELAGOS" came with the president and asked the Ministry of Culture to bear all the operational expenses of the museum, because they could not cover them. From there on - as the articles have been tabled -, in the old Article 50 which was removed, deleted, deleted, the Minister of Culture appointed two members, the president and his alternate along with a second member. These two members were appointed by the Minister of Culture and two members by the company "ARCHIPELAGOS" with its alternates. In other words, there was an absolute parity. In fact, I agreed to say that one member nominated as "ARCHIPELAGOS" would be the President and the second member would be someone who would be chosen by the company. From there on Mr Sifunakis could be appointed President by the decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport. However, it required legislation through a lifelong presidency. This was never done by Angel Delivorias, Nikos Kundouros, Zul Dassen and Rura Sifnaios. Do not invoke them because they are basically disrespectful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u348	We'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u349	As I say numbers, you insist that you do not like them, so I will say about the loss of revenue you come and come. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the request for a roll-call vote p.451a]] In 2015 and 2016 active refreshments in the Archaeological Resources Fund were thirty-five, empty forty-four. In 2017 the active refreshments were twenty-four, the gaps were fifty-six. Among these were the refreshment of Olympia, the Olympian Olympia, the Cape of Thera, Lindos, the Asclipio of Kos, archaeological sites with great visitors. So do not talk about what was happening then and what is happening today in the EDF. I said before - but it seems not clear enough - on the amendment proposed by the Change Movement for the sixth day in the pension of archbishops. I repeat, we honor and fully respect their work. After all, they're our partners. I personally have accepted the law of the request. I cannot, however, take into account the remarks made by my fellow workers and the Minister for Finance. It is a matter to which we shall come back. But the relevant ministries - the Ministry of Culture - do not have responsibility for this - have the floor. Now because the certification process has disturbed too much you are trying to create a climate and just a climate of opposition, again crocodile tears! Who told you that state museums that are public services if they are not certified will be closed? Is that what you understand? Read the setting better. Certification is a process which is applied internationally and in no way means that the person who is not certified will be closed. Do the public services close? How are they going to close them? Public services are these museums. Stop impressing for reasons of opposition, because you have nothing else to say. The rest of the amendment provides for the recognition of the rest of the museums. A process which in any case is provided for by the archaeological law, which you now constantly invoke. As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, I have answered many times in parliamentary scrutiny, in topical questions, the topical question on all the issues of the fund. I'll say it again. The case file has been sent to the criminal courts by your government. So I don't see how I stand in the way of justice. Justice will do its job and we have complete confidence in her. We've said it before at all levels. There are also two opinions from the Legal Board of the State. No one says that the Solidarity Fund is a legal person governed by public law or a legal person governed by private law. Only one of the plenary sessions of the Legal Council of the State raises the question of workers and considers this provision as an anti-constitutional provision. Because we have heard from Mr Vernardakis that we are choosing which opinions we will consult and sign and accept a card, I tell you that both have been accepted. So this is not the issue, which he falsely mentions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that culture is placed at the heart of sustainable development policies, economic, social, environmental, as it provides European societies with economic, migratory, environmental, demographic problems, a holistic development and a humanitarian vision at the same time. It is also known that culture contributes substantially to increasing employment, investing in research and innovation, saving energy resources, improving education, combating poverty and social exclusion, creating high added values and measurable positive external economies due to its interconnection with various branches and services. How does this relate to the draft law that came to the plenary today? Our initiative to adopt these regulations as a whole is not a part of the development policy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Government. It is part of the overall governmental planning for the development of the country's entire cultural stock and the capitalisation of the capacities offered by cultural heritage with a view to contributing to sustainable development and redefining the country's development model with an emphasis on extroversion. Our country also needs a multi-level political narrative, based on data and scientific analysis, to have short-term and medium-term objectives, to be linked to large and small actions, with large and small projects across the territory, to understand the daily lives of its citizens, to be welcomed in the experience of visitors and to be the target and vision of the many outside our borders, but which are part of the day-to-day education and wish to transform this education into an experience. Under the provisions of the draft law, the Archaeological Resources Fund has evolved into a modern development organisation aimed at increasing revenue from the operation of archaeological sites and museums, more efficient and efficient management of resources and more rational distribution of resources in order to support the implementation of cultural policies. The Agency shall remain a legal person governed by public law. In this way, his revenues are directed towards the state budget and the budget of the Ministry of Culture. This makes it possible to finance actions for the protection, promotion and promotion of cultural infrastructures, thus supporting the archaeological service and the Ministry, as well as improving the services provided to visitors Greek and foreigners of archaeological sites and museums. I repeat for once, in order to do all this, we need resources. The effective protection of cultural heritage requires and requires resources. The resources are only secured in a healthy economic environment. Without resources, care for cultural heritage is unrealistic, it stays in the sphere of theory or imagination. The state needs resources to be able to perform its role in the protection, promotion and promotion of Greek culture. In Article 24 of the Charter, culture is recognised by the constitutional legislature as a fundamental human right and a basic social asset. The cultural heritage as its subtotal has a multifaceted and high intellectual, scientific, educational, aesthetic, symbolic and psychological value. It is clear that culture has an extremely strong socio-economic power, as it prophesies and affects almost all aspects of social and productive activity and is therefore an important factor in the economy and society and a factor in both development. The material economic assessment of cultural heritage seems to be still glossing some. It is treated by the Opposition with scepticism, suspicion or even absolute refusal and rejection as unfair, insulting and harmful to the cultural stock, because it is allegedly leading to its defiance and commercialisation. Such an approach, let me say, is now considered unscientific. The cultural heritage does not exist in vitro, is located in a place, connected with a community, attracts visitors, requires maintenance and promotion, causes direct and indirect economic and professional activity, and is inevitably part of the social and economic process. A cultural heritage cut off and isolated from society is a legacy "schooler", if not dead. On the contrary, the more organically integrated it is in society, the more its motives and potential for conservation and promotion are growing, the greater its endogenous value has. This approach is clearly recognised by international conventions as fully compatible and at the same time sustainable for the management of cultural heritage. In this light, the economic and development value of the cultural stock is now taken up and valued not just in money, but in much more complex anthropcentric criteria, as the economic factor is considered to be interconnected with the social, environmental and cultural values which jointly affect a much more holistic and representative criterion of individual and social well-being, reflecting the human development index, Human Development Index. The focus center moves from the objects monuments to humans, their functions and needs, from the mere long-term preservation of cultural heritage to its long-term sustainable use and use. It is no coincidence that the cultural sector has been increasingly an international theme of study and economic science in recent years, as it is now considered to be a distinct economic sector using resources, producing products and services, creating income and jobs, attracting and causing investment and thus acting as a lever for growth. That is why it is officially recognised by international organisations, by the United Nations, UNESCO, OSCE, the World Bank as the fourth pillar of sustainable development. As a catalyst of innovative developments in industry and the service sector, it has an important place in the Europe 2020 strategy as it strengthens the European Union's international competitiveness, promoting its cognitive and cultural diversity. The crucial contribution of culture to the national and European gross domestic product, and even with an annual increase significantly greater than that of other sectors of the economy, is derived from reliable statistics showing that investing in the exploitation of cultural capital is of high added value and multiplier effects on culture-related external economies. Investment in culture brings strong support and impetus to employment both in the area of cultural heritage and in the areas of creative industries and related and dependent activities primarily of tourism with which culture maintains a very strong cross-sectoral relationship. One of the aims of the new organisation is to upgrade the quality of the tourist product. The GDP of Greek citizens is directly linked to tourism. The new organization and cultural tourism are directly intertwined. Cultural tourism builds on the comparative advantage of the European continent as its main destination, creates cultural routes that highlight monuments, rescue and promote intangible heritage, incorporates new 'green' practices, enriches the tourist product with inputs and interfunctionalities from the cultural creative industries. Here too, the new organisation, the new SSP can and must have a catalytic role. The attraction and maintenance of tourist flows requires the creation of specific attraction resources both national and local, and their continuous development and upgrading and, of course, their management over time with a plan and perspective. This is to create the Ministry of Culture today and manage the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources. We must not forget that all the countries based on tourism, particularly the Mediterranean, have in principle common characteristics, age-long and rich history, which translates into equally rich and multifaceted cultural heritage, rich and varied natural landscapes in which the sea and marine element hold a central place, a tourism product that is focused on the particular combination of natural and cultural environments as appropriate. The high attractiveness of this tourist product in the present and its long-term further development and viability have as an undeniable need and a necessary treaty to achieve differentiation from competition, to highlight and maintain a distinct and identifiable identity, to provide services of high quality, but also to lasting enrichment and to renew the overall experience offered to visitors. In this internationally prevailing "economy of experiences" culture offers just those experiences that enrich and diversify crucially and the tourist product making it the most attractive and most competitive not only on the international but also on the domestic market. Archaeological sites and historical sites, individual ancient and newer monuments, museums with collections of mobile monuments and works of art and related infrastructures linked to the various material aspects and functions of the cultural heritage are one aspect of cultural experience. Traditional events and activities, local customs, customs, gastronomical habits are some of the elements of the most dynamic and experiential intangible heritage, which are also usually in close relationship and interaction with modern forms of artistic and creative expression by composing the other aspect of cultural experience. All this composes the aims and objectives of the new organisation. Total tourist flows in recent years, of course, before the violent and abrupt interruption that has brought about - we hope temporarily - the pandemic crisis has, as you know, brought about a significant increase. However, despite the quantitative leap, the quality elements of special measurements and research on the visitability of sites of cultural heritage in relation to the specific characteristics, expectations and satisfaction of the common analogue country show the need to modify the consolidated concepts and practices both in terms of public investment and in terms of the overall way in which cultural resources are managed, if we really want the leap to become a qualitative one. Recent research demonstrates the need for a comprehensive change, for example, with the emphasis on shifting from continuous infrastructure creation and management to continuous service creation and management. We must move on to more bold and, at the same time, more holistic and comprehensive strategies for the management of cultural resources, which will achieve the maximum possible multiplier effect and economies of scale. We must open up the traditional fortresses and the dynamic linking of cultural heritage with modern culture and creative industries, as well as with combined and complementary operation with other sectors of tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole draft law we are debating today does not ignore the fact that culture and cultural heritage, as its sub-total, constitute a social, public asset. At the same time, culture and cultural heritage are also public capital with enormous developmental value and dynamics. Greece is internationally recognised as a capital force in the area of cultural heritage. We consider it imperative to promote Greek culture throughout the world. Culture policies may contribute decisively to the redefinition of the country's identity. We are dealing with culture as a whole as an export product and we adopt international good practices. Redefining and modernising the country's production model to make it effective, competitive and ultimately sustainable in the highly volatile international environment is crucial. There are no more delusionals. This can only be achieved by knowledge, innovation, the emergence and development of our country's comparative advantages, with extroversion. That is why we are seeking extroversion and culture. The non-exploitation of the country's huge advantage, the capital of cultural heritage, due to obsolete perceptions and ideological strugglings, is, in particular, an unforgivable inertia, but criminal negligence, which, on the one hand, deprives society and the country of valuable resources and, on the other, leads rapidly to the depreciation and extinction of its own cultural heritage. I can assure you that this government will not become accomplices either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is adjourned: "Reorganization of the archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund and renamed "Organisation of Cultural Resources", promotion of cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the Museum of "Phovos Anogianakis" and other provisions. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote of SYRIZA Members on Articles 48, 56, 58 and 650/23 of the Ministerial Amendment, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u351	I will not read out the list of signatories for a roll-call vote. In view of the special circumstances, we consider that there is the figure required by the Rules of Procedure for it. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10) minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 48, 56, 58 and 650/23 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u353	I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u354	Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 299 Members voted. Article 48: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, the 120 Members voted against. 'PARON', 22 MPs voted. Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 56: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 179 Members. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 110 Members. 'PARON', 10 MPs voted. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 58: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 142 Members. "PARON", voted no one. Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. The Ministerial Amendment under a general number of 650 and a special number 23: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 179 Members. Against this article, the 120 Members voted against. "PARON" voted no one. The Ministerial Amendment under a general number of 650 and a special number 23 were therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u356	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the principle, the rest of the articles, amendments and the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in principle, with the rest of the articles, amendments, the nominated article and the entire bill in order to be included in the Parliament's official minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u357	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Reorganisation of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund and renamed it to an Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, promotion of cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the Museum of Phoevos Anogianakis’ and other provisions’ were accepted in principle, Articles and all of it by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u358	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u359	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 5 October 2020 (Morning), Tuesday 6 October 2020 (Morning), Wednesday 7 October 2020, Friday 9 October 2020 and Monday 12 October 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u360	The Minutes of Monday 5 October 2020 (Morning), Tuesday 6 October 2020 (Morning), Wednesday 7 October 2020, Friday 9 October 2020 and Monday 12 October 2020 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-10-S1-commons.u361	With the consent of the House at 22.11 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, December 11, 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate, and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the draft law: ‘State budget for the financial year 2021’.
