ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 2-4-2020 authorization, the minutes of the PLAC Session of Thursday, April 2, 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring a) of 25.2.20 P.M. "Preventing measures to avoid and limit the proliferation of coronary virus" (A' 42), (b) of 11.3.20 P.C. "Assisting measures to address the negative consequences of the occurrence of the COVID -19 coronary and the need to limit its spread" (A 55) and (c) of 14.3.20 BC. "Association of measures to address the need to limit COVID-19 dispersion (A'64) and other provisions."]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the reports to this House. They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, and MP B3 of the South Athens Sector of SYRIZA the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u2	I have some communications to make to this House: The Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Justice, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism, State and the Deputy Prime Minister, submitted on 3-4-20 a draft law: ‘Following measures to address the consequences of the coronary risk of spreading, supporting society and entrepreneurship and ensuring the smooth functioning of the market and public administration and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of Parliament 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary and Part II'. Also, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submit their report to the Ministry of Health's draft law: "Follow it from 20.3.20 BC. "Association of measures to address the consequences of the COVID -19 spread risk, support for society and entrepreneurship and ensure the smooth functioning of the market and public administration" (A'68) and other provisions."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS After completing the reading of the petitions, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, that on Wednesday, April 8, 2020, the presence of the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Staikos is impossible to present to us in current questions on the grounds of blockage, a meeting with representatives of the European institutions." The topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Questions Nos 610/2-24-20 and 615/3-2420 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. Question No 613/344/20 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Question No 612/3-24-20 will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr Panagiotis (Noti) Metarakis. Questions Nos 616/6-4-2020 and 621/6-4-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. Question No 617/6-6-4-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Psulakakis. Question No 626/6-64/20 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis The fourth question under number 610/2-24-20 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Revengement of damages for the scandal'. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Villarde, you have the floor for two minutes to start with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin by pointing out that all the Ministries, which we have asked written questions about the scandal, have avoided answering, claiming that it is not their responsibility, as is yours at the outset. On this matter now. The 'Diselgate' scandal concerns the deception of governments and consumers around the world, initially from 'VOLKSWAGEN', but ultimately from the whole of Germany's automobile industry, with the establishment of a software which has delusionalised the exhaust emissions controls of their cars. Apart from cheating the authorities and consumers on emissions of pollutants, however, fraud also related to the sale of cars under a favourable tax regime, which was not entitled to cars on the basis of actual emissions of pollutants. After the scandal, the United States claimed compensation from VOLKSWAGEN in judicial proceedings, which are estimated to amount to more than EUR 25 billion in both the state and consumers. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Canada also imposed a fine of 136 million. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. So, by analogy, with twenty-four thousand four hundred forty-five 'VW', 'AUDI', 'SKODA' and 'SEAT' in Greece - I will submit it in the Minutes - the state can impose a fine of up to EUR 30 million. However, we would claim much more, because climate change, if the thinking of the European Union is the case, burdens more countries with a warm climate, such as Greece, and deprives them of water, of crops, at risk of desertification. As we know, the European Union has not prosecuted and imposed centrally fines, referring the matter to the Member States. Germany also claims compensation, although much smaller than the United States, while reassessing the use of gasoline cars. VOLKSWAGEN has already agreed to pay EUR 1 billion in the Land of Lower Saxony, while ‘AUDI’ 800 million in the state of Bavaria. In Greece we do not know that there is a state claim for compensation. In a recent study by the European Union, our country is criticised by the European Court of Auditors for not imposing fines, and disciplinary proceedings against it have started, as well as for the Czech Republic, but which produces part of these cars for Lithuania. I shall table this, too, in the Minutes. From an answer to a similar question from the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Papaggiopoulou, which we will present in the Minutes, it appears that the case at the court level has been filed with the decision of the Attorney-General of Athens from 1-6-2018. Is that really true? Our questions here are as follows: First of all, how is it possible to put a case in the file, which abroad produces so many fines? Is there a question of charging liability to control services? Do you intend to re-examine the claim for compensation from the State? If so, what is the procedure to be followed, the timetable and the amount you will claim? Secondly, what will you do in relation to the intention of the European Union to initiate procedures against our country for not claiming compensation? Do you intend to cooperate with other judicial authorities internationally to exchange information on claiming compensation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u6	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. There was never any intention of avoiding it, but to answer a question in this House, we must first have to say specific things and what we say is true, because this is a House and we cannot say things that do not stand. As far as the European position is concerned, I read the answer we received from the relevant committee of the European Union: 'It is not clear to us what the legal basis of the European Union invoked by the Greek Parliament would allow the Greek Government or its administrations to demand compensation from VOLKSWAGEN in the case of the 'Diselgate' scandal. Indeed, as far as we know, there is neither such a law, nor under European Union consumer protection legislation, nor under its press law. In the absence of this information, we can observe that Greek governmental local administrations can use their existing administrative powers to put an end to breach of the Consumer Protection Act or pressurisation legislation on a case-by-case basis. Certain national provisions may allow such administrations or environmental administrations to claim compensation directly or to bring an action against the company in a civil, commercial or criminal court according to the category of the offence in Greece and require compensation for the consumers concerned for the damage caused.’; So what you have claimed is that the European Union resigns us because we do not fine it is not true. It's false. On the contrary, the European Union must tell you, according to the official response I have received from the agency, that the smuggling done by VOLKSWAGEN, for which the United States of America is accused, only concerns emissions of nitrogen oxides during testing of pollutants in the laboratory. This is which the suspension mechanism, the suspension software, showed lower. I repeat, emissions of nitrogen oxides. However, the provision for specific emissions of nitrogen oxides does not exist in either Greek or European legislation. There's only a ceiling. In particular, the limits of the quantities emitted in the USA must not exceed 0,043 grams per kilogram, whereas the current European standards euro5 and Euro6 provide that the corresponding limits must not exceed 0,18. What's that supposed to mean? It will say that because even with normal emissions of nitrogen oxide the specific vehicles ‘VOLKSWAGEN’ do not exceed 0,18, this has led the European Commission not to withdraw the certification euro5, i.e. as environmentally friendly vehicles, of the specific vehicles ‘VOLKSWAGEN’. So what does the European Union say? Yes, there was probably software that reduced emissions of nitrogen oxides, that is, they were being taken closer or lower to the limit that the United States has, which have a lower limit than the European Union, but the limit of 0.18 was no higher than that. Therefore, they do not lose their certificate and all benefits as environmentally friendly vehicles. That's why, as the agency keeps me informed here. Apparently, all of what you said about fines you've collected from the Internet. I'll give you the answer. There is no official fine or fine imposed by any Member State of the European Union to date. The only thing that exists officially and is in the decision - I will present it to you - is a decision of the Court of Venice, where it considered it unacceptable to collective action by the consumer union against VOLKSWAGEN Italy. In other words, the request, Mr President, for a fine has been rejected. Why was he rejected now? I'm going to explain it more in my dentistry, because here's our legal problem. Maybe that's why he said what Mr. Papagelopoulos said at the time. To God, I don't want to defend Mr. Papagelopoulos for obvious reasons. Get away from me this. But we are now talking about the legal basis. What would be the only legal basis for Greece, a Greek court, a Greek government, a consumer association to claim compensation from VOLKSWAGEN in Greece, since the European Union still applies the certificate of environmental vehicles and the European Union says that they remain environmentally friendly and do not concern us that they were smuggling? It is only one thing: the misleading of the consumer. We have no other provision. Whether or not there was a misunderstanding of the consumer in order to have a right to compensation, I will tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there was no intention. To God, I didn't say you had any intentions. Secondly, with regard to what you said with the European Union, I have a report here. I only have the first page and the part that Greece is accused of. I'll ask you to read it. It's about twenty-five pages. You'll understand that I'm right about what I'm saying. And that is what Europe is saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u9	For ‘Diselgate’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u10	For ‘Diselgate’. I'll leave it to you. It's about 20 pages. I've got the first page and someone else. You will see the category of Greece. Thirdly, Germany has also imposed fines on ‘VOLKSWAGEN’ and received money. So logically, what you said about Europe is not true, how much more about Greece. With regard to the last thing you said about the Internet, I think it is insulting. I never get information from the Internet. I always get classified information from the relevant bodies. I never do that kind of thing. With regard to the rest, I would like to refer to the level of consumers you have mentioned. I inform you that the Greek court has already tried EUR 5,200 per owner, which I will also table in the Minutes and is also an official document. So with some twenty-four thousand forty-five cars, according to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport's answer to Mr Amyras's question from 13 February 2019 -- I think it is your MP - they can claim around EUR 106 million. But the Ministry of Trade's Trade Department as a written answer to our question claimed that there is no breach of consumer protection legislation. I will also submit it to the Minutes. At the same time, however, the Polish Consumers' Counselor recently fined VOLKSWAGEN only 'VOLKSWAGEN' for defrauding consumers in this regard - I will also present it in the Minutes - despite the fact that the German industry has a factory there. Our questions now in denture are as follows: Are you going to take steps to inform and facilitate Greek consumers in claiming compensation from the German automotive industry? Obviously, you know that the legal way for private individuals is time-consuming and cost-consuming, while their claim is filed after the expiry of five years of their car purchase. So you have to hurry. Secondly, do you intend to rethink any responsibilities with regard to the protection of consumers and the health of the population against emissions? There are many studies on the fact that the urban environment is very burdensome. Finally, what measures have you taken to prevent consumers and the public from being cheated on by such companies, whether German or other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be right back. What I'm going to read to you, I'm going to testify to you. It's from the service. "Addressing the matter from the countries of the European Union: From the countries of the European Union for which we have been informed..." is written by the agency "... on how they assessed this case, only an Italian Competition Authority imposed an administrative fine on the companies "VOLKSWAGEN" and "VOLKSWAGEN GRUPO ITALIA", while the competent authority of Germany informed us that it might refer the case to the court under the law of unfair competition. However, until the date of the present pension, this had not yet been decided. The Italian authorities’ decision has been challenged by VOLKSWAGEN in the Italian courts. Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, United Kingdom, Ireland, Iceland, Malta, Norway, the Netherlands, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland replied that they did not assess the case any further.' In other words, the 'Diselgate' case for 'VOLKSWAGEN' has been closed in these countries. The Ukrainian antitrust authority also replied to us that it withdrew all objections against 'VOLKSWAGEN'. The papers from the European press have informed us that the Luxembourg Minister for Infrastructure has filed a complaint against strangers, starting a criminal procedure, but not an administrative one, with regard to the VolkSWAGEN scandal. So they're looking for who from the company did this. As far as judicial decisions are concerned, we have one of the Venice Courts which I told you before, which found that collective action by an association of consumers is unacceptable. We also have a decision from the German Regional Tribunal, where the distributor's responsibility was excluded on the basis of this independence. All this is on the basis of this judgment of the German Court. All of these things I'm presenting to you in the Minutes, so you can have them. They're official answers. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also come to the legal question, in order to understand why we cannot impose fines on 'VOLKSWAGEN'. Because we've come up with that we can't. First of all, who are in our country? Is the VOLKSWAGEN acting directly? No, distributors, dealers buying 'VOLKSWAGEN' cars and selling them are active. Can distributors' responsibility in this regard be based on this? The legal service response is 'no'. That's what the German court's decision says. And the Venice court ruling says that the distributor sells it to you good faith. COSMOCAR, for example, cannot intervene in the car that brings you from Germany. As he gets it from the 'VOLKSWAGEN' he sells it, he sells it to the consumer. So he, good faith in selling and therefore has no responsibility for whether "VOLKSVAGEN" has made this poaching. Could a consumer association or Greece now go collectively as a government, as an anti-VOLKSWAGEN German, in other words go directly to the parent company? The answer to the question is 'no'. Why is the answer 'no'? Because I told you that the specific thing that VOLKSWAGEN has done is not provided for in Greek legislation. In other words, there is no measurement from either CTEO or from anyone for nitrogen oxide. They don't count it. It's a gray zone for Europe. What does European legislation say? Greek legislation does not say at all. European legislation says 'You must have a ceiling of 0.18'. Were those cars under the ceiling? It was. What was the poaching? It was that America has a lower limit and that system went lower. But for Europe it is not a violation. It would be an infringement and there would be compensation if the European Commission were to remove the environmentally friendly vehicle certificate from the VOLKSWAGEN in this type, so that then we would say as a state that, since you were not an environmentally friendly vehicle, all the tax benefits you had are illegal. Since, however, it maintains the certificate for Europe as well as for environmentally friendly vehicles, then the benefits they have are right to them. So we're in a legal weakness. What have we done these days? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm hanging up with this. We searched for the General Secretariat of Consumers and received - because this was the only other legal way out in Greece - to see if, in the ads of 'VOLKSWAGEN' in Greece or its distributors, they included in the various things they were saying and emissions of nitrogen dioxide, so that we could say we could impose a fine on the basis of the logic of consumer misleading. I must inform you - and that is all in answer - that anywhere in Greece, or on the Internet or on the Internet, it has not even been advertised by a distributor of 'VOLKSWAGEN' or by 'VOLKSWAGEN' itself, the low emissions of nitrogen dioxide. Therefore, the Greek consumer has not fooled him under Greek law. Since he hasn't been fooled, he can't be asked for compensation. For all these reasons, then, we consider that there is no way - our Government certainly not, as a state - of course, have the right to do so by those who want it. But they won't have any luck in a Greek court. They would have to find advertising for 'VOLKSWAGEN' in Greece which told them that this car has these emissions of nitrogen dioxide. Then they would have to prove that they have been misled and that they were other emissions of nitrogen dioxide. And then that could be measured as compensation. Once the 'VOLKSWAGEN' in Greece did not sell - I say quite simply - the low emissions of nitrogen dioxide as one of the advantages of these vehicles, the service assumes that there is no compensation right. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fourth under the number 615/3-24-2020 topical question from the Deputy State of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject of "New Economic Model in the midst of the Koroni Crisis". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u14	I will only add a little more to the previous ones that Poland is a European Union country, so for it to be imposed there, there will be something there. And secondly, I have tabled a Greek court ruling in the case of 5,200 euros. So there is a ruling in the Greek courts and we can claim it. Now on the next topic, I would like to ask you, first of all, to stop this inflation of consumers and not of productive measures initiated by your Government, assisted by the Civic Opposition. It is a bid that reminds us of the'money there are' by Mr Papandreou, which we all know is the situation that has led us to this. Certainly a country such as our own, indebted to the neck, with a failed economic model that remains as it stands, despite the fact that it has led us to the excessive debt of 2009 and the bankruptcy of 2012, cannot adopt measures for the pandemic that we experience like Germany or other richer countries, much more by consuming the reservoirs of public agencies and with new borrowings that will be called on to pay our children, with the possibility of another memorandum, if that is how it will continue, greater than ever. How rather with the problems in tourism, where on the basis of the conservative forecasts of the World Tourism Organisation and not the terrorist, horrifying OECD, the fall in revenues will be of 30%, so they may reduce our GDP, directly and indirectly, by EUR 11 billion or by 5.5%. In my question now, our economy has basically stopped, locked up the country, and we need basic medical consumables, such as antiseptics, masks, protective costumes, gloves and respirators. You have rightly started importing ethyl alcohol - we have proposed it too - but it can and must be produced in our country from beet, for example, in the Greek Sugar Industry. I'll submit it to the Minutes. This is what happens in Serbia if I'm not mistaken. We can also produce masks after we produce raw cotton and export it, as well as plastic gloves, costumes and respirators. In this regard, countries such as Great Britain and the United States demanded their industries to produce such products, and free production plans were granted which some states, such as Egypt, used them. I will also submit it to the Minutes. It's not from the Internet. One-dimensional focus, in our view, is on tourism, casinos and facilities such as "Greek"! We have several infrastructures of this kind and we do not need any more. My questions now, really without any opposition criticism, are we trying to contribute to the Greek economy: Firstly, did you ask the Greek industries through BSE and with the help of higher education institutions or from state industries to produce medical equipment in quantities that meet domestic needs? If not, why? You don't think there's any potential? I am thinking here of how President McCron in France has asked for the production of these materials to be carried out domestically - I will put it in the Minutes - and for future pandemics or for anything else that comes out so that his country can be self-sufficient. Secondly, what steps do you plan to take to ensure that, in the short term, this summer, there is a satisfactory supply of the country with the main priority species? Food producers, processing in general and industry, who have lost customers from exports, must be supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u16	I'll be done in two minutes. Jobs need to be created for inert tourist labour in other sectors, in this case primary production or where there are needs elsewhere. Due to the restrictions on movement and the fear that the crops will remain in the fields, Spain has already taken measures the other day. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Are we going to run behind the facts again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you will allow me to ask you a question on this occasion, because you are here and I see the Secretary of State for Finance behind it. I'm telling you so you won't say anything different. Look, for the measures you're taking, there's one thing I want to put it to you. There are support measures, because you put them on, for the workers who work. Apart from workers, you need to know that in small businesses - I think you know it and you understand it, but I do not see any clarification - there are people who are company partners and who work in it. So, when it's an administrator and partner and it pays and daily is taxed or anything else, who works in this business? These people work. So I think you should see in small businesses that these people should have the right to enter these measures. I am sure that we will now find a solution so that we can resolve this issue as well. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, it is indeed a matter that you raise. In the repayable advance, because the central philosophy was the maintenance of jobs, one to a certain number of workers are predicted. Indeed, there are small businesses in which the owner, the partner, is also an employee at the same time. That's something we'll see with the Minister. We're talking about the repayable advance now. That is the question of the business you're talking about, but we're not going to solve this right now. I mean, we've discussed this intra-government. Let me just say, Mr President, that all we live is unprecedented and many things are resolved along the way. I come to my dear colleague. First of all, let me make it clear when I said you got it off the internet, I didn't say it disgraceful. I in the House have asked questions many times, and I've been out of the internet. I'm saying it's not to misunderstand that he had some other character. A Member of Parliament, of course, can also get from the Internet and may request clarification from the government. That is why this procedure exists. I also do not want to say that you should not have opposition criticism. Our democracy works, there is government and opposition, and criticism is very welcome. Even if she is well - trusted, she can be very useful. So there's no disagreement either. Now let's go to what's going on, first. I mean, Mr President, that there is a concern test for the great recession that we have in 2020, because we must have no doubt that 2020 will be a year of recession, I believe that anyone with an elementary logic understands that. Now, whether it's gonna be big, medium or small, today I don't know either you, either. The main reason we don't know is why we don't know the course of this phenomenon. If the virus, well in place, is weakened in April, in May, quarantine measures are lifted and worldwide there is a reverse course, apparently the recession will be much smaller. If this virus continues in May and June and July, it will obviously be much bigger. So today we're talking, a prophet to be, you don't know what's gonna happen. We're waiting to see where this phenomenon will arrive. But it's not all negative. First of all, I'm starting with the big picture, the serious one, which is health. Listen, Mr Colleague, don't tell me what one country is doing and what another country is doing. Greece is doing fine so far and wood to beat, keep going like this. Yesterday was a black day for the Western world. France mourned over a thousand four hundred dead in one day. The United States reached almost two thousand in a day.I doubt they had so dead in World War II. So when those countries you mentioned have this image and we are yesterday with two dead in the thousand four hundred, in the two thousand, in the eight hundred in Spain, in the seven hundred in Italy, we understand that something good has been done in Greece to be that way. Not with the government, but with the Greek people who have disciplined, following the instructions of doctors, Mr Tsiodra and the others, and we can now say that Greece is a safe country. And you see that Greeks abroad are trying to find a way to come to Greece. While, Mr. Colleague, at the beginning of the 2010 crisis, they said: "They go abroad to save us," we are now on the reverse: "We have to find a plane to go back to Greece to save us." So we have to say a good thing in this Greece and in this people that we are doing something well. Now we're going to finance. Yesterday we had a very good news, as you know it, and it makes me impression that you didn't mention it. Greece has officially entered the normal programme of quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. What does that mean for the question you asked me? It means that the Greek banking system and the Greek state have access to markets and lending as if we were already in investment. In other words, we spent last night in a few minutes a distance that separated us from our rating houses for the next two and a half years, because so much we would need to get to an investment grade. What does that mean? It means that our banks have access to cheap money and, therefore, our businesses to cheaper borrowing. So we have a much more prosperous perspective for the next day. As far as the model you say is concerned, I am not in agreement with you or I will not renounce tourism. Yes, obviously it will be a bad tourist year this year and possibly the next year, if the virus continues. But all of this may be lifted. If there's a medicine in May that can be, what we're talking about right now can be changed. So, don't go paint everything black and say 'our offspring'. Oh, no. We also need tourism. We will rebuild our tourism, and I will tell you in my dentext, because we as the Ministry of Development believe in the favourable scenario, not in the extremely favourable way of finding the medicine, that the rise in temperature will lead to the weakening of the virus, which is the basic scenario of infectious agents. This year's tourist season won't be as lost as many people think. I'm going to say one last thing about the OECD, because it played a lot on the Internet. Good are titles as sites, just read the exhibition. The OECD report is based only on an indicator, the restaurant closure index, and it has to do with the impact on the tourist chain and the focus industry. So, in this particular indicator, Greece actually has a very large drop, 35% per month of closure, not 35% per year, in this indicator. Calm down. The economy is more complicated and I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u19	Of course, Minister, before I give the floor, you know that small businesses with one and two partners are at least 20%. Evaluate that, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u20	I'll start by saying something about the Treasury. There are other cases which are not taken into account. There are people who work part-time work who work in two companies where one has been closed, the other is not, their wages are low, so they cannot get this allowance paid by the government. Perhaps this should also be taken care of by the Ministry of Finance, of course. As far as this piece of medicine is concerned, you know I'm not a doctor. I focused on the economy. You're right we're doing good in all this. Of course, we're not the best country. If we look at the issue of cases in relation to death, we see that there are countries better than we do. We are, however, going quite well, and that is important for tourism too. It will certainly help not to lose the entire tourist season. In relation to tourism, I did not say at all that we should be against tourism. For God's sake! I just said that we have a lot of dependence, an overdependence on tourism, and that thing has to stop. Greece depends 21% of GDP on tourism and the second country, Spain and Italy, is around 13% -14%. I think that would be a right target for us to go. I would now like a second request to withdraw Article 6 of the MDG on the occasion we are debating tomorrow, that is to say, the use of the EUR 5 billion from the Public Investment Programme, which is just EUR 6.75 billion, for the use of aid measures for enterprises. Something else needs to be found, since the Public Investment Programme for development needs to be used and not as a financial injection of liquidity. I would like here to supplement for our success yesterday in the participation of Greek securities in the QUE programme of the European Central Bank that it is perhaps an opportunity to postpone proper auctioning yesterday and, at the same time, to impose lower charges on banks than those very high in relation to Europe that they have today. In any case, we must now, at last, be interested in the production of wealth, income and not just expenditure, since, in all your programme, we see only expenditure and no interest, no revenue measure. Now in addition to our country's urgent needs due to the Coronovirus crisis, we are faced with the weakening of our productive fabric - this has been happening for a long time now, it is nothing new - in the primary sector where we have trade deficits in manufacturing and industry, where only 8% of our GDP is produced against the European Union's target at 20% on average. So we are doomed to low productivity, low wages and well-known Brain Drain, since our educated young people don't find work. Deindustrialisation has taken place over the last few decades without taking any measures to prevent it and we still do not take such measures, so that our economy is not competitive, that it does not produce surpluses in the current account and that we need more and more. At the same time, we have a large number of devalued public industries. I will mention, for example, ‘LARCO’, ELVO, EAB, AS, Scaramaga Shipyards, the Greek Sugar Industry and others. Our position is that both the public and profitable companies, such as PPC, IPTO, DEDDIE, PDP, ELPE and so on, should not be sold, let alone all the state companies be sold out because of mismanagement, but remain the property of the public sector, so that there is a balance with the private sector and the state should not be blackmailed. This is what other states, such as Germany, Italy and China, do. You don't want comparisons, but we have to do them. Our questions here are as follows: Is there a new production model that promotes growth from manufacturing and industry? If there is, will some state-owned companies join the above? Secondly, what objective have you set in terms of industry's participation in growth and GDP? 20% considered by the European Union or by someone else? Is there a timeframe if you have set a target? Finally, what funds do you intend to make available for these actions if they are within your objectives and where will you draw them from? Are you expecting reactions from the European Union to possible support domestic production at the usual request of the subsidy and have you taken your measures? If possible, give me an answer which is more technocratic and less political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u22	Mr Colleague, I repeat that good criticism is very welcome. You think no profitable businesses are given and you're talking about a number of businesses. You put PPC among them. I don't know if you understood or said it by mistake. I want to remind you that last year PPC had 1 billion losses, if I remember correctly. I repeat: EUR 1 billion. If you want to have a reasonable people debate and say that you must not sell profitable businesses, in fact, put down the accounts of companies, see what is profitable and discuss which are profitable and which are not. So this is a debate of reasonable people, and there should also be an ideological difference. However, if we are talking about a company that has 1 billion euros, 1000 million euros, I am sorry, but this is a debate that I cannot do in this House, because it is based on illogical grounds. So let us agree on the basics, what is damage, what is profit in a business, and then solve our ideological, whether or not we need to be privatized. I will tell you straight away that, of course, there must be militarizations. You give me the list and you have the Greek Sugar Industry. Don't you know that the Greek Sugar Industry is totally bankrupt? Do you not know that last time they paid 10 millions of Panagiotis Lafazanis, which are the European Commission's state aid? Don't you know that a court ruling was made under Article 106 under bankruptcy law? Excuse me now. For a business that's made a court ruling that she's bankrupt with the bolus, we're talking here about not selling the diamond of the crown? Do not jeopardize your seriousness with such nonsense. It is clear from the companies that you said nine out of ten are extremely damaging, such as, as a rule, public enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u23	I wish we could sell them, but who buys them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u24	Our problem is - does Mr. Vorides say so - that we can't find a buyer? You son of a bitch can't find it, not this one to give them. Well, now we go to this because for the Greek Sugar Industry, I remind you that we received from the previous government an investor you had brought from abroad was supposed to give it, Mr. Pitsorlas had prepared the relevant agreement, he knows it, Mr. Vorides knows it, and the investor proved to have a black cheque of thirty thousand euros and he didn't have a single euro that you wanted to sell to him. Leave me now! Don't be scratched now in the gala of choppany, what we've been through!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u25	See, Minister... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u26	Let's go now and tell you about the medical materials that I didn't answer to my prototype. First of all, I repeat, do not be miserable with the successes of the country. Our country is compared with countries within the European Union of about the same economic profile and population. What countries do we compare? We compare Belgium, the Netherlands, with Portugal. These are the countries that compare with Greece. Now look at the "GOOGLE" to see where these countries are and where Greece is and make your cross you are here! That's what this is about. As far as medical materials are concerned, haven't you been to a supermarket in the last few days to see that you're now finding antiseptics? How do you find the antiseptics? Magic have antiseptics been found in supermarkets? First of all, you helped. You said about medical materials to produce oil. So I say to you that with initiatives taken by the Government, and in particular the Ministry of Development - and I am proud to say this, and I also thank Mr Papathanassis in particular, my Deputy Minister, who worked very hard for this - we went domestic production of the two hundred thousand pieces a day before the crisis and this week we are more than a million. I mean, within a month, we've doubled domestic production. That's not what you like to say. Let's talk about the masks now. The masks are more complicated. It's not that we haven't dealt with each other. On the contrary. We've even been to factories to start producing masks in Greece. But, as you know, this is a sanitary material and to produce it a factory must have the same certification, because the other one will put it on his face. It's not just a mask to make it look like he's wearing a mask. The mask must protect him. And there's got to be someone responsible to tell us that this mask that protects him. That can't be from one day to the next. There's a procedure. The truth about the masks is that the capacity of domestic production is relatively small compared to the real needs we will have. Nevertheless, the market there has been fairly smoothed down and some serious imports have been made. Of course, Mr President, in order not to be fooled, you have seen what has been done in various countries on the planet that stops health material at the airport, at the port of the other country, because there is actually a great international competition on these materials, which have become the hottest and most useful materials for humanity now we are living in. So in medical materials the government has intervened as much as it can. Let me say that the Ministry of Health has intervened, as has the Ministry of National Defence, and we produce masks and antiseptics in factories in the Greek army, mainly for the needs of hospitals. So that's where the state is. I should also like to say that, with the amendment that we voted on - and was unanimously supported - and we authorised production to companies licensed to produce medicines and cosmetics, cosmetics companies and companies from the Greek pharmaceutical industry, for antiseptics and for masks, have entered. So in everything you said, the government has already answered before you for you. We're so fast. Let me tell you one last thing. As to the economic model that is serious, listen. This crisis is certainly an opportunity to discuss the country's economic model in the long term. And I will accept that overdependence on tourism is a distortion for our economy. Not that we don't want tourism. We want him tourism. We have said long before the crisis as a Ministry of Development that we need to build the industry. That is why, if you have seen, we made R & D before the crisis, a specialist for industry, which was not there, and we have guided R & D resources for the first time only for industry, because it is indeed only tourism that is not enough. To close, though, I'll say something. At this point in time, you should know, today in what we are living, there is no, Mr Colleague, any sector of the economy that has not been affected. I'll just say one thing. I won't say a name of business, 'cause the man might not want to. I was taken by a food producer, who had at the same time an amazing company - to have it and to have it - who exported to the Balkans - was an exporter, namely - he had shops at airports to buy tourists, retailers and craftsmen to sell to shops and catering areas. I mean, he's got a full risk spread. He's got all the markets. Now, at the same time, the Balkans market closes, stop the airports, stop the restaurants and stays out of the whole business. That is, where we are, know whatever economic model you have, whatever you have - unless you live in a country that produces only masks and antiseptics - you will have damage, because what we are going through as human beings is an unprecedented size and an unprecedented scale. But it must make us wiser and quieter and civilised how to make our next day better. We believe that the measures taken by the government and the economic level for the stage we are facing are right and have brought calm to the market. I'm hanging up with this. There is a public debate that I accept in good faith whether we should add more or less, which the President of the Civilian Responsibility also raised, but this debate today has a problem. To decide how much you have to spend and when, you need to know the account. Today, the main problem in the exercise is that we don't know the account, because we don't know when it's going to end. So, today, our opinion is that wise tactics are: "Go easy, see where this thing will be closed, and when you've got an account, you're going to do the interventions you have to." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u27	I would just like to remind you of a number that we need to know, namely that tourism between 2009 and 2019 brought EUR 150 billion to the country. I'm just reminding you. The second question under number 617/6-4-2020 will now be discussed in the second question of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Do the Government intend to implement an integrated plan to halt the impact of the crisis not excluding productive and vulnerable groups?' The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u28	Minister, in order not to be blamed by the dear friend who just left and answered all the questions concerning the Minister of Agriculture, away from me and from us, zeroing. We do not close the measures for workers and businesses. Many of these measures were also our proposals. We recast them, welcomed them publicly. However, we consider them to be fragmentary and inadequate even in this process and say that you have shown a conservative attitude to productive and vulnerable forces. You will allow me to make four brief remarks on this. First of all, you have underestimated the sectoral impact of the crisis. Within a few days, you twice revised the activity numbers. The last wave of problems relates to sectors of wholesale trade which do not have an economic activity, such as dental materials. Secondly, you have designed tools to stimulate liquidity through banks that do not meet requirements. You are addressing half the businessmen and the other half of you are classified as bad payers, as you behave. With 45% of the business loans in the'red', it is clear that the measure is disproportionate. No escalation, no liquidity criteria, no question of sectoral and commercial transactions. You are hiding behind bank criteria, leaving an uncontrolled market in dramatic crisis and intent to determine unfair competition. Thirdly, the presumption of what I'm saying is how you deal with scientists - free professionals, as unskilled workers who will block the freezing of their jobs by training. He's already filled the internet with ads for voucher from those who'll collect it. Such a speed in resource recovery has never existed before either in the crisis or in the history of the ESDP. If you cannot think of other ideas, see the example of Denmark, for which the committee approved compensation to self-employed persons up to 75% of the expected loss of turnover. We have tabled concrete proposals, and for those who have been excluded, such as farmers or long-term unemployed, workers and tourism businesses, or those who have to join heavy and unhealthy. Of course, for many years we have pointed out the need to extend first home auctions. Fourthly, you have pushed from the outset to increase the flexibility of labour by rotating, so that you can be forced to fold again after the big and justified reactions. That's what's going on at national level. As far as European is concerned, I will come back later. But I would like to make a little reminder of the amount of resources. The five billion that the government has chosen to make available in addition to the State budget is an entirely inadequate sum. After all, they have already committed themselves to the relief of businesses now. You have had arms and opportunity to plan and allocate additional resources, from the removal of budgetary restrictions, from the European Central Bank's quantitative expansion programme, which is expected to ensure liquidity of EUR 12 billion at very low interest rates, from the integration of Greek government bonds into all the securities purchase programmes by the European Central Bank, from the use of all the financial instruments provided by the European Investment Bank - you are talking about 2 billion - the European Investment Fund - you are talking about 1.2 billion - the special employment fund - the estimate is 2 billion for us - and of course the ESR. The question is why you stayed in the conservative policy of 5 billion. And I'm not talking, as Tsipras and SYRIZA say, about a huge amount that can't be costed any more. I have the impression that under these circumstances you could plan and not have had such a conservative assessment and approach twice as much to meet the needs. Of course I say it because all your political choices are fragmented and not through a wider and integrated programme. In my dentistry, I will say a little more about the general and the European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much for the question. I would like to begin by saying that there is nothing fragmentary about what we are doing. There is a very great uncertainty, which all the political forces must understand, which obliges us to be careful and to move in phases. What's the uncertainty? Uncertainty is the duration of the phenomenon, the intensity of the phenomenon, the possibility of hitting tourism very hard in the summer and returning in the autumn and the unknown side effects that will have an international economic crisis that comes from both demand and supply and have never seen a previous one. We must therefore guard forces, so that we can meet the needs of the Greek economy, not in the next fortnight or next month, but at least in the next eight months, if we hope that this crisis will begin to go beyond the beginning of 2021. The second thing the opposition must take into account is that we have an uncertainty before us and with regard to who is affected. We started with the activity codes because we did not have data during March - and that is why we used electronic transactions - where and how much each business is hit. We're talking about a phenomenon that hits the economy like a tsunami, but tsunami comes to the shore and first scans the umbrellas and then starts and moves. We have therefore gone in succession precisely to include, on the basis of electronic transactions successively, the sectors affected, and then we will proceed to individualisation. A repayable advance of 1 billion has already been approved for that. It is a very specific measure, but it concerns jobs, hence one to five hundred, the jobs covered by the repayable advance. The repayable advance is mainly based on the turnover of companies, which they give us for March and, in fact, on tax declarations which we bring forward in order to be able to know what is going on. When we have more information than the April and May statements, we will go to much more specific solutions. We've covered a very big range. We are now talking about about two million people. Of course, there are still gaps. I would say to you that there is a gap for the long-term unemployed, but a package is being prepared for them, and other categories of unemployed are included. There are many businesses that are still not covered. As far as the problem you are saying about banking criteria is concerned, it is right. There are many companies that do not have access to bank lending, and that is why we have taken the completely new measure of the repayable advance that does not have bank criteria and is quite massive, in principle EUR 1 billion. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In relation to scientists, we have already said that, once the phenomenon continues, it will be included at EUR 800 from May. And small businessmen who have no employees are also covered, since they are also in the affected SARs, from EUR 800. Of course all this is the beginning of this. These five billion things you say are not conservative, because they concern expenditure. Perhaps it escapes you that we are taking measures the same big ones concerning suspensions of tax obligations which have a corresponding effect if the phenomenon lasts for more than two months. So in total we are taking the measures that we consider to be right at the moment by holding back forces. What comes from Europe will go into phase two and some of them, such as the quantitative relaxation that is a great success, is primarily about liquidity in the banking system and not about resources that are readily available. That's what I wanted to say in the first place. I conclude by saying that national agreement, which you refer to in your written question, is necessary and we believe that it is best achieved in this Chamber by the level and style of discussions, but also by the real votes on government measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u31	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u32	Minister, it is clear that both from my personal route and from the climate of the time, the national understanding is not just a good thing, but it is a reality in which no one can be opposed to the substance, much more than we or I who consider to be a structural element of my presence on a whole route. Your answer on the one hand is reasonable, but on the other hand it has a weakness. I didn't talk about long-term things. I have not talked about the uncertainty that is given nor about the size of the crisis. I talked about the beginning. The beginning has a big problem. You know very well that if the cycle starts running and business closes and the productive system breaks down, rebooting will not be easy, no matter how much money you make available. I am not talking, for example, about the political opposition party calling for a programme and cost it about 24 billion, but I am talking about a real possibility of risking and giving more impetus to dealing with today's problems so that there is no problem tomorrow. I have not talked about supposed resources, neither about Eurobonds nor about anything else. I spoke about the current resources available that you could plan from now on and quickly and will be covered in the course, because they are given by the European Bank and all that I mentioned earlier. Your answer does not touch our concern and anxiety, because I do not imagine financial resources that do not exist, such as the overweighting of the pillow, whether resources are available from ANFA etc. That's something that'll look like in the future. We insist, however, that the country from now on could have won a serious project to target, which will be implemented quickly on the basis of available resources, so that, on the one hand, the recession in the relaunch of the economy is as deep as possible and, in particular, the recovery as quickly as possible and, above all, inclusive and poor social groups and without the restructuring of the country's productive potential. The country can now, at European level, forcefully claim to increase the direct resources available in the most neutral way possible. We all realise that, if the dramatic recession scenarios are confirmed in 2020, then debt levels will also be very close to 200%, so that the crisis cannot be tackled in substance. I would like to make two general remarks, Mr President. We, Minister, have always proposed for a long time, from the outset, not only on your own terms of office, but also on the previous government, at every stage, concrete measures, concrete proposals, without any party feasibility and incomprehensibility. Many of our proposals are retrospectively aimed at adopting the Government and the Civic Opposition. This party has a sense of patriotic and social responsibility. Besides, each one's history and path speaks here. All that you are taking today is an institutional and policy guarantee for overcoming the pandemic crisis. Do you want the ESS, do you want the welfare state, do you want to tackle natural disasters, do you want social solidarity with its institutions? Something reminds us of who and when. In conclusion, I would like to give some advice from my experience, a strategy advice, based on my long-standing political path. The fact that the Prime Minister has shown himself prepared to deal with the health crisis and that he has co-signed the Eurobond's claim with the other eight countries, obviously, is positive and we welcome it. But note what Andreas Papandreou taught us from the way he negotiated with the European Union, starting with the 1981-82 memorandum, the IMPs, convergence programmes, etc. You must not leave the table if we do not gain anything important for the country, even if you need to display strong resistance that reaches the veto. The North-South confrontation is at the outset and will literally judge the European future. The alliances we will build must not be short-term for both the photographs and praises of our partners. They must have tangible and immediate results for us, even if they are not the best, such as the Eurobond. And don't forget that for the Eurobond, when we first set it up in 2010, and I can bring you dozens of publications that blocked the proposal. In retrospect, then, we are not prophets. I want to say that we have a very difficult road ahead and we must read it very wisely, but at the same time boldly. It takes great boldness in these cases and ruptures when required.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, I too should like to add something that has been there lately, because you know now in parliamentary control questions have been reduced. We have had a timely question concerning all islanders about the equivalent of transport. Mr. Placiotakis told me that this is in your office for signature. It is important in this crisis that we can help islanders who are suffering a great deal of damage and support them with a measure that has already been voted on. Thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u34	Look, it's no longer in my office. To answer, starting with the need for speed and wisdom. Here we have - to use a paradox - a war with an invisible enemy and the great problem we have is the so-called'mix of war'. We don't see when the enemy will be so close that we can deal with him. The great danger that the country has is that the artillery shoots in the void and the shells break into the sand without hitting anyone. If we drop all the money at a time when businesses don't open and are not ready to look the next day and have no plan for the next day - because at the moment businesses are not planning the next day because, like us, they don't know the future - then I'm afraid that the money will be used not in the best way. Also, if we drop all the money without knowing exactly what has happened to individual businesses, which means we have to get some information about their cigarettes and how they behave, we'll throw them for free. And because the money is impoverished - because you are right about what you say about debt - and because the markets do not know how it will be - harder or easier - we must be very careful. The worst thing that can happen is to have shot and, when the enemy comes, not to have ammunition. Now, as far as Europe is concerned, I would like to tell you that I had a teacher from Constantine Mitsotakis who had a different logic from Andreas Papandreou in the negotiations and, in my opinion, brought very important positive results in his time. And what he was teaching...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u35	Don't compare that, don't compare it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u36	Everyone has his historic path. So what he taught is that you have to form major alliances and participate in these alliances in an effective way. Sitting alone on the table is nice and heroic. The important thing is to sit with enough others to bring about results. And that is what this government has done, and instead of talking about negotiating tactics, what can be invoked is the results. He brought Greece to the quantum relaxation. He brought Greece to normalization. We have this year's financial area as much as we need. That government brought money. Yesterday the repayable advance was a billion. We are bringing results, and in this crisis it is not about communication, it has the effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u37	The first item under number 612/3-24-2020 will now be debated in the first cycle of MP Achaias in the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias (Syria) Readstopoulou to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "The necessary measures for the housing structures of refugees". The question will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Metarakis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the country in the face of pandemic seems to be going well. But there are gray zones, very gray zones, which are potentially a sanitary bomb, but which can cause a humanitarian crisis for people who can experience this bomb if it shuts down. It is better to see to it that it runs later. Such grey zones are enough. I won't talk about either Roma or institutions, homes, etc. We saw them in other countries. A plan of action must be taken immediately. The big health bomb, the big issue is the refugee - immigration camps. I'm not talking SYRIZA alone. I am conveying the voice of doctors, doctors without frontiers, the World Health Organisation, the IMO, the European Internal Affairs Commissioner, five thousand doctors who have signed, namely experts, who are responsible for these issues in a pandemic. What are they asking for? What we were talking about. We were considered ideological, we thought we wanted to make a polo attraction to Greece for refugees - immigrants. Put it aside now. I won't start a conversation like this. But it is impossible - and all those experts I have quoted are calling it - to check a situation in camps with so many thousands of people on the islands, but also in closed structures. We saw that Richona and Malakasa were the first warning bell. We have the Key to the Serres, the closed structure that the day before yesterday - I hope we welcome it - you have made it open under pressure. But even as open of this type, it cannot, in the area it is, with people in it to meet the needs of these people. Serres Hospital can't raise people if anything happens. So is the Sidirokastro Health Center. I and many of us knew Mr. Chiodra beforehand. We didn't need the pandemic. We were aware of his positions on refugees and immigrants. He was accused, in his honor, of Golden Dawn. He said, as the World Health Organisation and the European area of the World Health Organisation now say, that they are normal people, that they should be in the National Health System, as Portugal did. It takes first decongestion or, if this is not possible in these circumstances, at least the vulnerable groups within the refugee camps will soon be transferred to hotels, which you have committed, Minister, to the European Parliament's Committee on Freedoms, if I am not mistaken, since you have avoided talking about closed structures and all that. Of course, you blame the municipalities. Secondly, what about the children and minors who would leave for Germany? Thirdly, what is the strategic plan to address these people?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, my colleague. There is indeed an important issue of congestion in the islands. I am going to speak about these in my dentistry to answer the substance of the important questions you have put. At this moment in our country there are some 100 thousand asylum seekers, the seventy thousand of whom are staying in hospitality structures. Of these seventy thousand so far in two structures of thirty-eight, we have twenty-eight coronary cases and so far no victims. From the first moment on, we have taken substantial steps to protect both those living in structures and workers in these and the local society. The first measure we have taken is the separation of arrivals from 1 March for which there are few new arrivals in our country. Following the CSCE's decision to put the Armed Forces and Security Body into absolute care, the flows are very limited. Right now on the islands we have almost zero flows in the last fifteen to twenty days. The first measure, therefore, was the separation of new arrivals, so that they would not go to Moria, BIAL, Vathy, Kos and Lero new arrivals. These new arrivals were transferred to two closed centres that were created in Serres and Malakasa. These centres are now closed for public health reasons. The second important measure we have taken was limiting movement to and from the structures. We are applying stricter traffic limitation measures than for the general population. The Greek police, responsible for enforcing the measures, ensures that there are no violations of the law. For the islands in particular, we have decided not to pay the April allowance granted by the High Commissioner to asylum seekers until they are placed in the structures so that tens or hundreds of the residents do not come out to receive this allowance. By means of legislation, we provide within the structures there will be space where basic products will come. The third thing we did is that we created health structures in all these KITTs. In cooperation with the Deputy Director of Public Health of the North Aegean, Mr. Pantelis Vroulis, we have also placed in Moria and Chios and in Vathy special structures where control of those who enter and leave. There's also provision for quarantine if there are cases. Corresponding quarantine spaces exist in Richona, where we have thirteen cases, and Malakasa, where we have five. So far, the virus has not spread to those living in general, nor to any member of staff. So the risk of transporting out is limited. The fourth thing we have done is that we have made sure that, in the languages that the residents understand in these structures, the precautionary measures they must take. We work with local communities. We have created quarantine space in both Mytilini and Chios, and we are ready in Samos, so that if there are any new arrivals, they do not enter the general population. Because you mentioned the municipalities, I must applaud the local authorities who are aware of the seriousness of the crisis to protect the inhabitants of their islands and the asylum seekers and the KITs residents. There are also some sad exceptions that suggest renting cruise ships, giving 50 000, 100,000, 150,000 per day per island, so that if arrivals occur, they can be isolated. We all need to show a seriousness. And in the crisis, local government will appear to be able to play its strategic role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u41	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u42	Mr Minister, I am pleased that at least you have not told me that these people are contagious. We heard that in February and by the Prime Minister. The day before yesterday, we heard them from Mr. Syrgos. We have heard that Turkey may send them, be contagious and so on. Fortunately, there is no such issue, at least from you. But you didn't answer my questions. Police patrolling outside if people get out, this is not a strategic plan to deal with an epidemic within the camps and outside of them. When we have so many thousands of stacked people in such structures, tell me, if anything happens, how these people will quarantine. Strategic plan always anticipates it. I asked two specific questions, Mr Minister, about what you committed yourself to. You said to the Internal Affairs Commissioner - and he even welcomed it - that vulnerable groups, vulnerable groups, will leave to stay in hotels. I asked a question about the minors and the children. I'm asking a third question specifically about the Key and the measures you're thinking about getting specific. City residents say it is inappropriate to structure - open now - because of the area. It's a ballistic area. It is not indicated for such a structure. Besides, it wasn't meant to be closed. Strengthen health centres in these areas. Has it been aided? ETA can take as many samples as possible to the majority of the population. This, Minister, is not just a humanitarian matter. It's humanitarian because it's realistic. When there are such sanitary bombs, we are not rescued only from outside, especially when there is no elementary hygiene rule and this famous distance from everyone else. We saw it anyway. The story has proved it. I would also like to welcome the fact that the asylum procedure has been lifted. It wasn't said anywhere. We salute it, and if it's another piece of shit yours. It's okay. I conclude by saying that in any case the refugee - immigration - has been treated with a huge idea of right from the outset. For not coming to the islands, let it go. It's another conversation. You're reading the international press. That's not the point of my question. I would like to say, however, that you have dealt with it with a great deal of idealism. I expect, with all my appreciation to Mr Chiodra for his positions on the refugee - immigration - he himself to expose a strategy as a doctor now and in charge of dealing with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, I have abstained from referring to what you have insisted on in your dentistry. I am concerned that you do not understand that our country has accepted and accepted an asymmetrical threat from the neighbor. This asymmetrical threat can take any form. That is why we are still very careful, cautious and to the utmost extent alert to the protection of national interests. This is the government's mission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u45	Minister, we too are in favour of national interests! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u46	We proceeded to measures to protect public health, and that is why we issued - which since 2016 you have been legally bound and have never done - the health card for asylum seekers to have access to public health. It was a law of 2016 that you never applied. If anything happens, there is an emergency plan for both the structures and quarantine spaces and for larger areas, if necessary. There is provision for local society as well. Because you have only referred to asylum seekers in your question, and you have shown no interest in local societies, the public health of which we must also protect. We have said from the outset that there is a matter in these structures, and that is why the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u47	There's in the Minutes what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u48	Please! Minister, wait a minute. Madam Colleague, please very much! That's not the process! Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u49	From the very beginning, the government has said that Moria and Vial should be closed, but I did not see you supporting the new structures. On the other hand, I saw your own MPs in Mytilini and Chios on the front line of the reactions to the new structures, to close Moria, the unacceptable Moria, to close Vial, the unacceptable VIAL. So, on the one hand, you are complaining about Moria and Vial, but when we went to bring solutions, you were not part of this solution. For hotels, we agree with the European Commission. It was our proposal for hotels. We work with the High Commissioner to have hotels for vulnerable people. As our plan is to have quarantine spaces and there are now quarantine spaces. The Key remains closed. It is an area chosen by the local municipality and all necessary steps were taken to meet hygiene and living conditions. The legislative act to which you referred and which you did not vote on - you, SYRIZA, did not vote for the extraordinary measures that we took on 1 March as Greece to protect ourselves - was deemed successful in practice. Because, while Turkey wanted to get in and said it was a hundred and fifty - two hundred thousand people in our country, they finally entered a few hundred. Since you have this interest in the islands, I would like to remind you first of all that before the 2015 SYRIZA Governance, there was no migration problem in the islands, there were no significant flows in the islands. We had no problem in the North and South Aegean before the policy of immigration of the "first time left" government. Why, though, have we had this congestion on the islands? Why don't you talk about it? Let me tell you why we were confusing the islands. We're confusing for the following reasons. Firstly, we had increased flows of 86% from July to the end of February, until the legislative act which is now almost zero. We also had the agreement between the European Union and Turkey that has been made on days of SYRIZA with your vote at the European Council, which has led to the creation of'storeys' souls on our islands. Because, with your agreement, you have banned those who do not have a asylum decision from the islands, because then there would be no refund. It is also very important that by 2019 we wanted a hundred and eighty-five days with your own laws to make the first asylum decision. Isn't that a violation of human rights? With our law we now need twenty-seven days. You did not vote for the Act on the Change of Asylum. But when we say what you didn't vote for, you didn't vote for the decongestion law. We have brought an amendment to the House three weeks ago to leave eleven thousand inland people who poorly occupy positions because they are no longer entitled to them so that 11 000 from the islands can come. You didn't vote for that either. But you will say - and I shall end with that, Mr President - that we have now had fewer people on the islands. Yeah, that's true. But let me tell you why? Not because you were interested in the islands. You were interested in not making any returns to Turkey. You were interested in someone else coming. As a result, when the second decision was being prepared, after eighteen months with your own legislation, for humanitarian reasons to bring them inland. And when the secondary decision came out which, by 93%, validates the primary negative, was now outside the European Union-Turkey agreement. Yes, well, we have had fewer in the islands for these days, because you were taking them to the mainland. You didn't do them because you were interested in the islands, but you were interested in them not to come back. And for today, in the first two months of 2020, we tripled the returns to Turkey. And those who entered in March will have an individual asylum test and those who are not entitled to international protection will be deported, because that is our country's policy. Anyone who is not entitled to international protection shall be returned from the country in which he comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u51	No, no, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, it can't be. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u52	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u53	I won't allow it. All colleagues will ask for a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, just one word! A proposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u55	One sentence, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u56	I transferred to the Greek Parliament for parliamentary control the agony of thousands of doctors...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u57	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, we've heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u58	And Mr. Metarakis answers me the way he's learned and done the migration thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u59	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, this is not the case! Please! The procedure is specific. All colleagues have a protagonist and a dent. So is the Minister. That's the process all the years. So it's got to be respected by everyone, because then everyone's gonna ask for a tritology. The second question under number 616-4-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "What is the plan and measures of the Government to take on the urgent issue of food adequacy (security) of the country's population, since we need the liquidity of a billion euro to protect today's production, the uninterrupted continuation of the production process, farmers and the primary sector." The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I note your comment that parliamentary control has been too limited. We are not able to contribute to the way in which we deal with the problem, and I would say that the Conference of Presidents must review this so that after the end of Easter, at least three questions have been raised by each of the parliamentary groups. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement to deal with this crisis holds a responsible and, at the same time, creative attitude. We support all the decisions based on the recommendations of scientists and experts in order to drastically limit the spread of pandemic and, at the same time, we propose solutions so that the effects of this crisis are as small as possible. Society must be kept up and, in order to do this, the economy must be kept alive. In this context, we have had Mr Kostas Scandalidis' question to the Minister of Finance about the overall economic plan, about what the government can do and has not done so far in order to keep the economic activity and, of course, to restart to the new data after the crisis. In the same context, it is my question concerning the agricultural sector and the agri-food crisis that has already begun to show the first signs. And I must tell you, Minister, that on many issues we have asked for solutions from the Ministry of Development, but that has referred us to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance has shown you and by name. For example, for our question and our request - not ours, but our producers - for some SARs whose activity has been zeroed into the support framework said: 'But that is not our responsibility. It is Mr Vorides'. I don't know that, and I'd like you to do a placement on that too. So last week both the UN and the FAO pointed out the problem of food production and trafficking and sounded the alarm about the agri-food crisis, which will mainly affect the weakest, but also the whole population and, above all, our country. The primary sector of Greece and the capacity of food production has already begun to suffer. You know that the orientation of our productive sector is exports, tourism and the internal market. Exports, while not banned, are carried out with obstacles and in many products, up to 30% of those that were before the crisis, mainly due to problems of movement which do not concern our country, but the international market. Tourism is not only zero, as regards the availability of products, but also the production that has been prepared and for which people have invested in cultivation, in order to make tourism available - it should already be available - is left to the most seriously negative balance for farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The internal market already has its distortions. The derivative price is established here - the rule and the law of great supply and less demand - but consumer prices are increasing because of the measures that distorted the market and the supply of products. It is a concrete example. Producers are prohibited from placing their products on the public market directly, while products from other regions are allowed to be marketed through traders. That's a distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that you should immediately see an integrated plan for the primary, agricultural and agricultural sectors, based on liquidity assurance for producers, cooperative organisations and private sector enterprises operating in the processing and marketing of agricultural products. You need to take a serious look at the issue of paying at least 50% of the subsidy by means of a cash facility, now in May, to producers and to see and make use of storage measures in relation to the need to distribute food to the most deprived of existing resources. Finally, I say to you that there are too many issues outstanding which have to do with the payment of compensation and aid which had to be linked to other issues that really need to be dealt with under pressure from the crisis and from the need to maintain the production base.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because there is a big difference between the agricultural production base and the rest of the economy. It does not open and it does not close the agricultural production process with the switch. It doesn't start with the switch opening. She needs her time. There is the productive cycle and the growing cycle that takes time, money and directions from the state's side that there will be a market tomorrow to make the products available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, first of all, regarding whether there is a specific plan, the answer is: we have a very clear and concrete plan on how to deal with the consequences of pandemic in the primary sector. And what does that plan say? The first and main objective is to maintain food adequacy and food safety. You referred to what FAO says. The FAO points out risks and bad practices that can create a crisis, adding to what are the most vulnerable areas. What he actually says is firstly that transport must be kept open, because any disturbance at the level of transport will cause a very serious problem. What has actually happened is that, throughout the European Union, we have established 'green strips' so that there is no, if possible, delay in any control measures from country to country. And we have put the category of food transport in the same category as the transport of medicines. The second very important point is that we need to address the potential shortage of labour, because there are restrictions on the border in the movement of this workforce. This can be deprived of land workers and create productive problems. These two restrictions, namely restrictions on food transport and restrictions on the movement of personnel, can create a problem. And keep them open both. There will be further intervention on the issue of land workers, especially in our country, because there is a clearly increased problem. Possibly, if I have time, I'll talk about it later. The second thing we have said is that the primary sector is not suitable for horizontal policies, because asymmetry is not the same for each production. Not all productions are affected in the same way and some productions are not affected at all. For example, hard wheat due to increased demand for pasta, has too high prices. Rice because there is increased demand, it has too high prices. Some fruit and vegetable production, for example oranges, have very high prices and increased demand. So we are not all affected, and on the contrary - and you rightly point out - there are serious asymmetry and serious disturbances in other sectors of the primary sector. Fishing has been severely affected. Blooming has essentially been closed. So what do we do? We have developed a strategy of targeted intervention and support for these producers. I signed yesterday - perhaps this is more of a concern to you - the de minimis, which, of course, are not linked to the coronary, but are about greenhouses in Crete. I will now also sign further support, again de minimis, for production in Evros. And it has already been sent a request for support with the sum of about EUR 10 million for blooming, while we are waiting for the new fisheries regulation to be ratified to see what possibilities the new regulation gives us to make use of Community resources to support fisheries. The exercise of fishing is already taking place. The next time we will make requests to the Treasury in order to transfer us money to support coastal fishing, and it will be separate from the treatment of average fishing and greater fishing. So what are we saying as a strategy? No sector that is affected will be left alone. We're tracking all asymmetry on the market day after day. Let me say one more thing, Mr Colleague, and I am sure you will follow me on this. Because where there is state intervention and where the word support is heard are automatically formed speculative games in the next second, as some people when they hear that we are ready to support, mainly from the commercial sector, automatically push the prices to the producers because they say: 'Very nice. The state will come to support', I want to see the price formation and demand at market level, and I want the disturbances justified by the restrictive measures, and I do not want anyone, above all, from us and at the level of the public word, to make, of course, a'vehicle' of such speculative games. The crisis creates a state obligation to support production, but at the same time it also creates a State obligation to prevent speculative games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our effort should be to keep society up and that means keeping the economy and the agricultural production base alive. To collect the products and freely to place them on the market. I begin with what you said about the market, because I would expect different things from a free-marketer, unless you and Mr Georgiadis have ceased to be the Minister responsible. So let me say that it is a distortion of what you are doing, to prevent producers from placing their products on the market. If Attica could only have food adequacy with products produced in Attica, as provided for in Mr Georgiadis' decision, then the previous period would not have existed and the market itself would have expelled producers from the other regions. This distortion, however, caused by this decision by the Ministry of Development, unfortunately, has greatly increased prices on the products currently marketed in Attica. Hugely the difference in product prices here in Attica from other regions, hugely the difference even from supermarkets, hugely the difference and the opening-up of the producer price - consumer price. That's for granted. As I told you in personal contact, the price of tomato in Ierapetra was EUR 0.10 on a specific day and on the three previous days, while in the people's and supermarkets the tomato available has an outrageously high price that is not justified even during the periods of prosperity where we developed this phenomenon of speculation. It's market distortion. Otherwise, the rule of the great offer currently in existence by producers and less demand would bring down consumer prices. This distortion is therefore caused by the intervention of the Ministry of Development. You have to deal with it as the Ministry of Rural Development. How will the production base be retained without liquidity? We need liquidity in the market for supplies, energy, irrigation, resources, fertilisers. So, liquidity in cooperatives, producer groups, and producers. Our proposal is specific. It has also been applied in the past. It is compatible with European law, in particular, the aid regulation. By means of a cash facility - therefore, the State will only pay interest - to pay at least 50% of the due subsidies or subsidies, if you want, paid last year, after a simple request by producers' s sms and, of course, to offset the normal procedure with the IACC and if there are issues that are unduly paid, there is a procedure to get back. This cash facility is necessary. It is EUR 856 million if we get 50%. If we take a little longer, it's a billion euros. One billion euros to producers means ensuring capacity at the base now. I think you should move on to that. You have the possibility without anyone else's approval, except for the Minister of Finance, for the cash facility through a bank with a tender, as has been done in the past. It can be done. Secondly, guarantees for the producer and cooperative organisation. Guarantees for the agricultural sector are out. I give you the document from the European Commission that approved the Greek proposal. Greece has outside the agricultural sector. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We therefore propose the creation of a system of guarantees for the primary sector with the use of existing tools - we believe that you will move in this direction - and, of course, national resources. The whole productive sector should also have the necessary liquidity, of course, and the private companies involved in this sector. Thirdly, to stop the game with the CAR, to refer to you competent ministers saying "Ma, it is not possible". We must at long last look at the issue of the primary sector's CSRs which are not affected. There are certain people. I'll tell you a case that's 90% down. Mr. Skolakis told me. Production of fresh aromatic plants is 90% down. And yet, he's not the ones affected. And he says to me, "But it's not my responsibility, even though I have something to do with the sector. I used to be active in this area." The man told me that sincerely. And that's the reality. Neither the Minister for Development takes the decision nor the Minister for Finance nor the Minister for Rural Development. Where will the producers go? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So stop this game, see the CARs and cooperative organisations as a single system, because they got into at least the first few days and now it's going to be over and I think it's in the right direction. I now come to the issue of land workers. We have tabled a question to you and we are proposing to extend the calls for people already in our country. Because if they leave next month, they won't come back. The procedure is almost forbidden. You can also see, in consultation with the European Union, whether this can be changed and, above all, whether the licenses of those who are now in our country can be extended. The second proposal is very important and crucial. All workers, regardless of the sector they have been working today, whether they are unemployed or seasonal workers, or workers in sectors and businesses who do not operate, can work in the agricultural sector, i.e. in primary production, under the motto 'We are collecting our products', in order to keep this activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u69	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. How can this be done? We need a regulation. Talk about it with Mr. Brutsi. To be able to pay a producer who cannot currently, because he is insured in the ECA, and the State pays the insurance contributions, i.e. the difference from the lump sum and the insurance contribution that he is entitled to as an insured to the ECAA. Thus, we will also be exploiting internal production potential. Instead of'surpassing' it, we can only give it the possibility with the support of the State to work in the agricultural sector, by paying only the difference in insurance contributions. And not to tell him "I'll give you an allowance to sit down", while production needs labour hands. Mr President, it is indeed difficult to include all agricultural issues in one question, because there is too much to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u71	And the time we've given you is too much, but we understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u72	I close with TEVA, a program that has available resources in Greece. They are not being fully exploited now because they provide for certain rules. I think there may be legislative arrangements in this direction. But I am presenting you, Minister, a newspaper post today in Heraklion on agricultural problems, a document from the NEW PASPEGES on the problems, the ASEAN DRAMAS, the Naxos Union and, of course, the document that I have told you of the European Commission and the joint ministerial decision that has outside the agricultural sector from the guarantees. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor. Mr Kegeroglu has been extensively mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u74	The question of the people's markets to know has been very busy. There was this decision limiting the movement of producers by region, but its starting point was a decision by the Committee of Scientists who handled the measures of the pandemic. You should be aware that I asked for a review of the decision by this committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u75	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u76	It ended up in the same way after the review.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u77	How? Producers are here in Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u78	The Committee of Scientists ended up in the same way. I now tell you what has happened, because it is indeed a matter of concern to you. Today, a ministerial decision is to be published in the FEO which regulates the issue in part, and at least for those who assure that they actually live in Attica, but they have relatives or other productive structures, and therefore they are allowed to move their products, because it is precisely because they do not presuppose their self-location for their presence on the markets. That's all there is. There is a procedure in place. You'll see her at noon. I think this is partly trying to resolve the issue that has been created. In other words, I want it to be understood, because it may not be entirely clear, which are the mechanisms for supporting us at this time. The main mechanism is the EUR 150 million in the budget for targeted support where we see production being affected. This mechanism has already been activated. The EUR 10 million to go to flowering is from this mechanism. The second is the traditional de minimis which we have, to which you need to add about EUR 20 million for fisheries and EUR 20 million for primary production. The third mechanism we have is the two programmes: the Rural Development Programme and the Fisheries Support Programme, the PESF where we can move from other actions to the support of our producers. You should be aware that from the PCAF a very important part of it is going to support our producers, particularly in support of aquaculture, which has suffered a very great damage. I would therefore like to tell you that we are watching very, very carefully, everything that happens in the primary sector on a daily basis. Because you said about the tomato. Also, be aware, precisely because there are asymmetry in the markets, what appears every week as a significant drop in demand, the next week can appear as an increase in demand and an improvement in prices. To give you an example of this, there has been a significant increase in demand in pork meat and prices in recent weeks. This has obviously created stocks in households - they now have meat in their freezers - and at the moment there is a fall in demand. So, this - to see really which sector needs support - we cannot observe it day-to-day. We will observe it within a period of time, because this type of asymmetry exists. In particular, we will have something in mind, which is also a central point of our strategy. We're in the middle of the problem, we're not done with it. Nor did the restrictive measures come about, but once restrictive measures have been lifted, one must take into account the impact. Because we'll see how things go. You referred to tourism. Tourism will see how it goes, but if it goes wrong, it may affect the agri-food system. So that is something we need to have in our minds and see how we can support, not necessarily now, because that has a perspective. So we're studying it and making the tools. Two ministerial decisions will now be adopted that will enable us to activate the ESDP. In any case, at European Union level, this is something open. You said about the advances. Look, the advance payments of direct payments that could be a step, a tool, are something that I have asked for, in other words, the advances to come closer. The European Commission is looking into this. At the moment, it has not changed, but - let me say it - the upper limit of the advances that can be given has reached 75% and 80%, but not before 15 October, yet. That is the regulation that the European Commission has today. However, because this is a dynamic process and the regulations are undergoing continuous study, they are things which in the Council of Ministers are being put forward and re-examined and re-examined in order to achieve the best possible regulation. What I want to keep as a general remark is that for every disturbance on the market we see, we have the tools to intervene to support our producers effectively. We'll do it. We're already doing it. So there is not at present any cause for concern at the level of production nor has there been any major productive problem. The issue of land workers is important and crucial, it is something that concerns us, there will be our intervention. We are in agreement at various levels and at European and bilateral levels, where necessary and there will be various contributions from us to deal with this issue. The storage to which you referred is a measure. We'll see if we need to. We are in agreement with producers on this issue, where we need to activate it and use it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. Now we will discuss the third, with number 621/6-4-2020, a topical question for the second parliamentary party of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamonds Manolakos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct measures to support small and medium-sized farmers and farmers in our country". Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Of course the question has been preceded, as has the answers, and that gives us an opportunity to evaluate them. Support measures have been announced by the Ministry of Rural Development, however, sectors have remained outside - and that is the meaning of our question - and these sectors are being affected. We are talking about the producers of sensitive products who are reluctant to sell to the people themselves. You know that. In fact, Minister, you have asked for this restriction decision to be reviewed and it has been reintroduced. What does that mean? It means that there must be immediate support for these people, not only because their production has been destroyed, they have not made a partition, but at the same time they are also victims of extortion by traders, to lower prices even below production costs. There are also problems with ovine and caprine animals and milk and meat, and here the big traders are blackmailing. We have before Easter holidays. Exports to the Catholic Easter - I am talking about Italy and Spain - are pushing and blackmailing, and at this time they are buying them under four euros and you know it. So there's an uncertainty in the absorption of production and they're playing speculative games. You know, you did. Profuse games and blackmail come from the big traders, and of course price launching is high in Attica. My colleague said so before. When, i.e. the tomato is bought 0.10 or 0.20 minutes per kilo and ends up on the shelf with 1,50 euros, you need to take measures. That's what we're asking. The communications you have given are essentially about big businessmen. You have a special reference to aquaculture. Of course, exports have been drastically reduced, we recognise it, and also foodism in restaurants that are closed down there is no absorption. But, you know, the taverns also had ribbons and steaks, therefore, and for farmers you need to take measures. It can't be done. So what we are seeing - and if you want that, is today's topical question - is that you have two standards. For the large monopolistic groups you have earned certain amounts. For those who have a real problem, and we are talking about self-employed farmers in vulnerable products and farmers, there are no communications here. So, we're asking you for them? Firstly, the domestic production of vulnerable agricultural products and sheep and goatmeat and eggs will be channelled into people's consumption, without speculation from the various intermediaries, so that consumption prices are also available. So we also guarantee the income of these people and there is a possibility of controlling it. Also ensure that farmers receive free feedingstuffs, especially in excluded areas. To cover the lost income of small and medium-sized farmers and sectors affected by the pandemic and producers of the people's markets and to obtain a licence to move between the regions, of course by working with the experts. It's a fact, we put them above all and we respect it. And grant an exceptional allowance for producers who are ill or forced to remain at home for the needs of children. This applies to other workers, while to those who are self-employed, there is nothing. If there are difficulties, there are other measures that you can take and talk about debt suspension and all kinds of forced collection measures that exist - I am talking about power cuts, water - as long as the crisis lasts. Also, the 100% payment of ELGA compensation for 2019, the abolition of VAT on agricultural supplies and means, the reduction of agricultural streams, the granting of duty-free oil. Of course, because the system for UCLAF declarations has been opened, let it be free of charge. It's a relief, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u81	Minister, I would just like to add something, if I may, because I think it is important. You know many farmers rent either parcels or housing or anything else. So I think it would be very important to have a minus 40% there too, as is the case with the other free professionals. Maybe, I didn't say anything new, you'd have thought about it. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with a question. What kind of monopolistic rural groups have I taken care of and how much money have I given them? Because I haven't given anything. It's very simple. So why do you say that? Secondly, you are making this distinction, in which you say that we are caring for the large monopolistic groups and we are not caring for farmers. The florists who now take 10 million, you're joining the monopolistic groups? When there will be the sums that the fishermen of small coastal fishing will get, the small coastals - and there will be sums, I tell you that there will be - are you putting them in this category too? Why do you say that? You make this distinction. I understand that in the JRC's political philosophy and ideology, a form of classicism must be served, but you must support it here with elements, at least when you say so. I am not opening the big debate, but in this particular debate you must do so. So, then, you say that, I see it in some rural club announcements on the JRC, where it's based, where does it come from? The only sums that I have signed at the moment, and I am telling you specifically at this time, are 1 million to be paid by the shipowners - they do not go to the larges - 2 million to the greenhouses in Crete for the disasters that took place - they do not go to the bigs - 10 million to the growers - they do not go to the bigs - 5 million that Evros and the cotton producers will get for the damage of 2018 and they will take 1.5 million of the wheat. Where is the grant of the large monopolistic groups? So let's finish this. Let's go to second. I told you that it is not the primary sector suitable for horizontal policies. I am discussing the crisis. A number of issues you raise, of course, are important to reduce production costs as horizontal policies, such as agricultural oil, and they are things that are being examined, but they are not related to the response of the crisis and the treatment of the coronary affected. Here, then, all the structure we are building is now linked to dealing with the consequences of pandemic on primary production. And again, I ask you: do you think that in the same way we should treat wheat that is historically high in price and quantity, rice that is historically high in price and quantity, oranges that get historically high in price and quantity due to increased demand, increased export and in the same way we should treat fisheries, for example, which has a reduction that can reach 40% and 50%? There's one particular thing I want to explain. What has the food industry suffered? The catering shops are closed. That's right. So what do we do? We don't eat out. Right, but it doesn't mean we stopped eating. We eat at home. So what do I want to tell you? Uh, I don't know if we eat more or less, this stays to see it or I don't know, too, if we eat different things than we eat outside. For example, the impact on fisheries at international level is because? Because our consumption habits are that the fish eats it in restaurants, restaurants and restaurants. I mean, we eat it much less outside, so we can't replace the demand at home. Therefore, the demand is not replaced by the fact that we have kept the fish shops or the supermarkets that have catched because there is a collapse of demand there. So there's an asymmetry. Also, there are other types of asymmetry. Increased demand, I say again - I said it before - in pork for the first two weeks, because everyone went to get steaks to put them in the freezer. They've put them in, and now they've made a stock, so we've got a reduction in demand. However, this balance - let me say it this way - must be seen in total, we cannot see it weekly. I am saying that it is not the sector for which we need to make horizontal policies. That would be unfair. We need to make targeted support policies, and that is what we are doing. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To avoid abuse of time, I'll answer the rest of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u83	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you may not have signed the sums yet, but you have announced the branches you will give them. In this sense, fish crops are almost monopolistic or ginners or ice-cream industrialists. I'm talking about these branches you're all right with. However, you have not announced, for example, for the Laikanitz sector, which is coming from other counties in Attica. So we ask you to include them and in this sense you have not answered the specific questions, what you can give directly or indirectly, namely by zeroing VAT, which reduces costs, etc. Of course, we are not asking you for all producers and for all crops. The durum wheat will be favoured, the orange is already favored, the kiwidiums have been taken up. We are not asking for these, we have asked for specific. It is good, of course, that you have given de minimis to Crete, but it is not just Crete. There are other areas. In other words, the populace producers, the ones who come to Attica, are one of the surrounding prefectures, almost from all over the Peloponnese and from Central Greece. What about these people? Here the figures given for these days, is that the cursor on the gazette benches has suffered a 60% reduction. At the same time, what do we have? These people had planned some things, they have a production that will rot. And it's not that they've lost the cut, it's that they've given up money for this production. Do they need liquidity? Yes, they do, because summer begins and they need to buy the proper supplies to continue rural activity. Do they have to go on with her? But when you say - and rightly so - that we must have domestic self-sufficiency and security, of course we must have one. But how are we going to help these people who have an important part of production indisposed? For these measures, we ask for specific answers. You know, they have other, side effects. There are traders who have given the checks, which should be redeemed at the moment. The extension you're giving goes further. See how tight this sector is and all this needs to be taken into account. That's what we're asking. With the livestock farmers, look at what's happened. You know it. Deals with dealers have been booked ahead of Easter. They take phones to give production and the phones don't lift them, of course, because they're pushing and blackmailing. We ask you: How will you protect these people, the farmers? In Spain - you know - the state subsidy was EUR 30 per animal, for female animals over four months, to continue breeding in the herd. Why don't we move on here? Do you think 150 million euros will be reached? Oh, no. We with the specific questions and proposals that we have put - and rightly put them - are also putting agricultural cooperatives and clubs and let them be affected by the JRC - ask you to make a comprehensive design and the weakest to strengthen them. Is it why? In the interests of survival. Look at you, guaranteed prices that were, if you want, and from the first requests for mobilisations, is it right now to put them in place? You need to set a guaranteed price, you know why? So the middlemen don't win. They've found a golden opportunity, it's like the wolf that's happy for the bump. We therefore ask you to announce measures - tools, you have said - of relief, not to hold them in quarantine, but to give them and to communicate the fair demands of farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u86	I come a little on the more specific issues. Producers of popular markets, in fact, since 22 March, a decision has been adopted prohibiting the movement for health reasons. Today, as I have said, there will be a partial treatment of the matter. I think that the regulation we are going to bring will satisfy to a large extent. Indeed, for this period of the days from 22 to the present, there should be some support for these producers. We're looking into it. I will study specifically, what the consequences are, and we will see what we are going to do in this particular space. When we talk about farmers now, let us make it clear that we are talking about sheep and goats. There has been an enthusiasm all along, which says that internal demand will collapse, because there will be no citizens' movements to the Easter region. I heard that philology. I wonder whether this is not going to happen. In the house where we're staying - I've said it twice, three times in the middle, I'm going to tell the House - the Easter fishing soup we're eating? Because I say that we will observe the custom and the lamb or the goat will eat it. Now, if it's the same amount, if it's gonna be something less or more, we'll see. And I say nobody's in a hurry. For there is a deficit in ovine and caprine farming in its demand under normal conditions and there are imports of the order of three hundred and four hundred thousand lambs per annum at the time in question to meet internal demand. Do you know how many imports are to date? It's nine and a half thousand. I'm watching one, one. I'll tell you who's got them. I'll tell you where they've been and who's traded. It's nine and a half thousand, though. They've come from Romania. These are the imports to date. So let us just see how the demand is to be shaped. Because we are anticipating reduced demand. And some who are benefiting from reduced demand, create a terrorism right now among producers, farmers that - you know - you will be left and that is why you will give it low. Let's see how the demand's going to be shaped. Don't get ahead of ourselves. It is also very important that we, yes, put a general framework of support, but we are monitoring, as I have told you, the market in how it is evolving and how it is shaped. We do not want to be part of these speculative policies. This means, therefore, that we are considering how the situation is being shaped. No one to worry. Where it really takes, and we'll see a disturbance in demand, there we'll track it down. For the time being, I think we can encourage our fellow citizens to celebrate Easter, under these special conditions in the traditional way and, of course, having ensured that they will be available for the celebration and respect of the customs Greek amnofilions in excellent quality. Therefore, there is no such thing as...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u87	And low price!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u88	And at a fair price, I will say, for all, for both farmers and traders and consumers. I'm going to something else, which you say, and you say it again. Aquaculture, first of all, is not three undertakings. They are five big businesses indeed. However, the whole of aquaculture enterprises are close to the eighth farms. So it's not five. Five businesses are the big ones. We have another seventy, seventy-five companies, which are small and medium-sized aquaculture enterprises. I've never said there's no one going to be backed up. They'll all be backed up. Because we also need large businesses for their production and medium-sized enterprises, we need them for their production and coastal fishermen. We all need them. I am simply not making the distinction that you make and I think you are wrong to us - you are wronging the government and me personally - by saying that you are'supporting and not supporting them'. Everyone will be backed up. We need to find the right tool to support them and work for it. I want no worries. As far as the specific demands you make to me are concerned, if we are to take over the channelling of domestic production, I tell you that no, we are not going to make the trader a state. We are not going to build a commercial chain and we are not going to do this for any product. There's no disturbance right now. I repeat that there are disturbances and symmetry due to restrictive measures. There may be signs of speculation attempted and I can trace them and show them. In particular, on the issue of meat, we have brought special rules, by means of a legislative act which creates an obligation on the meat traders to inform us every three days of their stocks in storage in order to facilitate controls. I have already announced legislation which we are going to pass immediately in the next period with which I am burdened - and I will now see the attitude here of the political parties in this legislation - and I am strict in the framework for dealing with the Greekisations. I would just like to open up a parenthesis here. How many years have we been talking in this Chamber about Greekism and mimicism? You know there's no criminal provision? All these years that we have been discussing this, criminal sanctions for this crime, for which the whole political world agrees that it has maximum moral decency and huge economic consequences for our production, is not there. He doesn't have a criminal order. So I bring a criminal order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u89	He's in favor of dealers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u90	In fact, I'm carrying a heavy criminal order. Three to five years is imprisonment. Heavy flood. Do you know that administrative fines have reached the maximum of EUR 30,000 for this operation so long? Now, the fines will go to 300,000 euros. And in the case of large businesses, they will be able to reach up to EUR 600,000 when we do this. Well, let's see. And I'm going to build the control mechanisms. Because this is a second chapter I will speak about. To be serious and to see if we really mean what we are talking about here. I mean what I say, I mean it. So, then, the second big part is this. Now, for what you are asking me, if we are to ban imports of lamb and eggs, no, we will not ban them. I would point out, however, that the checks are carried out and carried out. They're border checks. They are linked to public health and public health. However, as you can see, I can tell you later of the greatest detail, where each introduction is located. You ask me whether we will support the producers of the people's markets. I replied 'yes'. We'll study it. I have to say to you: this is an exercise - compensation - a little more complicated than what we usually do at the Ministry of Rural Development. Because in the Ministry of Rural Development, we do not compensate lost commercial income, that is, income from the sale. We're compensated for production. So this, because it specializes in a certain way, has a technical difficulty. We will be dealing with it, at any rate, and we will do what we have to do. In order to secure the right to move, the solution which will now be given is what I said before: Producers who say they live in the marketed region, namely the people's market, in which they want to participate, but who have relatives or others that allow them to be loaded, without being moved, from a region to a region. That's the setting. It has been signed by Mr Georgiadis and will be published in the FEK today and will apply. The other issues you raise me are horizontal issues. They must be dealt with, they are issues which they are employing, and I agree that they are matters of production. However, they are horizontal issues and therefore are not related to the treatment of the coronary. In other words, the issue of agricultural oil is not something that arises because of a coronary. It is a debate that we have - I have said my position - and the government looks into it and tackles it in its budgetary possibilities. On other issues, therefore, such as, for example, what you are asking for inhibitions, you will agree with me that a suspension horizontally makes no sense. Inhibits where we see affected sectors, fishing, flower producers, we put their branches in. However, we must find sectors affected, and indeed, affected beyond a limit, where it is not enough - I say it otherwise - to support them with State aid in order to cope with or make up for their lost income. You raised the question of liquidity. That's what's concerned and that's important. So what needs to be done in terms of liquidity is - and it is a debate that we have with the European Commission at the moment - that agricultural and fisheries enterprises must enter the support measures through the credit tools built up within the ESRB. This is a mechanism next to the Ministry of Rural Development. It therefore needs specific provisions, which we are in discussion with the European Commission, in order to ensure. I sum up, saying that so far the image of the primary sector has been a satisfactory picture. It has asymmetry and difficulties, but we are intervening and confronting these asymmetry and difficulties. I want producers to know and I say this with great responsibility from this Step, that we are following in detail the course of each production, prices, quantities, and know that where we really need to intervene and we are not going to let there be a productive problem in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. We leave a little more time to everyone and to speakers, so that there can be a more thorough debate. I am watching the debate and I understand that COVID -19 has done many side effects in ideologies in general. We've changed a lot of issues all to what we knew until yesterday. We are now continuing with the third with number 620/6-4-2020 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems and shortcomings in the hospitals of Western Macedonia in the face of the koroni pandemic". The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, every day through the official briefing we watch the coronary spread slowly, but nevertheless stable and particularly threatening throughout the country. Of course, the region of Western Macedonia to which this question relates, but the question could be easily generalised for the whole of the country, is literally in the eye of this pandemic. And so the insecurity grows, the anxiety grows, but also the indignation of the people of the region, as well as of the health workers. The reason? Simple. In the face of such a real threat, the long-term shortages of public health structures in personnel, infrastructure, equipment and protection and self-protection are emerging. In this dangerous situation, you see, all governments have led to public health, with zeros, cutting each other every time, one after the other, the necessary financing of public health. As throughout the country, in western Macedonia, the situation in public health, Minister, is at its limit. I could say it's dramatic. See some examples. Even with the existing inadequate organograms for their service, in the five hospitals in the region of western Macedonia, as well as in the EKAB, there are too many vacant posts and major deficiencies around or at least, sometimes more than 40% in personnel, both medical and nursing. Now, for the needs of this region, in which there is one of the biggest outbreaks of the coronary pandemic, at the moment, you know that, too, only five beds of intensive care units are operated in Ptolemais and, respectively, five beds of care facilities, which of course are not Ptolemais, such as ICUs and negative pressure chambers, in Kozani. And let us not talk about the necessary personal protection instruments for health and, above all, about those instruments that are specialized, protective, so necessary for those who are every day on the front line of this battle, and those instruments which are given, when they are given, literally following orders from the administration with the dropper. When is this all happening? But in the present state of pandemic with the conditions of being extremely demanding. Of course, we must not forget, and as far as we are concerned we do not forget, the constant needs of the sufferers in time, and of course the usual health incidents that exist anyway. So we ask you, Minister, directly: will you at last give money to work as the hospitals, health centres and the EAW of the region and the whole country should, however, with permanent staff? So subsidiary and contractors are now directly permanent. And because they, as you well know, don't get there, they need to hire permanent doctors and nurses in all specialties and all grades. First of all, throughout western Macedonia - we say throughout the country - will you check private clinics? Will you put the private diagnostic laboratories in full control? Or will you let them and will you allow them in the pandemic to "harm" the public health system? Will you necessarily include all self-employed doctors in a state-owned plan for the free treatment of all patients, patients not related to the coronary epidemic, health centers, regional doctors and home visits? And the question, Minister, is: If you do not do all of this now, when will you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delia, allow me to correct you first because you said the pandemic is spreading in our country. The pandemic doesn't spread in our country. The pandemic is limited to our country. I would like to agree with what you mentioned in your question that in today's exceptional situation the conditions are demanding. Indeed, they are demanding, they are very demanding conditions, and despite the problems, the distortions and shortcomings of the national health system, this government has done some things properly and you must recognise it. The measures that we have taken not only limited the spread of the virus, but also made the National Health System operational, so that today it is able not only to serve our fellow citizens who are suffering from the coronary, but all the citizens who need it and that seems to us. Hospitals keep up to date. Health centres all over the country serve the world. We have anticipated measures and actions to serve vulnerable groups of the population, such as chronic suffering or elderly people, in order to make intact prescriptions and the transport of medicines to their homes, not to be afflicted in these difficult times. Who's the best person that can confirm what we've done? The international media are warmly referring to the results we have achieved so far. It's a collective effort. The citizens welcome the measures and decisions of the government and the majority of the political world also welcome these measures that we have taken. Because it's a battle we all have to win. Let me refer to the important moves in the reorganisation and redevelopment of the National Health System. Yes, you said so too, there are distortions and deficiencies from the past, but in very short time we have managed to deal with these deficiencies and take measures, make decisions, equip the National Health System, hire staff and strengthen the National Health System, so that not only can we overcome the coronary crisis, but the next day the health system is even more functional, even more efficient, even more efficient, and responding to the health needs of the whole population. We developed new intensive care units in a very short time. We developed beds exclusively for the use of the coronary. We reorganized the structures of primary health care, so as to better serve the coronary citizens. We've approved subsidized recruitment. We have exceeded the original goal and the majority of this world has been hired and recruited every day. We have stressed that the nursing staff who so much need the health system will remain in the health system after the crisis. As far as subsidiary staff is concerned, we have said that we will gradually turn AS's positions into permanent posts so that with crises we can pay the gaps that the National Health System has. We provide the services free of charge to every citizen suffering from the coronary and we cover all needs. Of course, we have a long way to go, because, yes, we have achieved a lot of things so far, but we know that we are at the end of the beginning and need to prepare ourselves, not only for the unfavourable development of the disease but also for the next year, which we will have not only the seasonal flu but also the reappearance of the coronary. Unfortunately for western Macedonia, Kastoria was at the centre of the pandemic. In particular, a significant part of the medical, nursing and other personnel was taken out of service at the General Hospital of Kastoria, which, as you quite rightly said, was infected by the virus. Of course, the numbers are not the ones you mentioned. Twelve workers at the hospital today are on sick leave due to disease. It is a fact that today these twelve people of course are a significant loss to the hospital. But, in any case, the hospital, the structures in Kastoria and the neighbouring prefectures worked sufficiently and served the world in these difficult days when the pandemic hit the region of Kastoria. I must inform you that long before this unpleasant development, the services of the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the 3rd Health Region and the Kastoria Hospital, had taken concrete action, such as the approval and recruitment of auxiliary staff, both medical and other personnel. Unfortunately, there was a dystocia in finding medical staff, because we gave several authorisations, but only one doctor showed up. Fortunately, we have been able to meet the needs of the surrounding areas. First, as we said, we moved personal from the other structures. During the months of February and March nine doctors were moved to strengthen the staffing of the General Hospital of Kastoria. Ten doctors from the countryside have also moved from health centres to health centres in the next phase, of course, and we intend, as things turn out differently, to use the private sector's powers, because in this battle no one is more than enough. Personal doctors with the specialties we need will be recruited, chequed and serve the needs of the system. We have already discussed with the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association actions and measures, which must be taken and, of course, we have already announced actions that we are going to take so that all doctors are at the disposal of the citizen. However, for private clinics in western Macedonia - and not only in western Macedonia, but also throughout Greece - because you have referred to it, I would like to inform you that while this is provided for in the legislative act, which we have voted on, that is to say, the order of all private structures if necessary, already the Pan-Hellenic Association of Private Clinics in its document, has informed us that they are on their own who are at the disposal of the National Health System with all the beds to meet the needs of the ERC, as, of course, and all the large groups of private clinics. There is a plan, but I would repeat once again that this project is evolving and being implemented in the light of the evolution of the disease and, in any case, once again - without any cost to our fellow citizens. Because you have also referred to the financing of the health system, let me say once again that at this critical moment for the National Health System and for the country, there is no question of money. We have taken all measures and there is sufficient funding to meet the increased needs of the National Health System. Mr Delis, the health structures of Western Macedonia have responded successfully at this difficult moment and have the potential to do so even better in the future. The whole sanitary structures of Western Macedonia responded with a sufficient degree and, of course, it is our duty to strengthen it even more not only now in the crisis but also after the crisis. We are conscious of the situation, we know the weaknesses that exist, but we are working every day to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Comrade, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I will finish. You should show a tolerance. You let the pastors get far. We are working on a daily basis to solve the problems and improve the conditions of not only workers in the National Health System but also the inhabitants of the whole region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u97	Mr Colleague, you have the floor and then you will be answered as long as the Minister needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u98	Minister, we have not come here from any mood of sterile controversy and confrontation with you, the Ministry or the Government. However, this does not mean that we will also suffer the flag of claims for what our people are entitled to for their health and we call on the people themselves not to suffer their claims. You made an observation to us at first that we used the verb "expands" for the coronary. I beg your pardon, but every afternoon we see you in the official briefing where the most official new cases, dozens of cases, are reported. Can we agree here that this is a limited spread? Let's agree. But it's spreading slowly, as I said. We're talking about recorded cases, and we're probably suspected of actual cases. In any case, a first comment, Minister, on the basis of what you have responded to your prototype, is that the beautiful picture you have presented to us does not think that it corresponds to the reality of either Western Macedonia or the country. West Macedonia, if you will, is a pilot to the actions of the government on how to deal with an increased coronary intensity. I don't have to tell you much. Just one clue I'll tell you. Let us say about the insufficient number of intensive treatment beds in western Macedonia. The transport of patients by dozens from western Macedonia, from all over the region, in Thessaloniki, which, of course, does not have infinite possibilities, as around a hundred and twenty-five Beds have. We also consider it to be limited, inadequacy and general terms - and today you have diligently avoided the numbers - the measures to strengthen the public health system and, of course, the measures which exist and have been announced - you will agree with us, and the reality - are quite or much behind the needs of today. You refer to the recruitment of ancillary staff, that is, on the expiry date, you are talking about movements - you also confessed to - staff in order to fill the gaps. However, the gaps, Minister, in the public health of nurses and medical staff before the coronary pandemic were calculated with the most moderate calculations of about thirty thousand. Now imagine with the pandemic that these needs have reached. Of course, as we have said, the cause is sub-financing and I am also in favour of sub-financing. It is the same policy in all capitalist countries and, indeed, in the most developed countries, such as Italy, France, Great Britain, Germany, the United States, the whole of the G7. That is why we see every night - every night the planet sees - these shocking images from these more developed countries. I now come more specifically to the Hospital in Kastoria, to which you referred. It's literally declining. It was undersubscribed anyway, now with the shortcomings it is declining. At the Hospital of Kosani, when the coronary pandemic began, by the eighty - seven doctors who had to exist, there were only fifty. The recruitments so far are heard, but they don't see anything. In the meantime, as we have said, western Macedonia has a very large number of cases. He had two communities up to the earliest. I'm talking about Damascus and Dragon. The municipality of Mesopotamia is still in quarantine. In Castoria, we have too many cases. We have proportionally and I think we have the largest number of deaths in the country. Of course, all this, these staff needs, cannot be covered in Kastoria, Ptolemais, Kozani, anywhere in the country, with movements from health centres and regional medical services. In other words, it is not possible - and I am sorry, Mr Minister - for the region of Drazia and Damascus to have the nearby health centres in Chotyli and in Siatista closed down their regional hospitals. It is not possible for Kastoria to move to the hospital staff from the Argos Health Center to close - yes, to close - the district hospital in Mesopotamia, an area currently in quarantine, at the same time that there should be provision and care even for medical and nursing staff, because it is that staff and workers who are the most directly exposed and have proportionally the highest rates of cases. Now, for the sanitary material you say there is sufficient, and we often see in the channels carrying tons of sanitary material, but the sanitary people are literally looking for it in the hospitals, Minister. And in any case, masks are asked for, Minister! They ask for masks and not for the simplest, the most composers, the FFP2. That's all it takes. Musketeers ask for protective masks and not mitigates like what police forces tried yesterday to put them into Evangelism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u99	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u100	I'll close, Mr. President. Thank you. Look, I'll refer to Kosani. The units, the five MF beds to be made IF, how will they work, Minister? Will they work with auxiliary staff? So, will one, two, three - those who need - intensive, cardiologists, anestheticists, who will know that in six months, they will be fired? Is that how it's going to work? In addition, in this molecular biology workshop - which is well done, we voted on it in the region, and it will work there at the hospital in Kozani, because it is a very great need - what staff will this modern machine work? Is it going to work on the diagnostic personnel that will be fired in two or four months? We don't think that's what they're advocating to meet the needs I've told you. What are you going to do, Minister? Two things - and here I really close - we invite you to do. Firstly, you need to fund public health as much as you need. You said you didn't have a roof and you can fund it as much as you need. Now, then, fund it and hire permanent medical and nursing staff. Besides, the money is there. Your government finds them. They were fine for the Canadians, as you gave them EUR 3.5 million for the annual contribution, so that the Canadians would not pay it this year. You have also given some EUR 13 million to the contractors on the national roads, because they now have pots on tolls. Of course, let us not forget the EUR 30 million that you have already budgetd to give private clinical authorities. We, Minister, are talking about an order, not a subsidy. Because, in fact, we are talking about a requisition, the second thing you need to do after the funding is to command the structures of public health, because, you know, there is a picture in Greek society right now, Mr President. On the one hand, you have the public hospitals where people there, the staff, give their souls every day with these incomplete means, on the other hand, you have the private centers, the private health structures, which only care about their profits. We believe that this is inconsistent with the needs of today's society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u102	I'll close, Mr. President. Excuse me. One example I can only give you. What is heard in Thessaloniki about the Diavalcanic, one of the private-health dresses, is that he plans, says, his residual function because his clientele has been reduced. This is a peculiarity of which the coexistence of the public and private sectors leads. Now, then, there is a task of private health structures, as well as the integration of private doctors, who are at the moment decommissioned. We are talking about joining, in fact, the needs of the public health system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u103	Look, because time isn't always telling the truth, I'm telling you I've zeroed it twice. I've been in ten minutes, so I'm telling you. Here, Minister, you have plenty of time to answer as Arcas, because then we'll have another Arkas and we'll have issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u104	Now that I'm short, you give me plenty of time! Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delia, if we don't create the wrong impressions, it's not that we don't have any new cases every day, but that doesn't mean that the virus is spreading. The evidence shows that we've managed to limit him. The most correct indicator in order to have this image is the number of intrinsics and people in intensive care units and the number of our deadly fellow citizens. So we are at a good stage in the development of the disease and we hope that this will continue until the end. Because you said I was trying to make things look good, I didn't do that. First of all, I said that in terms of distortions and deficiencies of the past - time shortages and distortions from all parties in the past - we have managed to overcome many of them in a very short time. It is no coincidence that in almost one, one and a half months since this crisis began, we have opened almost ninety new intensive treatment units and continue to do so. I would like to repeat once again that all services are offered free of charge to our fellow citizens. This government ensures the public health system and will do so in the future, with all the means it needs. You also referred to intensive treatment units in the region of western Macedonia. Indeed, it is not enough and we will turn them into intensive treatment units so that they can be at our disposal if necessary. However, this is a guide to us for the future, so that we can identify the weaknesses of the health system by geographical region and make it even more effective for infrastructure and health services to be provided. You have also referred to the adequacy of the sanitary material. You see what's going on around the planet, we see every day on TVs and on the websites a global war. And little Greece has achieved what they have not achieved large countries. We have sanitary equipment adequacy, but we need to realize that the situation is not as old ago. We can't waste the stuff. There must be a vivid and rational use of this material and always in cases where it is required, because you have also referred to the type of masks to be used. There again, I would like to say that we are following the instructions of the World Health Organisation, the Centre for Infections and in no case will we leave neither the staff working and fighting the health system nor our fellow citizens in need of this material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. The first question under number 613/3-4-2020 will be discussed in the second cycle of the Athens Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on "Problems in the implementation of distance education, delays in the permanent appointments, full Greek examinations and other urgent issues". Mr Colleague, although the questions are many, we will give time - you know why - and you and the Minister. There's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. There is a great interest in the issue that we are discussing, as it concerns all families, the whole of society. There's anguish in the children. It is not often the phenomenon that schools are closed up so long and that you have a social climate so unfavourable that it burdens families not only because of health issues, but mainly because of the imminent major economic and social crisis that children as sensitive receivers already live in it every day, seeing their parents lose their jobs and the state not to take decisive support measures for their families. But let's go to our question of distance education. It is clear that the conditions have made it necessary for distance learning, a process that should have been planned and promoted by governments over time before the crisis. Unfortunately, however, there were technological weaknesses and there was no need for interest. Today, we have to go ahead stressing that distance learning can never replace, but now neither at this critical moment nor at the conditions in which we are going through natural education, self-determination and integrity in the presence of students and teachers in the natural classroom. Of course he can help, but he can't substitute it. It is important that this assumption should be made in the first place. I would like to stress that all households and students and parents have experience of how difficult child access to distance education is. And that happens for many reasons. I've read the evidence the Ministry has announced, the Minister. I don't want to question the evidence, the numbers. But behind the numbers is a bad reality. If the situation is being rescued to some extent - and I do not want to ignore the fact that some kind of communication between the school and the children is being rescued - it is due to the heroic effort, the zeal of teachers, who are without any central assistance from the Ministry, without any substantial central aid, on their own, even by their own means, by their own computers, who do what they can, in their opinion, to have communication with the children, not only to have an educational relationship, but to have the social role of the school in times of upcoming major economic and social crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To them, the teachers who are thousands, who are the great majority, I would like from this step forward to express the gratitude of Greek citizens, children and parents, and to say that their attitude must be an example for the government as well. They should not in other circumstances be stoned, as should the various managers not create conditions of social automation against teachers. You remember what happened at the time of the memorials. But I do not want to make a high-profile criticism. When we say problems, we mean technological problems, which cannot be tackled by recourse to the privatisation of technology systems in mid and elementary education. On the other hand, the government must exploit and upgrade the entire Greek school network rather than enter an American company and undertake distance education. You will tell me 'is this an issue of anti-Frenchism'. Oh, no. It is a matter of risk understanding and risks relate to the personal data of teachers, the tens of thousands of teachers. I put the question directly to the Minister: To get CISCO into the school network and have access to the sensitive personal data of teachers, did you ask the Privacy Authority a question? And what answer did you receive? Or have you ignored your legal obligation? It is obvious that the entire Greek school network with the current capacity if all the computing power of the wider public sector is exploited, can undertake the work of modern education throughout high school. I would stress that he can do so without getting in the way, and with the dangers that I mentioned, CISCO. The system of distance learning gives rise to new inequalities between teachers and those who do not know about new technologies. Unfortunately, in recent years there has been no training. It also produces new inequalities between children who have technological tools in their homes and the others they do not have. A few days ago, 15 days ago, I had contacted the Minister at a teleconferencing conference, I told her that the Ministry should provide timely information to provide from the Ministry of Tablets and data to households, families, children without computers. He said the job could be done on the phone. All right! Yesterday, I heard you sent a circular you're asking for families that don't have a computer. Too late, Minister. Too late! To accept that you have been forced by our question today. No objections, and I would be happy to make that clear, without any intrinsic attitude. But it is too late, because with what you do the year is gone. When will you get them and when will you make them available to the children? Of course, you will tell me that you have a high-speed supply capability if I judge from your website and the telephone centre, for which you have given around 130,000 euros, without making the most of the search for offers. You gave them to a company you chose. Look out! You are a new politician, and you should not be made by old-fashioned methods. Communication policy is essential for informing citizens. But when propaganda is made, and indeed with many questions about economic choices, it is dangerous not for you personally - the importance of you is the least - but in total for the public life of the country. Minister, when we speak of distance learning, it means that we do not transfer the hall's lesson to online operation. This can't be done. There needs to be another conception of lessons, something that cannot be done by one, one teacher separately. It must be organized by the Institute for Education Policy. Really, is that what it is? Why don't we hear it. What exactly does it do in this critical phase and when the new president even gave us a recital modernising education, as he said? Where is he? Well, tell us what he's doing with concrete steps. The institute's out, voiceless. We also need to know that distance learning means specific training for teachers. I hear you've been doing some meetings with some teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u107	Colleague, with all due respect, I would like to say that we have reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. The world is not satisfied. It's not training, it's all. What are you doing on the subject of special lawsuits? Special attention is needed for the psychological support of the children of special treatment, but also for vulnerable groups such as Roma and refugees. What measures are you taking? In calling for your understanding, Mr President, I would like to raise two other points. Pan-Hellenic exams. Children and families are struggling and in many European countries the examinations for universities and schools are being cancelled. What's going on here? It is obvious that the material to be examined by children in the various examinations must be the one taught in the classroom. I have heard one of your own positions, which I consider positive, if that is the case. However, there is the proposal by Mr Mosilos, the professor responsible for the government in international organizations, who, with a structured medical thinking, says that we should open up only for courses and the examinations should be organised in a new way in terms of their length for admission to universities. What do you think of this? And since I do not want to hold an opinion today, I accept that it takes time as a number of data are to be studied, I believe that there should be a televised conference of the Committee on Forestry with the EGE and Mr Tsiodra, who has the special responsibility, where to discuss this issue shortly and before Easter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. On the issue of permanent appointments, do you take the responsibility and the commitment that appointments for September will be made, namely that ten thousand new permanent appointments will be made to education? So far, the assignments of special treatment have not gone any further, they have stumbled. Only the thousand have come from about four and a half thousand. It should have taken place since autumn 2019, nothing has gone forward. You've put your responsibilities in the ADP. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to make progress in appointments. And one final question, thank you very much for your understanding, Mr President. I read in the papers that you're about to file a bill. In this uncertainty that exists in schools today, is it time for you to make suggestions and moves that will bring higher education?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u112	We want an answer if, in your habit and suddenly attempt to table a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Comrade, thank you. Madam Minister, you have plenty of time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. You have put more than twenty questions, unlike two in the Rules of Procedure, but welcome, Mr Philly, your questions. I'll answer as many as I've ever had. I begin with why the Rules of Procedure say that we are also looking at the question that has been tabled, in which you say that 'we have tried to put the system of distance learning into practice and that the situation seems not so pink'. The situation, Mr Philly, is the following and let the citizens judge it. With figures from last week - I stress it because, since then, participation has risen even more - over a million eight hundred thousand, almost a million nine hundred thousand, students' participation in digital classes cumulatively, in modern education. In the asynchronous, full - time school network, nearly one million students and sixty - six thousand teachers were connected. That is the situation which you consider to be bad. More than a hundred thousand students attend daily educational television. In public IEK, Mr. Phile, 84% of courses are enrolled in modern telecommunications and in universities 96.35% are the percentage of courses by means of distance education. These are the evidence. I will put it out in the Minutes and will be able to judge how good these are, in short, to what extent it is good that in just a few weeks the educational process has been transferred to the Internet and how this has been done. I'll agree on one, Mr. Friend, with you. Participation and response are impressive and are due to warm congratulations across the educational community, teachers, teachers, teachers, students, students and students who embraced this project, have supported it, have shown enthusiasm, have given way to achieving the broadest possible implementation of this distance learning. You said 'no assistance from the Ministry to teachers'. Mr. Philie, do you know how many information activities were organised through teleconferencing, which involved over 100% of teachers? Why am I saying more than 100%? Because those who were invited to participate were also involved - and more - in other words, we had not yet reached their prefectures in order not to overload the network and yet wanted to get into the telematics system even earlier. And we didn't stop there. We have set up support teams, Mr. Friend, at the Ministry, which are constantly working, even on holidays, to support our teachers. Yesterday we had over a thousand educational calls, most of which you know what they say, Mr. Friend? "Thank you for giving us these tools, thank you for giving us the opportunity to stay in close contact with the educational community." And they deserve warm congratulations, Mr. Friend, to our teachers, to the staff of education, to the entire student and student potential that has supported this effort. I now come to your questions, because I, Mr Philly, am staying in the questions and specifically answering them with details. Question one. You raised the subject of access to the Internet. The figures are as follows. It is therefore clear from the official data of the EMCDDA that over 99% of the country's households have a fixed internet connection, and even with an unlimited number of data. In addition, however, we have also obtained free access to websites used by the Ministry of Education for distance learning by the three mobile operators, whom we warmly thank. You may also criminalize this relationship, I don't know, but it's a free data supply to our students. And yes, Mr Philly, one can also connect to the phone, in order for the entire range to exist, all the possibilities, it can normally be involved, to ask questions, to regularly follow the course. Question two on equipment. Through the NSRF, Mr. Friend, important technological equipment has already been provided to the educational community. In addition, we have already submitted a request for a total of EUR 20 million under the urgent procedure for school facilities - tablets, laptops - distance learning activities, university equipment, financially weak students equipment, accommodation of financially weak students. We have also submitted a request for funding through the ESRB to recruit three thousand two thousand two-tier psychologists and social workers to support school units amounting to EUR 46 million. Also, we have received significant donations from individuals and companies for further and immediate reinforcement of the technology equipment for the benefit of the educational community, equipment already directed at schools. Question 3, Mr. Phile. You say what steps we have taken to strengthen the public education system. Mr. Philly, I am amazed by this sudden study of SYRIZA for the operation of the pan-Hellenic school network. And I say this because when SYRIZA was a government he chose to leave the entire Greek school network in his luck and condemn it to serious underfunding. Although we have received this, we have taken care of the key support of his systems. So you're probably not well informed, Mr. Friend. From a central server, a server, eClass has been extended to 10, with significant results in the functionality of electronic courses and with the key contribution of both the EDD and the Ministry of Digital Governance. And we've gone further, Mr. Friend, and we've made a request to establish a centralised system-wide system-wide clouds infrastructure. Question 4. You say 'what you are doing about distance learning children and refugees - migrants'. I'll answer you, Mr. Philly, because you might not know that. In cooperation with UNICEF, the guidelines for modern and asynchronous education have been translated into eleven languages spoken in structures: Arabic, Turkish, past, practical, soranian, French. I repeat in eleven languages the directives have been translated for both modern and asynchronous and instructions have been sent to refugee training coordinators to transmit the information below. The Ministry's Services and the Secretary-General are in regular contact with the refugee training coordinators for the implementation of distance learning and, of course, the free access of data from mobile networks to digital platforms used by the Ministry of Education applies. I propose, Mr President, that I continue to do so in my dilemma, so that I do not abuse time, with all the other questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr Colleague, you have the floor, but for less time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u116	Mr. President, may I? I'd expect to hear all the answers from the Minister. This is not a parliamentary class. There are written questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Comrade, wait a minute. Your question was thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u118	Can I answer you? It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u119	Please. The Minister chose to answer. We can't tell her what she's going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u120	The Minister has an obligation to answer all the questions that have been asked to her...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u121	She'll answer her denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u122	...so I can answer my dentistry as well. He cannot have the privilege of the final word without having answered the questions. Please observe the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u123	You, Mr. Philly, were Minister and you know how the process is going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u124	Mr. President, please. I have asked questions. The Minister knows about them. To answer all of them, I'll answer my speech, and then she'll make her own position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u125	Mr Colleague, please move on to your dominance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u126	I don't like these toys. Respect for Parliament's Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u127	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u128	As far as I can see, the situation here is quite strange in the functioning of parliamentarianism. I sincerely regret that confession, which is accepted by the Minister of State, 'I am not answering now, I shall reply afterwards'. Now he had to answer to hear the opponent and he didn't! It's obvious that the Minister lives in her own world. Fortunately, for what he said - I mentioned it earlier - the figures cannot hide the reality. What are students and households pulling to get inside the system, what difficulties are there? What are teachers doing to formulate questions, exercises, to do their slavery. The Institute of Education Policy is unscathed and should have drawn up a specific list of how the courses are done on matter, on how to teach about distance learning. He left it like that. Leave the teachers helpless. It also referred to issues relating to - and I note this - training. What training? The political debates made by the Minister at a distance and the 'CISCO' which gave some 'counselling' over an hour overall? Of course, and there was a zeal for 140%, not only 100% of teachers in these seminars. But it wasn't seminars. The world is disappointed. They didn't help anyone. I could ask more questions. And I could say that we now need a concrete answer. I'll insist. What about the assignments? There's no answer. What's going on? Are you committed? In September, will we still have ten thousand permanent appointments? Leave the responsibility of the AAP, which you are constantly sucking like candy. It's the Department's responsibility. Two. Will you table a bill that will make education above in an environment of uncertainty that lives today? Specific responses. Third. Do you accept that there will be a teleconference of the Committee on Morphic Affairs on the question of the examination of universities with the participation of the EGE and Mr Tsiodra? These are the questions in particular. I could raise other issues. You're talking about the IKUs. Did you pay the instructors to the IKU? Still the long-timers expect their money. I say this, by the way, since you raised it as a matter of fact. There are other issues. I repeat that it is a deplorable debate with a million seven hundred and thousands of children entering the school network, as the Minister says. Some other statistic keeps in mind. I do not want to go into a controversy with the numbers, because it is not the numbers. It's the reality. And the reality is that we have a degraded reality in terms of central planning, but it is saved as long as it is saved from the great effort of teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u129	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I listened with great interest to Mr Philly talking about respect for the Rules of Procedure of the House. Just because I respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I'm trying to respect time, Mr. Friend. Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide for two questions. You've done more than twenty. I will answer them, Mr Philly, but also with respect for time. You, instead of two minutes, talked more than ten. Welcome. So you'll get all the answers. Although, of course, I did not hear any reaction to everything I said to you. I did not hear about the subject of Internet access, the issue of armaments, nor about the issue of the Pan-Hellenic School Network that you had left completely to his fate in the years of your own governance. You are now coming to ask what will happen to the Panhellenic School Network. However, we have taken all the necessary steps. So I keep going. Question Thursday. Remotely educated disablement pupils. A special circular has been issued for the application of distance learning to disabled or disabled students or special educational needs. TEMPUS students shall participate with the assistance of their teachers and with appropriate adaptations to distance teaching and specific guidance on special education teachers have been issued. I also have to tell you that in the context of television, provision has also been made for subtitling and signatories to educational television programmes. The opportunity was given to state the availability and interpreters of the Greek sign language of university education to meet this need for sign language on educational television, which I did not, incidentally, hear a word about. Question 6, on appointments. Mr. Philie, first of all it gives me the impression that you're fighting. You have voted against, Mr Philly, the 2020 budget which included these appointments. You voted against them. And you come here to give up on us. You personally promised, if I remember well, more than twenty thousand permanent appointments, not when you were opposition, but when you were Minister yourself, Mr. Friend. We, Mr. Philly, have moved on. And I've already signed over a thousand permanent appointments. The appointments are progressing normally, Mr. Philly. In fact, the 1EA and 2EA have been completed and signed. For the 3EA, 4 EAA, 5 EAA is expected to issue final evaluation tables after the completion of the audit of the many objections raised by the candidates against the provisional tables. In general education too, temporary tables are expected to be published by the AACC. Complete the registration of the relevant data from the relevant addresses of secondary education in relation to these appointments in general education. Mr Philly, I don't know what you think, but for us, the protection of training staff and of the AACC, their public health and personal health is the priority. So, yes, they are rotating and therefore doing their very important work under these very difficult circumstances. I would like to believe that you will agree with me that their first concern is their personal health and public health in general. Question four, on private education structures. You refer to the question, but you did not speak of it orally. I was surprised that you only asked what was going on with private-sector teachers. Of course we must protect the rights of teachers. We already did it with a ministerial decision. But not just those, Mr. Philly. And other employees of private educational structures, administrative workers, families. Also, the bodies themselves, because if these bodies are not viable, then all people will lose their jobs. We have adopted a detailed decision which also provides for the provision of training contracts. It prohibits staff reductions. It provides that non-provided services, such as transport, feeding, afternoon activities, are not charged. It provides for a number of regulations relating to private education. Question eight. You talked about delays in the IHC staffing with LPD members. You didn't mention all of this. I don't know why. But you wrote them in your question. There's been five hundred twenty-two evolution notices, Mr. Philie. There have been four hundred ninety - four vacancy notices since last year. For the first time, Mr. Philly, we did something you never did. We also made a request for a hundred and thirty-six administrative posts in universities. You never predicted it. So we also anticipated administrative positions. All this is, of course, inconsistent with developments because - I imagine - you will agree there too - that public health is a prerequisite for public health. Regarding the pan-Hellenic exams. I also think it is a good thing that we are in the public debate. Let me say a word because you referred to Mr Mossillo. Mr. Philie, we have the great fortune and great privilege as a government surrounded by excellent experts led by Mr. Chiodra. Those experts are listening. Mr Mosialos is an important member of this overall group. These experts constantly evaluate the data. We respect their work and expect their directions. I have repeatedly spoken about the pan-Hellenics that our constant aim is to carry out them as close as possible to their established date. I'm coming to the next question. Question 15 or 11. I've lost count, Mr. President. You referred to the personal data of the students who are obliged to give to the platform. You're wrong, Mr. Philly. I told you by phone at our teleconferencing conference. But you obviously ignored the answer. Students - we have pointed it out in the instructions - do not have to give their e-mail if connected by navigation software. Only one user name, a nickname, some word for the teacher to recognize them, whatever he chooses. The students' e-mails stay within the school and the Panhellenic School Network. Of course, Mr Phile, the applicable legislative framework for the protection of personal data has been applied literally, as this derives from the European Regulation. Also, you referred to direct assignments. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Philly, you have tabled an extra question. Since you referred to a website, Mr. Philly, I would expect you to be more careful about the project. So let me inform you that this project includes more than twenty videos, television spot, television trailer, a lot of creative materials for the Internet and social media, advertising expenditure to promote all means of distance learning. All of this for high-skilled services, such as videos, directed, animation, how exactly could this be done by the Ministry of Education and, in particular, within this timeframe and especially in the context of which we are at the moment? Mr. Philly, I will answer your question in detail. I will only say the following in this respect. Our main difference, do you know what it is? You baptize them all and criminalize them as political communication. The difference is that for us, citizens' information is an inalienable obligation. We have a duty to inform the citizens, we have a duty to inform the students of the ways in which they can stay in close contact with the learning process. It is the government's duty and this debt will be served, Mr Phile, in the interests of the public interest at all times. You talked about the EPA, and you said it was impossible. Mr. Philly, you don't have good briefings. How do you think teletexts are being done on TV? Who oversees all this process? It is obviously being supervised by the Institute for Educational Policy, which is actively involved in this whole process of distance learning. Mr Philly, I will close with this: you have served in the place I am today and you have the luck not to experience the extreme, unprecedented conditions that we have been called upon to face. It is common belief that the New Democracy Government has responded calmly, organisedly and effectively. Don't make opposition to the opposition. Don't try to find shortcomings where they don't exist. Do not invoke scripts that you know are disturbing the educational community. Mr. Philie, it's a national effort, you get involved in this effort. Try just to see the biggest picture and think over and over parties. Because that is what we are doing, Mr Philly, for the benefit of the entire educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u132	No, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u133	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u134	No, there's no personal questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u135	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u136	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I will reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u138	I'll give you a minute, and I'll interrupt. I'm telling you to be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. Of course, we are all in a position to tackle the pandemic and its social consequences from a different perspective. It is obvious that what we have heard and not answered is an attempt to privatise part of education. It is called 'CISCO'. We didn't hear any answers. Independent Privacy Authority: we have heard no response.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Philly, I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u141	Did you text? Document? Did you get an answer? Who? Not generally what the law says. What did you do? You're in charge of this matter at the Ministry. Who is it? We also heard things out of reality. The Panhellenic School Network was strengthened over the days of SYRIZA in the context of economic, financial possibilities. And now we say that it can play this role and not the 'CISCO' of distance education, asynchronous in high school. We also say, and we know that, that there can now be programming for two thousand digital classes from public school...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u143	I do not reply to the personal words of the Minister. Of course unity, but not without political criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Philly, please. There has been a lot of room for manoeuvre, and I think one can also say that we have treated you with excessive comfort in the time that we have given you, as well as in general in questions. I do not want to go into the points relating to the Rules of Procedure, because the question could be asked at first on the basis of your questions. However, I would like to say to you and to say publicly that we have consulted with the President of Parliament and we have said that, because of the circumstances, we will be able to take advantage of all the possibilities. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u145	I'll be very brief. First of all, with regard to personal data, you obviously didn't like it, Mr. Phile, the answer. The answer is that the applicable Regulation applies in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u146	Do you have a written question? It is unacceptable that you do not give a written question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Philie, you see enemies where they don't exist. I'll ask you straight away. Does it bother you that three providers, private providers, gave free data?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u148	Give an answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u149	Does it bother you that a company came in and free of charge gives the possibility throughout the country, in the one million four hundred thousand students in the country, to have the opportunity to see their teachers live?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u150	You badly advertise it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u151	That's how much it bothers you? So much criminalize the private sector?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u152	For 'CISCO' answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u153	Mr Philly, I'm telling you about 'CISCO'!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Philly, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u155	Mr Philly, 'CISCO' provides this service free of charge! Free for all educational structures in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u156	For the educational sector, the free program...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u157	Please, Mr. Friend, calm down! Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u158	It is regrettable, Mr Philly, at the moment of the great crisis that our country is experiencing, which you see has become leaps in all areas, leaps which our country has not made in individual sectors decades, it is sad to see you, behave in this way, to criminalise the free benefits of the private sector. Alas, if we don't accept them! It would be a crime against the student community not to accept, for example, the mobile telephony providers who give us precisely this possibility. It would be a crime, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u159	Of course, you're giving friends gifts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u160	Please, Mr. Philly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u161	You criminalize and it's sad. I will conclude with the following: last week, Mr Philly, a former colleague of yours, Mrs Sakorafa, who, if I am not mistaken, was once in the same party, she came to me and asked me a timely question, with proposals, with fertile criticism, with specific thoughts and solutions. That is what we are waiting for, Mr Philly, this is what society is asking for all this time. Not a sterile opposition to the opposition. We must all be involved in a major project and say that we must be in the interests of the entire educational community to stand up to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u162	You can answer us for... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u163	We'll all be judged, Mr. Friend the story. We believe that we are making huge efforts for the benefit of the educational community. I put all official information in the minutes on distance education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Today we have exhausted the process. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-08-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, with the consent of this House at no time of 13.37 minutes, the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 9 April 2020 at 10.00 hours on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
