ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 30-6-2020, the Minutes of the ROA meeting, Tuesday 30 June 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Statement of microfinances, financial sector arrangements and other provisions’, were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour to inform you of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 3 July 2020, which reads as follows: COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 864/33/29-6-2020 by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement Mr. Fotinis (Photo) Genuines to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "In a new deadlock in the economy and labour the government's policy leads." A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The opening of a new border crossing and a customs station in Pella". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis under number 869/22-6-2020 on the subject: 'Definition of minimum income and Social Solidarity Benefit of Pensioners'. 3. The question by No 853/24-6-2020, by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for employees in food and transport". 4. The Question No 849/22-6-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'A one-off payment delay in the earthquakes of Zakynthos'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 871/29-6-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Beyond the law and to the detriment of part-time pensioners the instructions of the Ministry." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 865/29-6-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The abolition of artistic courses in high school". 3. The Question No 860/26-6-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of artistic courses from the secondary education curriculum". 4. The Question No 872/29-6-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Exercise injustices for small-scale and pensioners of invalidity and widowhood". 5. The question by No. 868/29-6-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Additional difficulties for teachers in middle-education and foreign languages for receiving unemployment benefits". REFERENCES - Questions - (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingero Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘The employer's contributions to the insurance of his employees, engineers and old insured, 2007-2013.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 5580/74-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The problems of the auxiliary workers of the Centre for the Welfare of Central Macedonia are on track." 3. The question by No. 3703/31-1-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Payment of due money to the Directors and Assistant Directors of the Schools of Second Opportunities". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In a letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be debated are as follows: The question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. Questions Nos 873/29-6-2020 and 876/29-6-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Questions Nos 855/26-6-2020 and 875/29-6-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. Questions Nos 858/26-6-2020 and 874/29-6-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr Dimitrios Economou. The question under number 877/29-6-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr. Konstantinos Skreka. So we begin with the first with number 6367/11-5-2020 question of the circle of petitions by MP Rodopi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Charitou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "It is your intention to promote the reopening of the 'SHELMAN' industry in BIP Komotini". The question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Haritou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone, and good month! Good month, Minister. Seven years after the so-called "SHELMAN" industry, the factory in BIP Komotini is still a modern unit with a strong brand name, ready to refunction and able to withstand the competitive environment. The functionality of the installations, Minister, but also the existence of a critical number of workers with know-how and experience, suggest that the production line can be immediately relaunched with any positive effects for new jobs in the local economy and indeed in an area of particular importance, such as the Thrace region. Minister, you know that there is a sustainable operational plan for the reopening of the industry and that there is an active investment interest in it. I would also like to remind you that all the conditions that you set at your meeting with all stakeholders at the Ministry at the end of 2019 have been fulfilled, as the employees' representatives at least claim. The only undertaking, unfortunately, is that made by your Ministry, that is to say, to act so that the Development Bank can finance the implementation of this sustainable investment project in part. Seven months have elapsed, Minister, from the commitments you made and almost four months since the Prime Minister himself made in Komotini in a meeting of local bodies, on the fact that the investment is on the right track and very soon the industry will open up, but nothing has been done so far and nothing seems to be going on in the near future. Besides, in two weeks' time the bankruptcy proceedings will be stopped and you can understand that we are going from autumn and we are seeing. You are aware, therefore, that the concern of the industrial workers who have kept open and maintain the industry over the years is justified, and that the questions of local society are also justified if it is your intention to reopen the industry. That is why, Minister, I and everyone in the region will listen with interest to tell us why you are so late in fulfilling the commitment you have made to the parties concerned. What steps have you taken to help the Development Bank financially support the implementation of this sustainable project? Is there a problem with the bank? If it is, say it, what? Is there a matter with investors? What exactly is there? Finally, I sincerely want you to tell me what the specific timetable you have for the reopening of the industry is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Comrade, good month. Thank you very much for your wishes, and you and the President. Thank you for the question. I think it is very supportive of the plan that we really have for SHELMAN and I want to tell you what it is and what it is. The Development Bank to date, my dear fellow Member, has not financed and has not participated in a financing plan for any individual company, nor has one. I do not hide from you that it is a decision - certainly by the law passed by Mr Drasakis and the New Democracy has also argued that there is this possibility, under certain conditions and certain conditions - but I do not hide from you that I have decided never to use this possibility, if I do not have the support of SYRIZA, especially because I do not want, Madam President, to have the impression in the Greek society that I am using a tool of the Greek state and money from the Greek taxpayers to serve and help one business towards another, because that is why the Minister for Development and Investment, which is today in this position and tomorrow, may not be. It is therefore major for me that it is recorded today in the House that the local MP of SYRIZA supports the involvement of the Development Bank with money in the reopening plan for SHELLMAN. I take it very seriously. Thank you and he'll help get the company started. I would like to say here that I want to publicly acknowledge to the workers of SHELMAN in Komotini an incredible responsibility, patience, courage that they have shown over the years where the plant has been closed down. Perhaps the Greek society does not know, but it is worth mentioning that over the years the workers themselves have made factory guarding teams, they have made sure they don't plunder, they have maintained it, they have kept it in a state like this that can easily be reopened, making it much more attractive for an investor to appear. Without them this responsible behaviour we would have no hope at all of taking this factory forward. There is indeed an investment interest. The reason why it has not gone any further is that we are in the phase of the so-called proof of funds, the money they have, because, as you know, by the Development Bank Act, we can only put money if there is private participation in the percentage laid down by the Development Bank's legislation. I believe that in the next few days these proofs of funds will have been checked and we will be able to judge this proposal on the Development Bank's board. I am telling you that the Prime Minister's will, but also mine, but as I see yours - and I repeat, it is good - is the factory to start again in Komotini. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I have indeed heard you very carefully. The proposal to support part of the Development Bank is a proposal submitted by the parties themselves, especially the employees, and you have also accepted it from the point of view. I would therefore like to tell you that I have asked you because seven months have passed, and from what I understand it is not just the general reports and undetermined promises. I'm saying that because you can't keep kicking the can from week to week. This has been happening for a long time. That's what the workers say. Good words you praised them, but that's not enough. Because obviously, as you can see, they have no more powers to wait, they are exhausted. I say this, Minister, because you really need to make decisions and quickly. I understand that there are obviously procedures, but the feeling you are giving is that you are obviously postponing it for the future. Because, as I described, the bankruptcy procedure expires in fifteen days. Then it goes from September and we see. Do you, Minister, have you been trapped, probably trapped, in the commitments you have made, and you and the Prime Minister, toward workers and local society and want to get away from them? Because that's what I understand. You do not make a specific commitment, Minister, when it will be done in time. If you want to get away, say it, Minister. It's not bad. But say it so that we know why. Is this about whether the operational plan is viable? I'm telling you clearly, say it. Is this about the bank not financing it, which I've heard is probably what it wants? Is there a problem with investors? Why did you imply that? Say it, Minister, so we know. Everything else, trying to transfer or give general promises, undetermined promises, you realize that is all they don't want at the moment, and workers and local society, in a region that you know is of particular importance for investment to go ahead. There's a need for Thrace to invest. He has investment apnea, Minister. He is under enormous pressure from the northern border from the embargo. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is suffocating. I want, honestly, to tell you that you need to make decisions quickly. You can't kick the can from week to week back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u8	It is very welcome that the pressure you exert and it will be very useful. Thank you again. I do not see SHELMAN as a can and I would like to apologize for the delay, which you are right. At the last meeting we held with investors - you know, these investors have a piece of German origin - we saw them with the Prime Minister on 9 May at the forum in Berlin and we had decided to proceed with the process. But as you may know, almost the next day, the general quarantine was imposed, which ends today. So these people could only communicate with us via electronic means and the process could not go any further in the way we would like. But we're not inactive. In this period they have sent the data to the Development Bank, progressing the so-called due dilligence, that is, the crisis of the viability of the project. But I also commit to your question - and I want it to be heard to be credited by the workers, it is useful what you are doing today - to relaunch the process more quickly. And I would ask you to repeat this question after 15 days, to see where we have been, in order to have a framework, because we want to start the SHELMAN plant in Komotini. We take no distance from this commitment. We want it done. And you know, as a government, when we say something, we mean it. Today at noon, at 12 noon, I will be with Mr Ambassador of the United States, Mr Papathanassis, the investor of 'ONEX' of the Syrian shipyard, in Elefsina, together with the workers and all local MPs, because, as we committed here in Parliament, the process of reorganisation of the Elefsina shipyard is under way. When we say something, we mean it. Well, "SHELMAN" will work and you will have helped in this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 876/29-6-2020, a topical question by Mr. Larissa, Member of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: 'Previous' financing by the ELGA with EUR 1.8 million. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I stand against you because seven years ago, a good morning, an excellent public official, a wholesome, conscientious public official, from your constituency, Antonis Sofanos - good time at which he is present - when I asked him what I was supposed to do because I accepted to be in a hurry to sign the Ministerial Decision on the financing of agricultural cooperative and rural trade union organizations - PASPEGES, GESSSE - urged me not only to rush to sign it early, but not to sign it at all. And that was his suggestion to my predecessors too, because these organisations in the twenty years that were financed with almost EUR 60 million, through the ELGA, state grant, never accounted for what they did with this money. So I did not sign the decision. I told the then Prime Minister Antonis Samara that I would send the case to the financial prosecutor and that I would ask for administrative and financial control from the Ministry of Finance and also from the auditors of the Ministry of Finance. My decision probably surprised our government partners at the time, but it was already a fait accompli. After a meeting with the then Prime Minister, coming out of Maximus in consultation with him, I announced that this money would be given as aid to many families of farmers and farmers. Seven years later, we are in absolute darkness. And it does not honor a rule of law, a favoured coordinate state, the fact that there is no information at all. This case has already been filed, it has been filed, prosecutions have been filed. I wish we could hear something more specific today than you. Seven years later, Minister, none of those who succeeded at the Ministry of Rural Development signed a decision to finance a state grant to the agricultural organisations PASPEGES, GESSA and SYDASE. And we are aware, in 2017, that an amount of € 1.8 million has been disbursed by ELGA for the grant of PASEGAS. And this was on the basis of a strange opinion that no ministerial decision was needed, as was always the case in the past twenty years. And all this is happening, Madam President, when the ELGA, due to the financial difficulties it has had for the first time, has been forced not to give the farmers a one-off payment, but to introduce the 70% advance. There is therefore a reasonable question, Mr Minister. I imagine both farmers and farmers are looking forward to your answers with interest. Was that a legitimate opinion? When and by whom did it happen? Is there a matter of infidelity? Because public officials are committed to defending, protecting public money, the public interest. So was there an opinion on the disbursement of a EUR 1.8 million grant from ELGA to PASPEGES? Who are the signatories? Has there been any damage to the public? Was the opinion legitimate? If not, what disciplinary, administrative or other actions has the head of authority proceeded, the administration of the ELGA and the Minister responsible? Do criminal responsibilities arise for those involved in the case? If so, have they been practiced? We would ask you, Minister, to submit the relevant documents, because as early as 12 March I had tabled a question with request for documents. Finally, and most importantly: Is there any possibility of recovering this money from PASPEGES? If so, how? Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, the facts concerning this disbursement are as follows: that disbursement was made on the basis of a payment order, namely 6079/2017, by the Monomele of Athens. This payment order was issued at the request of the CSCE. And it was issued against the ELGA. Therefore, this order of payment required the ELGA to pay the amount that I will report to you shortly. This amount was paid under that payment order. The big question is why this payment order was issued. I'll tell you the facts and then I'll come back. An opposition from the ELGA was filed against the payment order. Adopted on the opposition by the President-in-Office of the Council. 110/2020 judgment of the First Chamber of Athens, which voids the order for payment. In the meantime, however, this payment order had been executed. Therefore, the amounts paid by the ELGA to PASPEGS had been paid. And of course, there is now a question of reintroducing this amount to the previous situation, so that this sum is recovered from the PASPEGES, but which has been put into liquidation at the moment we are talking about. These are the facts. What is there in terms of action? Because the crucial thing is, how it is possible to issue a payment order against the ELGA. So this also has a legal interest, but also an administrative interest. To issue this payment order - to clarify - there was no ministerial decision. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u13	Was there an opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u14	There wasn't what you're saying, opinion. But I'll tell you what happened. I'm getting into the typical place. There was the execution of a payment order. The payment order shall not be a judicial decision. It is, however, considered to be an enforceable title. It is therefore possible to enforce the order against the person who was the ELGA. How was the payment order issued? The payment order was based on a document issued on March 11, 2016-is 9368-by the then Vice President of ELGA. PASSENS asked her to tell her what the amounts owed by ELGA to PASPEGES, which were due, as you know, by virtue of a law of 2011, which set a certain percentage of the contributions, on ELGA's revenues to be attributed to PASPEGES. It was therefore requested that the PSURES learn the amount of revenue to make the calculation of the amount due. A document, which reads as follows: ‘We shall inform you that, in accordance with Article 14(3) of Law 4015/2011, the ELGA’s income from the special insurance contribution for 2015 amounts to EUR 101,581,389’. Underneath, the official note still exists in this document - because I have seen it - a paragraph which says: 'And at a minimum amount due to PASPEGES amounts to 'tada' under the 'dena' law'. By clicking on this statement in the latter, the Judge of the Monomelis Court of First Instance considered this to be an indirect recognition of debt and issued the order for payment. It was then cancelled, as I said, the payment order, but it had been made at that time. What issues, in my opinion, arise? One issue is this document. The second issue which arises is what the procedural actions that have been taken - I will say in my denunciation a few more things on this issue - in order not to get that order paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr Minister, first of all thank you for the answer. So you tell us that a document by the Vice-President of the then ELGA on July 11, 2016 was the reason for this disbursement. I think that Mr Kurebés, a SYRIZA official today and then have a responsibility during the period of governance of SYRIZA, responding to the debate we had on this issue here in Parliament on the Cooperatives Act, which said that there was an opinion and that this opinion took place a few days before the SYRIZA administration took over. So there was an opinion. I don't know if you know. It is good to see it, Minister, and to tell us who has signed this opinion on which this judicial decision to disburse it has been taken. I ask that documents relating to this dark, bizarre decision be filed in the Minutes. And most importantly, it's interesting to see if there's any possibility of recovery. However, because, Madam President, there is an act of farmers' protest at the ELGA store in Larissa and among the issues raised, Minister, it is also the reform of the ELGA regulation. I have to say two words about this with the tolerance of the Bureau and I have to ask for some answers. We have been listening for years now and particularly in the period of previous governance that there is an imminent study of the reform of the ELGA operating regulation. We hear about a proportionate study and analog study we do not see. Minister, did you find in your drawers a proportionate study left to you by the previous government and do not go ahead with the reform of the regulation? When was it given to whom was a competition for the award of this study, who has taken it, and if there is, anyway, a horizon for its implementation, or is it a Ghost study? Also, because producers put it, in view of the reform of the ELGA regulation, there is also a question of increasing premiums. Already many, as you know, are unable, Minister, to pay their premiums and stay uninsured. Unfortunately, a series of damages, Madam President, are not compensated under the existing regulation. We have damage to the cherries of Agia, we have damage to peas in Platycabo, we have damage to the almonds in Temps. They are sustained damages, producers are desperate and the regulation does not compensate them. Especially for the almonds of the Tempus, Minister, in four years a year they were produced. They are escaping the 2017 MAGPs with almost universal losses that have not been paid to date. In 2019, last year, as you know, there were damages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A slight tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, you will allow me to tell you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u18	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u19	You have asked a specific question and what you are asking is very serious questions, but they have nothing to do with the question you are asking today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u20	But I imagine they are about those who are listening to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u21	Clearly. You ask a second question, and in another year the Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u22	I do not want the impression, Madam President, that you are censoring me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u23	You are an old parliamentarian and you know the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u24	I conclude by saying that these people in 2017 had damages from the ESDP and have not been compensated, in 2019 we gave them de minimis 80 euros covering one third of the damage. It was, in fact, of minor value, the compensation we gave them. And again this year they have damage. Only in 2018 had production. And I wonder how these people can survive. Today there is an article in our local newspaper, 'Freedom', by the former commander of ELGA, Mr Exarch, who, although coming from another party, we have had good cooperation in the period of governance - which points out these issues. The question, too, is what happens with the 35% advance on last year's damage, when it will be paid and what will be done with the reform. Will there continue to be a question of advances? And I close, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance, saying that, in today's press, in Larissa's 'Larissa', Minister, on the occasion of the visit by the Vice-President of the ELGA, Mr Dukas, in my constituency, there are statements by the President of the Turnavo wine cooperative, Mr Chirigos, who says when the commitment you gave him to a meeting to offset contributions and compensation will be made. That's what they're talking about today's Larisa press. Your opinion would be interesting, because I thought you were not that approach. However, since I saw it written and obviously presented as your commitment, I would like to hear something more specific. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask, however, that we limit ourselves to the questions we have asked so that the Minister can answer them. Please because you understand that time is not enough, but we are out of order. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u26	I will, Madam President, follow your recommendation and remain in the process and only on this subject with a clarification. All the rest, indeed, are important issues. There's no time to answer now. Only one clarification I want to make. I have never said that I agree to make a netting of contributions to the ELGA. I've repeatedly said the opposite. So I don't know who understood what he understood. With all due respect in all directions, I have never said that. I have repeatedly made it public at least twice in this Chamber, and said the opposite, and I have explained the reasons. I'll continue with this. As I told you, then, this order of payment was issued, a confiscation was made, the order of payment was executed, an arrest was made and a decision was made later. The problem here is that against payment orders - I am going a little to the procedural party - is entitled to challenge - that is the legal aid - and, at the same time, to apply for suspension. What's the parole request? The request for suspension is that while the opposition is brought before it, because it goes to the regular procedure and takes a later, longer-term trial, and while the decision is pending even when the referral has been tried, the order for payment remains an executive order. So, in order to stop the execution of the payment order, there must be another legal aid, what I said, an application for suspension, in order to stop the procedure. As far as I know, an application for suspension has not been made. Therefore, although the opposition is subsequently brought before the opposition, the ELGA is, in fact, justified, but there has been no request for suspension from what appears here, which will stop the execution process and thus is being carried out. So an issue here that arises is why the request for suspension has not been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u27	The leadership of ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u28	Sure. So it should have been given directly. There is an internal answer that there was a negotiation and discussion between the parties after the order for payment was issued to resolve the matter. Those who have an elementary legal experience know that, unless there is an explicit commitment, in writing, to the declarations made between the Parties on implementation, those declarations are not relevant at the end of the day. They may express good intentions or anything, but legal significance to the practice is not important. So if the other one is speeding up and making the execution and committing the sums into accounts, in fact the statements have been executed and left. Is that what it's about? The suspension always takes place. It is considered to be an indication - let me say - of goodwill that the one who wants to negotiate, consent to suspension until the negotiations are concluded. So that is not the case, and that is an issue that needs to be investigated further. The second question is that this case is pending from the point of view of criminal interest to the public prosecutor. For this payment, then, the prosecutor for financial crime has been seized, and for what we need to do, what ELGA has to do is to see the type of offence, to declare the representation of a political appeal, so that he can monitor the development of the case lawfully. Otherwise he doesn't have the right to keep an eye on evolution, even though he's interested in it. It is therefore necessary to state a political appeal performance in this procedure. On the third question, which concerns recovery, I think that to be realistic it is more difficult, because, regardless of the legal actions to be taken, there is no automatic return procedure, because the money has been given. Money was given under a legal title. Indeed, the title has been cancelled. There is now a procedure, another procedure, which says reinstatement of things in the previous situation or otherwise self-determination from the principle by which the money is being sought from PASSENS, but where, to be realistic, PASSENGER has been put into liquidation and has no assets. Therefore, this will actually be a fruitless process. We'll do it because we have to do it for the sake of order. However, we do not have any illusions about the final real result. I think that, although this procedure is to be done and these amounts will be claimed by the ELGA, this will eventually be brought into the judiciary of the ELGA, there will be a judicial decision which says that it will oblige some to repay the sums, but it will be inappropriate in the execution stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. The third under number 873/29-6-2020 is the timely question of the first cycle of the Members of the Elijah Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The economic consequences for the fruit growers and potato producers of Elijah because of the koroni pandemic'. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, will also answer. Mr. Catarini, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, today's question is targeted and concerns two products, two of the most dynamic crops in the Elias Prefecture. And because I know you want to talk with measurable sizes, we're talking about products that have an annual production of 50 thousand tonnes of potato and even more, bigger production of watermelon. This year, in a difficult year, with reduced arrivals by tourists due to the horn pandemic, there are even less orders in the central European countries, which were traditionally quantity-sharing countries in previous years and, of course, there have also been disturbances in the transport chain for a long time. So while the greenhouse water started with very good omens and a very good price, unfortunately the reality experienced by the watermelons during the past two to three weeks in Elias is dramatic. The selling price is 5-8 minutes per kilo, when during the corresponding period of last year the price was on average 25 minutes. This also applies, Minister, to the quantities sold. Because, unfortunately, several quantities remain in the field and we see producers refreshing in fields with uncut watermelons. The same situation exists in the potato producers: the price is glued to 12 to 15 cents per kilo, with the focus being closed for two months - you understand the consequences - and the imports of potato from third countries, which are legal, but which are even more price-compressing. So the production price is 12-15 minutes while last year it was 40 minutes. You understand the impasse that producers have come to, as they feel helpless and have a great loss of income. At the same time, Minister, we expect - and together we have discussed this - the incorporation of Directive 633/2019 of the European Union, which will finally defend our producers from unfair traders' practices. So I ask you two things: firstly, if the government intends to make use of the financial tools available for various categories of products in the general framework of compensation, to compensate for both the fruit producers and the growers of the Elias Prefecture and all the other regions with similar problems, using the available financial instruments and, if you do, when do you intend to complete the process? Because you understand that time is rival. Secondly, if you intend to increase controls not only by incorporating the directive, but also in fact, in order to protect producers from unfair traders' practices, which in a difficult year find an opportunity to make the already very low prices even worse. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u31	Me too, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, we've detected disturbances both at the price of the potato and at the price of the watermelon. As far as the occurrence of a disorder is concerned, we should firstly see its extent and secondly, we should see it in a commercial lasting. Because with this coronary crisis we have become more wise in these calculations. And what has been seen on several products or - not to say on several products - in some products? That during the course of the pandemic's restrictive measures have internal fluctuations in prices, if you like. You said that. Watermelon, in particular, started at a good price. It is falling, at the moment it has a very low price, but in other products we have also come up again. So the concept of disorder should, firstly, have a sufficient time to take it into account. And that's where I understand the anxiety of the producers, which you're transporting accurately and correctly, they just need to know that they have to have a little patience to see how the product is going to evolve. We can't make decisions week after week, given that this week the price fell, the next week the price was up, the next week it fell again. We need to measure overall how this disorder affects. The second question, therefore, which I would like to say to you, to answer your specific question, is this. For the potatoes we have come up with, I think, or at any rate we are more mature in reaching the amount of the disturbance. Because one more point I have to explain here is that state aid - I have said it several times in this Chamber - is, first of all, forbidden. Exceptionally on account of a coronary is permitted. So the coronary and the exceptional are the critical sizes here. So what does that mean? Exception, but why an exception? Because the impact that occurs and the disorder that is created is because of restrictive measures to deal with the pandemic. Will anyone say: is that not obvious? The answer is that it is not obvious and is not uniform in all products. In the midst of a pandemic there are other products that go very well and have excellent prices, but there are also products which have gone badly and need aid. So the work we do is to link the disorder to the restrictive measures. This must be linked, not for other reasons of trade. If, for example, there are issues of increasing competition that pressure prices, this is not something that is being compensated. So we need this weighting to be done here. And because this may seem to some meticulous, I will say that it has to be, because this aid for being given ultimately needs to be approved by the European Commission. So there goes a file that has to be sufficiently documented. I'll come back to my dentistry to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u34	Minister, I understand that there must be a weighting and a long-term calculation, so that some products have a significant loss of income, more than 10% that you set as a limit for the deviation, so that they can substantiate a matter of compensation. I would like to assure you that as you say about the potato, and it is important that you say that you end up in compensation, unfortunately, and for the watermelon the course cannot be reversed. And why am I saying that? This month, June, was and is the most dynamic month, because most of the exports are made this month. I'll give you an example. In neighbouring Italy this year, a merchant took ninety thousand tons. This year he asked for a thousand tons! This product, watermelon, is currently coming out of the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. Therefore, I do not think that we should be delaying a dramatic change in the selling price by the producer, because we have now lost the two months that have been demanded because of the crisis of the coronary and pandemic in countries that are traditional receptors of this product, and I think that this must be done immediately and with braveness. You have already made decisions on compensation for certain categories. If I am not mistaken - and disprove me -10 million were given to the flowermakers, 15 million to the farms, the wine growers received 25 plus 2, a total of 27. You have a decision for farmers of 31 million. We are of course also interested in the speed with which this decision is implemented, and I would like to see it if you can, although it is out of question, tell us something hopeful, Minister. But here we speak with measurable sizes, and the sizes are relentless. And I know, Minister, that you are a fan of numbers and documentation. Potato producers are going in about 400 to 500 euros per acre, on a crop costing 1,000 euros per acre. I understand you're convinced that they should be compensated immediately. 80% of production has been sold cheaper than last year. And as far as watermelons are concerned, the cost of cultivation is 700 to 800 euros - I have told you the example - and at the same time what you see and say that it is commercial competition, and I call it unfair practice in a difficult export year for watermelon to come by merchants, using the weaknesses of control systems, and to compact even more prices. June, which is the crucial month, has been lost, in May and June, which is a time that has to do with the coronary pandemic, and I think that if you compare the sizes and amounts of the last two - three years you will find that the fruit growers must also be compensated. Minister, with regard to all farmers, in addition to a few minimum measures taken by the government to strengthen them in the middle of a pandemic, such as the suspension of the trade fee, the suspension of the important ENPI tax, some of the minimum facilities, not the ones that must, in the case of tax, insurance and lending bank suspensions or exemptions - there is one complaint - I think that it is also directly relevant to the issue of potato producers and fruit growers who have been affected because of the coronary pandemic - and that is quite clear - to make the decision immediately. Because I know that the resources are not unlimited, and I understand that the problems too are too much. So what do we want and I shall end, Madam President? Priorize and give Elias, which you know very well and you are the first prefect of Europe in rural specialization and has a great deal of room for real development in the primary sector, to give an oxygen, so that young producers can continue to cultivate and do not give up because of a very difficult year their crops, hopes and expectations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u36	Let us close this particular issue a little. For the potatoes we have done our homework, we have gathered the necessary data and, therefore, perhaps in the next week, we will have communications on the level of aid and what exactly we are going to do with the potato. So, then, that's something specific. With the watermelon we've moved forward, we're doing our study, but we're going to take a while to see how the course will turn out. I would like to tell you that we will often need further documentation, as I have said. For example, I was now born with your argument that, because we have a dramatic decline, you say, of exports - I will see how great this reduction is - to see what it is that has played a role here in reducing exports, given that, on the one hand, the trade channels are open and we no longer have the impact of closing the focus areas. So we need to see why there is this reduction and what it is that is a problem. So, in any case, we have work to do. You know we're gonna get out of here. I come a little along the lines which are the following and have explained the reason why this work should be with this, if you like, as well. This work is not a political issue. I understand that other times may have become accustomed to all of us and our producers in a process of political negotiation that took the following features: "We were damaged, Minister. Yeah, guys, what's the damage? We had 20 million. Oh, I don't have 20 million to give you. Let me give you three. No, don't give us three. Give us 5 to close." This cannot be done because it is not the way in which the aid is calculated from now on. Therefore, everyone must come with their data, with their arguments, with their numbers, with their amounts, in comparison with the previous three years, to substantiate not only the impact but also the cause of the impact and the cause of the effect, and this causal relationship must arise to bring a documented dossier to the European Commission and not be considered as unlawful aid. I would like to close by saying this: know this, there is neither a branch nor one which has been affected and either strengthened either in the form of an aid procedure or not to examine its request. Why can I do that? I can do that because sufficient money has been made available so far. And I want to tell you that I do this in this way and with this attention so that I can have the following comfort, Mr President. Not to be able to ask me properly and reasonably - because there are consequences and because we have a difficult summer ahead of us and the tourist season is opening today for our country, and I hope that everything will go as well as possible, but we all know that we will obviously not have this summer, there will be an impact - to see how there will be any impact if there is any impact during the passing period, during the summer in the agri-food sector - I hope that there will not be one, but I must see it - and, therefore, how exports go and what 'not enough tourists' mean and what it means to our exports. Does it mean more food consumption abroad? Does it mean substituting those who would consume Greece with others? Does it mean a corresponding reduction in food imports and, therefore, changes in internal mechanisms, that is, in the internal relationship between producers here and abroad and imported? So all this is critical sizes to see how they go in the next two months. But I do not want and I am not going to find any point here: a sector should have been affected, a sector should be rightly and reasonably asked to be strengthened and I am not going to have any money to support it. This means, however, that precisely because, as you said, the money is not endless, and a concrete and structured approach to this issue will all be as it should be. And because you are asking me the question of time, of knowing and of knowing that, from the time the decision is taken - we are taking a decision on aid - until the time when these amounts are paid, the procedure lasts for about two to three months. Depending on the procedure, if it is de minimis, if it is State aid, whether it will be the new measure of the Rural Development Programme, that requires even more time. So you know, however, that about the time period is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u38	For the stockfarmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u39	For farmers, the decision will be issued and go to the General Accounting Office within the week.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u40	We move to the second under number 858/26-6-2020 on the first question of the Greek Parliamentary Second-Thessaloniki Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The consequences of the social resale of the Government of New Democracy". The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Dimitrios Economou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes. I would ask, as far as you can, for the relative tolerance, because we have legislative work afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u41	Good morning and a good month. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, another surprise about your presence today. The question, Madam President, has been tabled to Mr Hatzidakis on an issue which has more specific reference to energy. Mr Hatzidakis chose not to come again, but not even to the Minister responsible, Mr Thomas, and to see Mr Economou, who is responsible for spatial planning. I don't know if Mr. Hatzidakis wants to punish Mr. Economou, us or Mr. Thomas. This will be shown by the history of the future. However, you are here, Mr Economou, to answer a question concerning citizens' access to the good of energy that is outside your competence. But let's get them in order. The pandemic created new social conditions, created what we say a great difficulty in society to meet its basic needs, work and the provision of basic goods. And unfortunately, during the pandemic period, we saw a multiplier of phenomena of inability to access the good of energy for many social groups, either vulnerable social groups, chronic patients, long-term unemployed or affected by the pandemic of social groups, such as the tragic incident that the TEND cut the current on many social groups, such as shopkeepers and entrepreneurs who were forced to close down because of the pandemic with the first unpaid account. On 17 March we, as SYRIZA, took an initiative and contacted Mr Hatzidakis personally and asked for no power cuts to take place during the pandemic period and for the state to obviously cover costs for vulnerable social groups and groups of workers or entrepreneurs to be found at this time. Because unfortunately, or if you wish, our state has the opportunity to meet these needs at this time. Unfortunately, society is also affected by pandemic. But the government is coming to multiply the blow to society by displaying a tragic social analgesia. Therefore, instead of putting this proposal into practice and incorporating it into practice, the government and the Minister are coming and expanding, deepening, if you like, the results of the crisis in society with wrong choices that magnify the lack of access to the good of energy. It announces two months later - and here is a key problem - the tool to re-energise the so-called Reunion Fund established by the SYRIZA Government with legislation, if I am not mistaken, of 2017. It announces a very small activation, i.e. a thousand and fifty vulnerable households or households affected by the conditions. But we find that the joint ministerial decision on this announcement almost two months later, one and a half months later, has not been activated. In other words, three and a half months after SYRIZA's proposal, four months after the pandemic began, there is only one deception by Mr Hatzidakis, the announcement of a Reunification Fund that has no ministerial implementation decision. We are asking right now where this ministerial decision lies because they are increasing the incidents, such as the recent influx of the mother of an unemployed employee in Rhodes, to cut the current on people and families affected by the pandemic. So the question for us is very clear: What does the government intend to do to help the social groups affected, not to stop electricity being stopped at this critical time, to be able to strengthen the Reunification Fund, i.e. to give more reconnections to the possibility of financing and adopting the respective ministerial decisions, because we need overall measures for society and for the good of energy? And I'll come back if anything needs to be done next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. You have used magistrates, Mr Papoutsis, and heavy expressions, such as deception. I won't use corresponding phrases, at least in protology. Let's see what the real facts are. The crisis of the coronary in Greece began at the end of February 2020. When the crisis started, no one had any idea how long it will last, what consequences it will have and therefore what measures must be taken to address a problem that was unknown. So we had to deal with the problem with a seriousness, not fireworks. What did the ministry do? He did something first that is not mentioned in the question, but it is the most important one. It ensured that there would be no supply deficit on the market and consumers as regards electricity and fuel. That was extremely essential, because if we had such a thing, all economic activity would collapse in the country and not just everyday. This has been achieved. There was no such problem really. I would remind you of the situation in which PPC was located less than a year ago when the current government received it from your own, which was then under collapse. Imagine if the government had not changed then and PPC had collapsed, what would have happened today, if we had such a crisis that no one expected. At the same time, the second part of the Ministry's priorities was to alleviate households, especially those with objective difficulties due to low incomes or other special circumstances. What did the ministry do? Firstly, it asked all electricity providers to go ahead with the public's alleviations. This was done, all providers did. The citizens have, therefore, been really facilitated in terms of the cost of electricity. At the same time, we announced an extension of the UN special account on May 18 for vulnerable households, increased the protection net for extreme cases, not for strategic malpractices. I remind you what happened in the past. The joint ministerial decision to which you referred will be adopted within the days. And this joint ministerial decision was not something that could be done at the foot, it needed preparation and, above all, we needed to have the real picture of the problem, the dimensions and the prospects. So what you mentioned about analgesia and communication measures is not true. We have taken real measures and have done everything possible and possible within the specific data so that we do not have any particular problems for consumers. You referred to the mother in Rhodes as well. I imagine you are referring to the lady who publicly thanked the Prime Minister for his immediate response yesterday. You did well to remember, it actually shows once again that the government has reflexes. Thank you very much. I'm going to continue on secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Secretary, you have not avoided mistakes. It makes sense, because I told you you weren't in charge. But after you started by ensuring that the government has provided energy and fuel, I would like you to tell me which other country in Europe or globally had a problem of energy and fuel supply at this time. But I will tell you that the regulators in the Mediterranean had ensured that consumers were not switched off, i.e. other governments since March that we introduced the measure had already been able to organise the measures proposed by SYRIZA and tabled it in public. But you have come and announced in May a measure necessary for the Reunification Fund. SYRIZA had implemented it under his own legislation. They are specifically to Law 4508/2017 for which you have not yet made the ministerial decision. And, Madam President, that is why you see such expressions being used. Yes, Mr. Economou, it is a communication game to play with the need for people who cut their power, to announce two months after the pandemic on 18 May that there will be a special account and to come to Parliament today on 1 July and to say that there is still no ministerial implementation decision. That is, Madam President, to record. First July there is no ministerial decision for only a thousand and fifty households how the electricity will be connected. It's tragic, Mr. Economou, to say that. It's not just social analgesia, it's political fraud. Because it's not just the final mess. Did you announce something two months ago that you do not know how it will still be implemented? But you play with the need of people and you also use plays, which don't match you. So you say: "PPC was under collapse. What would happen today if the previous government continued?’ I'll tell you what. Firstly, they would not have applied to citizens who cannot pay 500 million unfair increases -500 million from 1 September 2019 for no reason - to go out now and say that PPC will have profits. So you're cutting off the power on people who can't pay for PPC's profits? And why are you not using the possibility today that the cost of energy production is half the cost of selling, to help the Greek economy and the Greek households? Because now to start, we need cheap energy. PPC today can play the role of the country's energy pillar. It has half the cost of production from the selling cost. So it can strengthen both Greek industry and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and households where the electricity is cut off. But you are acting as an energy policy, but you are not energizing the reconnection fund. However, I can certainly say to you, Minister, that if it were still SYRIZA government, firstly, PPC would not have any Golden Boys with a fee of five times as much as the manager - Mr Skrekas knows well - it would have been a member of the relevant object - it would not have a privatised energy network that you are selling now, as would have a reunification fund, because it would have applied SYRIZA's policy. Because I have to tell you that we set up a tool for six and a half thousand households at a time when there was a positive labour index, a positive GDP index, and we were in the memorandum, and we could even then create the Reunification Fund. You now have a negative unemployment rate, a negative GDP ratio, without the limitations of the memorandum, a ministerial decision that you have been writing for four months since the pandemic and the other Mediterranean countries have made progress in these measures! And I cannot, Madam President, say anything about charity towards the lady whom Mr Economou has used as an example. Take note, we set the example of an unemployed hotel officer because we believe it is the right of all citizens to work and access to energy. You consider charity and grace to have a job for a lady, but we are talking about whether all citizens will have access to work and all citizens access to energy. And obviously, we're not talking about the poor payers and the batterers, because they're the ones with whom you usually make deals to privatise the networks and give PPC, the DEDEN, the IPTO, and the natural gas network. So there's a big difference here, Mr. Economou. The neoliberal New Democracy does not see work and energy as a social right. We believe that work and decent living is a right, and that right we tell you to announce how it will be implemented. Four months at the pandemic we do not know the ministerial decision, no one has gone to the Reunification Fund, the current being cut by vulnerable social groups. We have plenty of incidents in Thessaloniki for the long-term unemployed, sufferers who need the fridge to have the medicines and cut them off. They need 'artists' and they make their own reconnections poorly because they cut off the current and they don't have a job because of Mr. Mitsotakis' policy. And I'm asking you what you're gonna do. We know very well what we did to PPC. We have reduced at least one billion of PPC's lending to us by the government that participated and the one who was appointed to you. The secrets are well said, but they are spoken out loud in the Chamber. So here we need something specific. PPC today can be the country's pillar of energy security, not only a centre for increases and holidays. It has the potential today to support households and businesses. And we are asking to know what measures will be taken in particular and in terms of price policy, but also in terms of social policy, because, unfortunately, holidays are still going on, Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Comrade, please. You've been talking for five minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u47	Do you have anything specific to tell us? Tell us in particular when the ministerial decision will come out and whether you will strengthen the Reunification Fund, because that is what society needs, not increases and privatisations made by your own government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u48	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Mr. Femello. He gave me a lot of hits. I don't know what I'll do to answer all this. Firstly, I am surprised that you referred to the neoliberal Government of New Democracy. Until recently she was an extreme neoliberal. Suddenly, she's just a little stiff. This is progress. I do not hear the 'extreme' lately. You said about the other Mediterranean countries. Was there an automation, because, let us assume, in the other countries there were no such problems, would there also be in Greece? To do this, someone has to act. The government acted in Greece. The fact that the rest of the countries did it, well they did, but that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u50	That's why you want some applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u52	...doesn't mean that what's going on in other countries is going to happen to us. I would remind you in the first half of 2015, when all the European countries that were inside the Eurozone remained in the Eurozone, and we reached the edge of the cliff, thanks to the smart negotiation that you had made at that time on the bluffs. So there is no automation, that because something is happening abroad, it will also be done in Greece. There must be a government seriously to do this. Let's see what the real problem is, because you talked about big words, etc. Let's see how many connections have been cut? In the period from March to June 2020, some seventy-five thousand requests were submitted by providers to the DEDEN by the providers to the DEDEN. Of this, forty - eight thousand were accepted. The rest was rejected. At the same time, some fifty thousand reunification requests were executed by the DEDEN. Of these some forty - three thousand related to vacations, which had taken place just in the previous period, again at the request of the providers. So 90% of the holidays during this period were reconnected and in the rest of the 10% we do not forget that there are also strategic poor payers. So those who really didn't reconnect eventually are very few. These are the real facts, from there on, great words can be said by anyone about humanitarian crises, etc. But let's see what the reality is. The reality is that. From there on, we can see some other interesting things. On 17 March, SYRIZA asked that no interruption of gas, electricity and water supply should take place on 17 March, when we were not yet aware of the course of the coronary crisis and when we did not know what overall amounts the country would need for all the fields and sectors that would be affected. You forgot, I think, then that the money tree is no longer there and you rethinked that for a certain field we might start cutting fruit from the money tree to deal with the problem in this particular field and not do anything about the others, because there was no sense of exactly where the crisis is going to arrive. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] So we had to move carefully and with certainty. However, measures were taken, and as I have shown you, with the information I have given you, the real holidays were minimal. There is also the question - I don't know, you may have said - that: 'The government's social analgesia hides services from day ones', and I suppose this is also linked to what you said about fraud. Is it possible for you to speak today, at today's juncture, about day care? The "magaz" has been closed. The "magaz" is no longer serving because the "magaz" is elsewhere. Speaking today, at today's juncture, in the last ten days that have become well known what happened during the SYRIZA period and at times partners of the SYRIZA government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u53	What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u54	What really happened is challenging, but if you like it, we don't mind. What you remember all over the world is what you did. And to go to one last... I beg your pardon, Madam President, but also because the honourable Member has taken more time, I shall refer to another point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u55	Well, it's wild to answer me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Comrade, please. As you have said, the Minister speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u57	I did before asking what would happen if, in spite of hope, the government today was SYRIZA and you answered various things. I remind you what happened when SYRIZA was called to deal with real crises. The first crisis was in the first half of 2015, which we almost got out of the European Union. The third memorandum was destructive and useless and is due to the first half of SYRIZA. There was no reason to impose the Greek economy at 200 billion more real costs of this fine negotiation. So they went to the third memorandum without any reason. Also, another highly successful crisis management by the SYRIZA government is Matty. We remember that. The anniversary's on the way. And there you have proved that when something extraordinary arises, your reflexes are excellent and you face any problem in the best possible way!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u58	That's why you put a secretary-general...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u59	To close, therefore, on the subject of PPC, I repeat that if PPC were to go bankrupt, Greece today, not just because of the coronary - and even before and because of the coronary - would have been in a dramatic situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u60	Did you do something for people?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u61	We managed to bring PPC up despite the ruthless situation in which you gave it and PPC was one of the factors that allowed the country to do what the other Mediterranean countries did, that is to say, to have no problem supplying electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. I would also like to ask my fellow Members, but also the ministers, to remain in their time, because the time has already passed and we have legislative work. We continue with the fifth under No 874/29-6-2020 top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Without appropriate specific study, environmental crime continues in the port of Piraeus". The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou, will also answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, the projects for the expansion of the port of Piraeus are huge. We are talking about a project, a pier which goes out to the Argosaronian, to the Peeraic, to welcome at some point seven, perhaps more, overcrowded ships. We are told by the Citizens' Counsel, the Council of State tells us that the European directives require a strategic environmental impact study, for all the projects envisaged by the Piraeus Master Plan. Your Government goes on - and the previous one, the SYRIZA government, proceeded - to licensing, to allow these works to be done and celebrated with 'COSCO' their opening without the necessary studies. At the moment we have sinking, i.e. divestment works. All these toxic and dangerous sediments that have accumulated in the port of Piraeus for so many years, "COSCO" illegally took them and threw them in various places in the Argosaronic, without any study. In the only study that has been carried out, the PPEE informs us that the methodologies applied are inconsistent with international literature and international guidelines. Specifically, the study methodology applies in cases of land deposition, while this study provides for the disposal of sinks in the marine area. Minister, now that the Council of State is also suspending this illegal process, we finally want you to come out and tell us what quantities of sinks have been unlawfully rejected and in which areas they have been rejected. Because even this irresponsible study provided for specific areas of rejection. Tell us where they were rejected? What criminal sanctions will there be and what are the sanctions to which you have advanced for the illegal work of 'COSCO' that the Council of State has stopped? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u64	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Let's see the real facts. You said that these work was done without environmental authorisation. There is a first environmental licensing, which took place in 2013 and a second environmental licensing about two years ago, in July 2018, by the previous government. So there was environmental permits. They didn't do without environmental permission, first the prisoner. Second, you're talking about illegal proceedings. Look, a procedure is illegal when it is characterised as such by an appropriate procedure, i.e. by the courts. Until then, we don't have any illegal procedures. What happened is there were complaints recently made. When exactly? The central port office of Piraeus has issued a licence - it is very recent, so I would mention the date, to be clear - to discard waterfalls on 11 March this year. There were complaints then. An audit was carried out by the Environment Department of the Regional Unit of Piraeus and the Islands. It became an autopsy on May 15th, that is, very recently. Some first finds emerged negative from autopsies. And then the Council of State also proceeded to suspend work. All of this is reality. It is not the government's responsibility, nor has it done anything that is contrary to the law or contrary to common sense. Complaints have been made. The normal procedure followed. The Council of State, as it has a right, is also its role, has intervened and sought suspension. And there's been a parole. There's nothing illegal. The illegality would be if the actions continued after the suspension. Nor can we, when we do not have anything illegal, impose sanctions. To impose sanctions it must have emerged in a normal procedure that someone has committed an illegality. When it emerges, sanctions will of course also be imposed. At the moment we cannot impose sanctions on something because it is simply being said. There's got to be a formal confirmation. From there, on the basis of environmental impact studies, it was determined that it would be needed for dredging about three thousand cubic metres in total for the whole project. What has been done so far is a hundred and fifteen thousand cubic metres. That is about a third of the initial estimated quantity. So there has been no overrun in this matter either. I'm going to go on with the rest of the issues in my denture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, we finally have to stop this story. You want to play the role of the government's "scientific alibi". There is no body, there is no institution of this state that does not say that these projects are illegal. The text of the Citizens' Co-rapporteur says that the strategic environmental impact study, which had not even been submitted to the IPA, is provided for by Community Directive 2001/42, and is necessary for projects such as this. So you are talking about an environmental impact study of a GDP which has been illegally renewed since 2006. The largest port in the country has the same environmental conditions since 2006. And instead of telling us "I am ashamed of myself as State Secretary for Planning" you're coming to defend this thing? What will you then teach your students? You're saying he has negative findings and we haven't caught the PPA doing illegal acts? What more does he need? That the auditors went and tracked him down to illegality? What are the negative findings that you presented otherwise? We have after the CONTROL, which is the state's official body on marine research issues. It tells us that the environmental impact study that you have approved with an extension of both governments - but now you are a State Secretary - on the environmental conditions of the PPA is completely incomplete. It is based on an unprecedented methodology. A lady from the Polytechnics University took the methodology for solids and applied it to the seabeds. Such studies approve the Ministry? So all these works come out that we see by the winds next to the vortures and the ports with a deeper toxic and problematic sediment, which has been documented by the ELCETE and will be thrown into the Argosaronic and will be dispersed into the beaches where there are bathers? We invite you, Minister, to stop this illegal work. You must listen to the case law of the Council of State, the decisions of the Citizens' Counsellor and European legislation, before we can again pay fines for all of us - because it is from the public budget - for the favors you are doing in 'COSCO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. You still say inaccurate. I have answered that environmental authorisations have been carried out under the legal procedure. It doesn't mean that it makes them illegal. There are specific procedures through which someone can appeal to the competent authorities of the state in order to appeal against a GNP which is illegal. This has not been done. Now if you say it's illegal because you look that way, it's your right, but it doesn't really make it illegal. That's the first point. Secondly, for research and studies. The study of the National Technical University in 2017 what did he do? Firstly, it established that there was no pollution in the marine environment with laxity tests under Decision 2033/33 of the European Community. On the basis of this decision, this method - not methodology, it does not say the methodology, it says method - has been applied. It also identified the samples with respect to their risk, based on Annex 3 to Law 4042/2012. That's what this study did. These are the official procedures and methods used by the Greek state and used in the European Union. These have been implemented. If anyone objects, of course, he may object, but we must follow a serious procedure to overthrow this investigation. You, too, refer to the text of the question, there is the strangeness of the fact that it is a given one. It is a pretext that it has been shown that the polytechnic research is wrong. How is a given? What really happened? What has happened is that the investigation was carried out in 2017 and now in 2020, the Works Association of PPEH found, in its view, three years later, that this research is not methodological - here it is methodological and not methodological - well. They remembered it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u70	It's inaccurate. THE CONTROL said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u71	They said, in their view, why they did not investigate themselves. For a research that has carried out all the legal and anticipated procedures three years later, they thought there was something methodologically problematic. Three years later. And they didn't investigate. This is a complaint from a working association. It's not the ETA. So that's not evidence. And really when three years later, they have now remembered that the polytechnic research is methodologically unsatisfactory, it really is not a serious argument. And obviously that is not the case, the fact that it is a given that this research of the Polytechnic is problematic, three years later. In any case, what has the state done with regard to PPE which is indeed the state’s advisor on these issues? He sent the request for renewal of environmental conditions and for environmental study, which is currently in place - in a process, to the PPE-DE for an opinion. He's sent it to the D.C.E. We're waiting to see what the PPE is going to say. Not at the workers' club, of course. This is a scientific issue and not a trade union. Each institution has its own competences. A trade union is involved in trade unions. The workers' association is not just the scientists, it's everyone, it's just. The scientific aspect is the responsibility of the PPEC as a whole. And in PPE we sent the environmental impact study. So, I think it's overreacting all you're saying. There is nothing else we can do before it turns out to be illegal. The decision of the Council of State shall apply in full. There's nothing else the government can do right now. If he did anything else, he'd be dissatisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too, Minister. In the second question, under number 877/29-6-2020, the second question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Expansion of the financing of the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2014-2020 to newly developed organic farming" will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Konstantinos Srekas. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes strictly for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u73	I believe, Minister, that we agree to support organic farming as a priority for rural areas. A priority, however, which goes through the conversion of 25% of agricultural land into organic crops. This is an objective until 2030, in the context of the well-known strategy "from the field to the dish" to effectively reduce chemicals in food production. However, this conversion period adds great difficulties to our organic farms and this is because biological methods often lead to lower yields, while the food produced during this period cannot achieve the same price. That is why both the European Union and the Member States can in themselves offer various support measures to help farmers begin. That is why we have decided and adopted measure 11 on the organic crops of the Rural Development Programme with two sub-measures, one on 11.1, namely new entrants and 11.2 on organic farming. Submeasure 11.1 is of three years duration and has had three consecutive invitations in January 2017, March and December 2018. Acknowledging, therefore, that the needs of the newly-trained producers in this sub-measure because of the difficulty of continuing organic farming, we have given the possibility, following the successful completion of their three-year commitment to converting the farming system into organic ones, to be able, if they so wish, to join the respective actions of sub-measure 11.2, that is to say, five years of total duration with a possibility for them and an annual extension after the end of the initial period and after an invitation, if there is, of course, the money. Therefore, while the beneficiaries of sub-measure 11.1 for accession in 2017 completed their commitments, they expected the communication from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the call for participation in measure 11.2 for another two years. This has not been announced. At this hour some seventeen thousand newly trained people are concerned that they will be able to continue their productive activity. I close by telling you that yesterday is the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers' notification that they intend specifically in terms of organic farming to re-establish the process in five years' time. So, in fact, from all sides, there is a possibility of implementing the specific result we want with our timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mr President, the importance and criticalness of the conversion of conventional crops into organic crops is undeniable and also an objective of the European Commission, since in the new programming period it has set the objective of increasing farm land in a biological way from 7% currently at European level, 8% at Greece's level, to 25% of the land used. Why is this an objective of the European Commission, but also of Greece, and should it be of the whole world? Because with organic crops we produce products that are safer for the consumer, more environmentally friendly, and of course we have in good condition the natural resources used to produce agri-food products. What are the natural resources? It's the ground, it's the water, it's the air. Indeed, the aim of the European Commission, which will be implemented through the 'From farm to dish' strategy that we are discussing at this time, which is part of the Green Deal European Strategy for the Green Agreement, is to reduce the use of plant protection preparations by 50%, to reduce the excess of fertiliser in the soil by 50% and, of course, to increase, as we have said, the area cultivated in a biological way from the current levels to 25%. In this way, as I have said, we will produce safer and more quality products to the consumer and, on the other hand, we will protect the environment and keep it in a situation so that future generations of farmers, farmers and farmers can operate in the same or better way as they are today. Indeed, Europe enables a large part of its resources to be made available to our country and to other Member States to motivate farmers. Why do incentives need to be given to farmers? Because when you turn a conventional crop into organic, this results in a reduction in production, so a reduction in products produced, and that also results in the producer's income. The producer, therefore, on the same land, has a lower income. That is why we are giving him this financial support and support, so that it can move from conventional farming to organic farming, and of course this must be combined with an education and a change of attitude towards consumers, because they must understand why they must buy a little more accurate, but much more qualitative and much safer agricultural products, which are produced in a biological way. In fact, in the previous period, which you had the luck of being the period of development and planning of the rural development programme, you were allocated EUR 690 million, of which 600 million was European money and the 90 million were overcompensated, was money which you thought could be found or not used perhaps by those who were part of the measure and thus could not be used. In the end, however, it seems that 600 million actually had money for the measure and today that we are talking about an additional 60 million from the overcompensation is being used to meet the needs and the beneficiaries that you have included. While this budget and this allocation you had made it, you had predicted who the beneficiaries would be, you had predicted the time for which they would receive and receive financial assistance, so that you had specifically allocated 690 million euros, 600 million real money, 90 million overcompensation, you are coming now and as if you hadn't contributed at all to the programming of the past five years, you ask for an additional EUR 90 million that would constitute 120 - that is, you need an additional EUR 30 million as legal commitments - to pay another two years about 12 000 beneficiaries that you had all set, but that you had not predicted to allocate and calculate the money needed. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has introduced organic farming measures into a certain number of farmers, it has estimated that those for the time they were going to cultivate in a biological way needing EUR 600 million, put an additional EUR 90 million as a super-commitment to integrate even more beneficiaries into the programme and are now coming, while the previous government has done these, and they say 'find another 90 million plus 30 million legal commitments, that is, 120 million euros, to continue, to extend the period of about thirteen thousand beneficiaries of organic farming'. The question is very simple, Mr Colleagues and former Minister for Rural Development: you who planned this measure, which you knew for the next two years, if it were to be extended, would need additional 120 million legal commitments, because you had not predicted that this money would be in the fund today and could be paid? Where do you want us to reduce money, from what measures do you want to reduce money to pay the people you joined and who you have not provided so that they can be paid for five years, but only paid for three? Do you want us to reduce and get money from the balancing and lose money from there, from the existing beneficiaries, you want from linked, you want from other measures of the Rural Development Programme? Do you want us to reduce money and get money from the improvement plans? Do you want us not to be able to move on to the new measure to support farmers from the consequences of the coronary pandemic? Tell us what money, from what measures of the Rural Development Programme that are currently running, do you want to take money - why are there no more - and include them in the measure of organic crops so that we can give the time extension that you ask for by two years to twelve, thirteen thousand beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u77	Minister, your answer to my question was essentially a question to the questioner. I'm really going to give you an answer. I know the place and I'll help you. But you must bear in mind one thing: as far as the management of Community funds is concerned, in addition to what we have done and what we have done to get rid of fines, charges and the returns that come to the country, we are doing something else, Minister. We have been able to use these resources every time in the Rural Development Programme, depending on how the needs are shaped and, above all, on what the rural area requires. You forgot that we were the ones who brought the associated aid. This is a measure that has really guided Community agricultural resources towards this area. I therefore reply to you as follows: as I have said, in order to manage the resources, we must have a flexibility. And I'm telling you now that I'm bringing you two, three meters. For example, we have the measure concerning the development of forest areas. It's a measure that all years have a problem of absorption. And I will go further than that, saying that it actually works for the purpose they give it. So, then, can we take an intervention over there? Secondly, can you make an intervention on issues relating in particular to improvement plans? You have celebrated the improvement plans, but their efficiency does not seem and in the end we will have a problem of absorption of these amounts, when we now need to direct them to another side. It's not much, it's 98 million euros. So, as I have said, you should even see the issue of balancing, because what is important is that these funds go to specific actions. And since we are talking about organic farming, I would like to tell you that you have not even advanced the measure of systems for monitoring the certification of organic products. So you understand what a need we'll find. I would say that what you have given to the rural area so far is in the context of the uptakes made through the common agricultural policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even 1 euro so far you have not given from the state budget to strengthen the rural area because of the pandemic. Even now, because you have announced the 10 million for bloomers, I doubt if so far the money has been put into their account. So, in addition to the delay, you should definitely see the issue of organic farming, because, as I have said before, it is not possible for the other countries to extend and continuously facilitate organic farming, when we have the prerequisites because of the quality of our products, which, if we combine with biological activity, will be amazing. Make this move, the rural area needs it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please try to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, I shall begin with the last thing the honourable Member has said. Mr Colleague, as you know very well and it has already been announced, 150 million of the state budget have already been allocated by the Prime Minister. This is a first sum to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on the rural area. It is already in a process of repayment of about EUR 15 million for flower producers, EUR 10 million for fishermen, EUR 31 million for farmers and EUR 15 million for producers of popular markets, who have accepted the consequences of the pandemic, because of decisions by the state and government. And of course, very recently, two days ago, on Friday, the Prime Minister's decision to suspend the payment of the trade fee to all farmers for a year has been announced. We are talking about 650 euros that all the main-professional farmers should pay in about two months. They don't have to pay them. This, then, is a reduction in a burden, it is essentially an extra revenue that they will have since this EUR 650 would pay them and now they do not have to pay them. Of course we're going on. I repeat that we also have a new measure. The European Commission gives us the possibility of 2% of the Rural Development Programme, i.e. about 94 million euros, to be able to promote them in order to address the adverse effects which Greek farmers currently suffer because of the coronary pandemic. So you come here unregulatedly and lightly and you tell us to find 90m euros - I say that 120m euros are legal commitments - so that we can extend a measure of organic farming - which we would like, of course - but which you for four and a half years have not provided for you to allocate and predict these resources so that two years of the beneficiaries can actually be extended so that they can stay in the area of organic farming. So what you have not done for five years, you come and tell us now to find EUR 120 million. And we have to figure it out. And I repeat that it is not only that you have not provided for the 120 million legal commitments on organic farming, formerly Minister for Rural Development in the SYRIZA government, but also that you have not provided for EUR 720 million - which is about EUR 240 million a year for the next three years - which we need for the balancing. And we had to come here and find money, and you in one, unfortunately, rough and unrelenting way had distributed and planned the Rural Development Programme, the results of which will be measured at the end of this programming period. You had no allocation, you had not predicted EUR 720 million for the balancing, and now you tell us to find another EUR 120 million for organic farming. You're telling us to take money from the measures relating to earth forests. The reality is that we are considering very serious parts of this money to use in order to create the new measure to deal with the coronary pandemic that we did not know about. We need to find money for this too. So we need to find 120 million, 94 million are European resources for the coronary, and we need to find 720 million euros for the balancing system. We must, in other words, find over 850-900 million, almost EUR 1 billion, which we have inherited from you who did not intend to design a Rural Development Programme that has no holes in its budget. And now he's got holes. And I ask you this: Where do you want to cut? I told you about the forests, about 8.1, 8.2 obviously mean the measures - that we are thinking of allocating them to other urgent needs that the agricultural sector currently has. What do you want to cut? You want to cut off the balancing? Because that's what you said! In Evia, today, there are ten thousand two hundred twenty beneficiaries of compensation receiving 15.9 million a year. Do you want Evia's compensatory beneficiaries not to take the balancing for the next six years, so that we can extend organic farming by two years to those beneficiaries that you hadn't predicted? Where do you want to cut? Do you want us to cut off from the improvement plans that the primary sector needs so much, so that it is modernised and equated and can produce cheaper products and in a more environmentally friendly manner and be competitive and be able to remain in its farmers? Fifteen thousand applications for investment projects we had. Two out of three will be integrated and able to implement their investment projects. And that's where we're looking for money so that we can incorporate them all to make investments. So you cannot come here, as if you had no role and as if you had no chance of intervention, and tell us to find money. Because you were four and a half years in government, five years in government, you were the government that designed this Rural Development Programme for the current programming period, which we have to follow and pay, let me say this in this way. On the other hand, the proposals you are making are, unfortunately, proposals for a opposition party, a opposition party whose Members speak and oppose as if they had not been governed. The reality, Mr Colleague, is that you have ruled four and a half, almost five years. The world already knows what you were doing, and that is why in the last elections it judged you in a tough way. Now let us plan the next programming period, the new common agricultural policy, in a way that will actually bring Greek agriculture and livestock to the next day, the primary sector, which is so important. One last thing about measure 3.1, which also concerns support for bio-growers up to EUR 2 000 per hectare, that is to say, up to EUR 200 per acre. We're going to start this measure. It is very important that those of you who had already completed three years' time and, of course, had not predicted any money, that two more years should be extended, that they should be able to participate in the programme and that they should be able to have an income to pay for some of the costs caused by bio-cultivation, such as the certification of their products. This will allow us to remain two years until we announced, through the new programming period, the new plan for the transition of Greek agriculture to organic agriculture, which will produce high quality and high characteristics agricultural products, which will offer what Greek society and Europe need, and the necessary income to the Greek farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too, Minister. The first question under number 875/29-6-2020 will now be discussed in the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Nea Demetrios Kourides, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The need for better policing in the Municipality of Agia Paraskevi and more generally". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Courides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of my current topical question was the known incidents in St. John's Square in Agia Paraskevi, Athens. With the lifting of the curfew ban as a result of the coronary pandemic and then the intervention of MATs, the dropping of chemicals, the subsequent stone war, a matter of time came to the surface, but gave the occasion for a wider debate on the right policing in Athens and elsewhere. I have the announcement of St. John's club. I've got a lot of messages and letters from the residents. I have been consulted on a number of occasions with the municipal authority there. I think there is a diffuse impression, as I myself have formulated, that some are trying to create a place to meet illegal functions in the north of Athens, such as drug trafficking, which is not in line with the peace and peace we all want. My question is very simple. We need, in my opinion, the mild policing. We don't want tensions. The organized state is the last thing that should be wanted to be done by MAT operations and, in general, by the creation of polarisations. There are a number of minor policing measures that can easily remove problems before we have to get to tougher crackdowns. The municipal authority has tabled concrete proposals, such as the Alcotest, the control of illegal parking, the control of compliance with the rules of common quiet in the area, which will dismantle the problem. I would like your opinion on this issue in St. John's Square in Agia Paraskevi, but also on the wider issue of policing and tell me where we are moving today, especially in the region of Athens. For years we have been talking about the centre of Athens, which has been going down, but there is also the region in the north and the rest of Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u82	I too, Mr Colleague, and for the fact that you have kept your time. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Couridi, I am pleased that I really see your sincere interest in achieving and maintaining an environment of well-being and security, which is, of course, a necessary framework for a normal everyday life in which all citizens of this city are entitled to live and the state is obliged and provided with it. In particular, as far as the inhabitants of Agia Paraskevi are concerned, as is the case for every other area of the Attica basin, the Directorate-General for Police of Attica has prepared a specific operational plan. This project aims to provide better policing of areas every day throughout the 24-hour period, and in particular with regard to Agia Paraskevi. At this point I would like to stress that in this day-to-day and endless effort by the police forces of Attica all the competent and existing departments of the Directorate-General for Police of Attica are involved, with the aim of effectively addressing all the issues of police responsibility and this is the case in Agia Paraskevi. Therefore, the checks by the officials of the Greek Police are continuous and we have tangible results which are reflected in the document that I present today in the Minutes, where the checks and results made in particular in the area of Agia Paraskevi appear in detail. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to make a special reference to the efforts made by the relevant police services both to combat the phenomenon of drugs and to issues relating to alcohol consumption and especially young people. As far as the fight against drugs is concerned, our objective is inextricable and we are developing a number of preventive and repressive actions. Of course, however, it is a wider social issue and it cannot be dealt with more extensively than just a police action of a preventive or repressive nature. However, with regard to this issue and the area of competence of the Greek Police, we have very many and important results for this region. I am tabling a practical document showing, at a certain time, the results of the targeted actions that we are doing in Agia Paraskevi which concern this sector. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One can easily understand the effectiveness of the actions currently being developed. Also, while continuing and completing this first position, I would like to stress that we are also giving special attention to the issues of the use of alcoholic beverages and especially of young people. Controls at health stores and at entertainment centres are thorough and are carried out by steps, including economic police officers, as well as officials from the coordinating market surveillance and treatment centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much for your reply, and I am pleased about these actions, which I will make public after I have been informed, so that we can have the fullest picture possible. I would, however, like to insist on an issue as a Athens Member. Often in this Parliament and in general public debate, Madam President, we are talking about the prerogatives of the centre in relation to the problems of the region. However, on the issue of policing, I think Athens is the great wrongdoer. While bringing together the majority of crime - I am referring to the whole metropolitan Athens, the Athens town complex - has the minority of police forces, which are spatially unequally distributed in favour of the Greek region. Not that there are no problems there, but certainly in Athens they are extremely increased, precisely because of disharmony. Police forces have been shut down in the crisis, police forces have been depraved, weakened by their staffing. The grievances of mayors and citizens throughout my region, including fourteen municipalities in the north, with about six hundred thousand voters and many more inhabitants, are very strong and I would like to know the broader policy of better staffing, given the budgetary constraints, the more balanced distribution on the basis of the assumption that where crime exists, there must also be a police presence in the fight against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have attempted in my initial position to develop briefly, within the limited timescales of the parliamentary control process, a wide range of actions developed by the competent Greek police services in the area of Agia Paraskevi, which aim to improve its policing. Such actions are, of course, also carried out in the Attica basin. There are no doubts, given that we have spent a decade in which, in terms of staff ranking, in the context of the Memorandum of Understandings, you are all aware that it was too small the number that was registered to the Greek Police. But in the last year, with a government decision, a thousand special guards have been hired in Athens, they have all sent the DIA teams to Athens, and within a new, modern anti-crime policy framework that we planned for 2020-2024, implemented throughout the country, but also as far as Attica is concerned, very targeted actions, both for the centre and for the region. Criminal groups, activities, and there is already a very structured design, which is supervised daily, at both political and operational level, by the Ministry and by the headquarters of the Greek Police. Operations are everyday and the picture speaks for itself, looking at another relevant table, which I present to the House today and mentioning to you for example the Holy Friday that in March - May 2020 we had seventy-one thefts and burglaries and in March - May 2019, two hundred fifty-five. In other words, we have a reduction at the moment of about 72%. As far as vehicle theft is concerned, it is a safe indicator with which crime is measured, because, from time to time, there are also various statistical data, but here the data on vehicle thefts are indisputable and indisputable. We had in March - May 2020 twenty-four vehicle thefts and March - May 2019 fifty-six. We also have a 57% reduction here. Such a pace also refers to various other offences. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, every day, the effort made continues with unrelenting intensity and interest to achieve a higher level of safety and to improve the existing well-being environment. We believe that in the next few months we will have even more chance of employing staff in Athens, as we expect the islands to return from a large number of policemen who are seconded there because of the problem we have with irregular immigrants, given that we are currently ranking the border guards, which we hire, eight hundred for the islands and four hundred for Evros. At the moment, the process is being completed and we hope that by September, if all is well, they will undertake an active service and turn the corresponding number of policemen from the islands, who are seconded to Athens and to the rest of Greece, and improve even more the image of the services in terms of staffing. At the same time, I would like to say that we are also developing a comprehensive plan, along with coordinated actions with other co-operating bodies and private bodies. We are in close cooperation with the municipality of Agia Paraskevi, as well as with all the Lefkanos and across the country and with various other organisations, which operate in similar directions, so that together we can shape better social conditions so that we can have a better level of security. So all of us aim to further strengthen the sense of security for the citizens of Agia Paraskevi, the Attica basin and the whole of the country and make sure that we achieve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the last topical question for today, the fourth under number 855/26-6-2020, the first time in the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Immediately the recruitment of personal guards to the penitentiary store in Nigrita". The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is a question that really burns the local society and the whole of Greece, if we talk about a well-being and proper functioning in relation to prisons and prisons. The problem in Nigrita is timeless, it's from 2010. There has never been a proclamation for Nigrita prisons to be served, where every ward since 2010, despite the promises of locality and the criterion to be applied, because local societies - and then as a journalist I remember - have reacted, but they have finally been touched and, to have the traceability criterion, it has not been implemented. At first we got ten penitentiary officers, then ten more, that is to say we were blocking, so that, today, prisons would need about two hundred and fifty-eight people to be assigned and be able to be commanded. They only have a hundred and fifty. As far as the external guard is concerned, there is the big problem. While they have to be ninety-eight people, they are only sixty-four and even - and then I think the current Prime Minister was the Minister for Administrative Reform - the municipal police were moved back, so today there are serious deficiencies because others will be leaving in self-government when it comes to municipal police. I must tell you at the same time, Minister, that the external guard, which Thessaloniki and Athens do not do, is also charged with other obligations. Also, the question arises on the occasion of the prisons in Nikiforos Dramas. They're new press prisons, identical to Serres prisons. There, it seems, at first you were talking about some recruitment through the Staff Selection Board. Finally, it will be done by supervising the AAP. Why other measures and other stations in Drama? Shouldn't a call be made for the Nigrita prisons? Will there be a syndication and notice in Drama to cover the organic positions in all prisons throughout Greece, including in Nigrita, where the problem is greeding and growing? Will there possibly be care for the fifteen experienced penitentiaries today from the Nigrita prisons to be transferred to Drama? Is there any plans in your plans, until the notice comes out, to make compulsory moves from other penitentiary shops, so that there can be a balanced distribution of positions, so that the Nigrita prisons can be established? Are they in your plans? Today we are talking about over seven hundred prisoners, barbecues. You see what happens in prison. To dismantle prisons, including those of the highest security prisons in Domokos, from what is in your plans, we have hundreds of fifty and all, so they have more than a hundred prisoners, who have to get on the floor. Excuse me very much, but with what psychology do people have, and especially the external guard in Nigrita prisons, when staff are not enough and are also charged with transfers? So is it your plans to deal with the situation equally, as is the case in the prisons in Drama? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u90	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The reason for this is the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bubas, I am pleased that, in your timely question, you are giving me the opportunity to inform the House and the public of a particularly important issue, which we have been called upon to address as the Ministry of Civil Protection, the management of all the detention stores in the country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of subscribing the country's detention shops is unfortunately one of the chronic diseases that this government has inherited, which it is called upon to resolve in a way that will ensure the proper functioning of the entire penitentiary system in the country. The strengthening of staff with staff of various specialisations, which will be employed in prisons throughout the country, is a key axis and one of the fundamental priorities which constitute the comprehensive anti-crime policy of the government of the country. As far as the particular case of the Nigrita detention store is concerned, I would like to inform you that we are going through a period of time when the most well-known notice 6K/2018 of the AACC is expected to be completed, which will take place with the adoption of the final lists of appointments. As a result of this development, there is provision for strengthening the guardianship of this penitentiary with thirty more than six additional people. It is worth noting at this point that nineteen employees in the ICM sector have already been recruited for storage at the Nigrita detention store under a fixed-term private-law contract, which are included in the provisional lists for classification of the above-mentioned notice. In addition, Nigrita booking staff, in the context of a recent distribution of various specialists, for example social work, nursing, medical psychology, have been strengthened by a psychologist whose appointment has already been completed. By completing my initial position on your timely question, I would like to inform the National Representation that a request to the AACC has been scheduled for the extradition of three hundred eighty of a permanent staff of various categories and branches, who would assist decisively in the proper functioning of our country's penitentiary, solving many difficulties but also substantially upgraded the work of the penitentiary system, which is admittedly tested hard on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you're talking about these thirty-four people. We're talking about ninety-eight people. That is what the external guard needs, at least where there are many former city policemen returning. I don't know if it's panacea these thirty-four people. It's not because the problem is getting bigger. Do you intend to issue a special notice beyond the 6K/2018 you said about the Nigrita prisons, as was the case in Drama? In Drama, there's a better organizational chart. You're talking about two hundred and fifty eight hirings. It's about the same dynamic. Five wings also exist in the prisons of Nigrita. So the potential is about six hundred prisoners. So the same number is needed in Nigrita prisons. At the moment, instead of two hundred and fifty eight in Nigrita, where prisons were held in 2010, the local society came to say that with prisons growth will come to solve the biopolitic problem, unfortunately, that's where we arrived - it's a hundred and fifty. So we're talking about a hundred people. To bring the thirty-four people you're talking about in the outer guard is something. The point is, however, that it does not heal the wound, because they will continue to leave others who will return to Municipal Police. Therefore, ninety-eight people will not be completed. They will, in part, solve the problem, because it is burdened by the external guard of Nigrita moving to Thessaloniki, which the guards do not do in Thessaloniki and Athens. Possibly he'll relieve them of this. The problem, however, will be perpetuated when it comes to moving the municipal police officers who went to the penitentiary and have to return. And possibly, there are other people with experience. Because in Drama's prisons we may have to overcome this figure, because it also needs experience for the prisons to function, since it will be trialable for a period of time. So, let's not get back to being a silencer for the Nigrita prisons. It will not be enough for the personnel either for the external guard. With a hundred and fifty people, however, over seven hundred prisoners when the prisoners have to be six hundred and are overnumbered - and we also talk about barpinites - you realize that psychology is not the right thing to do. The external guard must be at certain points for hours and keep the penitentiary store. It is not the best conditions when there are shortcomings. What about the licenses? Not to put the equipment parameter in the prisons that should be there. The issue is essentially to resolve the problem, that is to say, to re-apply a call for organic positions and coverage throughout Greece, not only selectively in some prisons, so that there is decongested in your plans - and it is right - so that we do not have this problem either on third-world conditions in prisons reflecting the image of the country, but also in order to allow penitentiary officials and especially the external guard to do their job unreasonably with the necessary equipment and the necessary number of officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bouba, as I pointed out in my initial position, the issue that arises through your timely question is indeed a matter that concerns us every day in the Ministry of Civil Protection. I would like to assure you that we are looking for the most immediate, practical and operational solution for its settlement, taking into account all the possibilities and parameters that are always in line with our plan, with regard to the management of human resources in the coming years towards strengthening staff working in the detention stores in the country as a whole. I understand your intense interest in the shop of Nigrita Serres, both in relation to the operation in Drama and in general. But I really want you to believe that one of our main concerns at this time is the issue of the overall staffing of the detention stores in the country, because it is really the sub-secretory that is marginal. And we cannot discuss a normal penitentiary system unless these basic issues are resolved first. You know that one of the government's main priorities is the creation of modern penitentiary stores. The relevant provisions have been passed with PPP programmes to move forward. We're moving fast for the Ripper. At the same time, we are also considering the possibility of other areas in the country where land or other suitable buildings are offered to move quickly to the creation of other penitentiary stores, modern times, which create the right conditions for the residence of detainees, respecting them and their personality, and harmonising our country and the Council of Europe's suggestions. We move very quickly. First of all, of course, we want them to be carried out because all these years because of the Memorandum of Understanding, in fact, the issue of subscribing has been brought to much tragic results, and, more importantly, the vote shortly before the elections of the relevant provision, which enabled the municipal officials seconded to return to the City Police. This is therefore the result of a long, daily and particularly difficult effort. We are completing a series of measures. We hope that they will soon also be able to take the form of legislative initiatives, so that the penitentiary shops can come to a level that actually carries out their mission, as is appropriate in a modern European and democratic state, and for which they are, in the end, intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda that has been distributed to you, we will have a few minutes to get this Chamber cleaned up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring: a) the 23.6.2020 amendment of the Donation Convention from 6.9.2018, (b) the 23.6.20 Partial Donation Contracts for Projects IX and X and c) the 23.6.20 amendment of the Partial Donation Contract for Project VII - A trauma to the Donation Convention between the Foundation "COMPLES DRIVING S. NIORCHOS" and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure, ratified by the law. Regulation (EEC) No 4564/2018 (A'89) and supplement n. Regulation (EEC) No 4693/2020 (A'116).’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 June 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle, the articles and the amendment. I would like to inform you that from today, July 1st, 2020, the system of Members' registration returns to the list of speakers with their electronic card. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u98	The House has agreed. I would ask that the electronic system be opened for the registration of speakers, which will be open until the end of the speech of the first two rapporteurs, Mrs Bryzidou and Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr. Paraskevi, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 21-9-2019 the contract of donation was ratified by Law 4564/2018, by Law No. 6-9-2019, between the Foundation "Common Benefit Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State. The Foundation undertakes all the costs of implementing important projects, the General Hospital of Komotini, the Hospital of the Thessaloniki Children's Hospital, the financing of the implementation of educational research programmes and grants, the supply of new equipment to enhance the capacity of the ACAP, the General Hospital of Sparta and any other additional project that would be necessary due to new data or exceptional circumstances, such as the ones that have caused the spread of the coronary. Following information from the Greek State on the health deficiencies detected in Greece, in particular in the area of intensive treatment due to coronary disease, the Foundation immediately agreed to help finance the renovation of facilities specifically designed to operate as intensive treatment units. This is a project, IX, a budget of EUR 15.111.500, which includes interventions in fifteen public hospitals, ensuring a hundred and fifty-five beds of intensive care units (ITUs) and nineteen beds of care facilities (PSUs). This sub-contract was implemented on 23-6-2020 and is currently to be ratified by this draft law. At the same time, another project was funded, the X project, concerning training on intensive therapy and includes training seminars for doctors and nurses, as well as the implementation of specialized certified seminars involving intensive doctors in the budget of 1.400,000 euros. The offer of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation over time, as well as the treatment of the crisis of the coronary, as well as of many other Greek entrepreneurs, was decisive and touching. The powerful economic Greeks are next to our country and send the message that they will not leave it weak, vulnerable and with shortcomings. We honour their offer and with proper management and cooperation we make the best use of their support and encourage other imitators. And at this point, by managing the financial crisis so far because of the coronary, I think it has had a very positive effect. This satisfys us not only for the overall recognition, but especially for the protection of the lives of our vulnerable fellow citizens and the health of all Greeks in general. The positive result was the self-sacrificing of doctors and nurses, as well as of workers from other professions who were in the front line and all the Greeks who followed the experts' instructions because they trusted the government's guidance, which, having at its hands the steering wheel of the country and the responsibility it reacted immediately, took the necessary measures decisively and acted solely on the protection and interest of the Greeks. In this draft law we still have to ratify the amendment of the VII project contract - donation wound of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. This project of total budget 6.300,000 euros includes the implementation of training programmes in certified trauma training centres across the territory. In particular, there are training courses to deal with the injury of sixth-year medical students, students in nursing and rescuers of the EMCDDA, as well as funding for scholarships. It is also planned to buy surgical simulators. However, following a new evaluation it was considered necessary to include in the subject matter of this donation and an educational programme related to the child wound of senior medical students in the sixth year. The training will take place in Thessaloniki, Athens and Crete at certified training centres in collaboration with the competent manager 30 days after the ratification of this amendment. Finally, this draft law refers to the individual donation contract for the V project concerning the purchase of the two helicopters of Leonardo. The same company and the necessary spare tools and general equipment and technical assistance for helicopters are added to that contract. And this additional agreement is coming for ratification today. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the great importance of this donation, which increases the quality of health services to Greek citizens and creates a sense of security. I would also like to refer to the Ministry of Health, which has been working hard all this time and, above all, at the time of the health crisis by guiding the government as a whole, has shown that it can fill gaps in the past and be useful and effective. Thoughts, programs also existed from the previous government but, unfortunately, many shortcomings and gaps that have been covered by the current government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition and, above all, of the Officerial Response, the Greek citizen wants and is entitled to be safe in the matter of his or her health and life. That is what the current government is successfully taking care of, and that is why there is satisfaction among the citizens from every corner of Greece. Unfortunately, SYRIZA has always had a difficulty in interpreting the will of the citizens. Perhaps that is why he can see in this bill also suspiciously the necessary, unnecessaryly useful and disagree with what all the Greeks wish only because the New Democracy implements them, political choices and political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all support the important points together so that our country can stand strong towards those who underestimate us and above all those who are following us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u100	Thank you too, my colleague, especially for keeping time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Irene - Helen Agathopoulos now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. The ratification, dear colleagues and colleagues, of the individual contracts with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is always a good opportunity to discuss the different model, the model that the SYRIZA Government had chosen in the previous period for the public sector's cooperation with the private sector. Why will you remember that in a period of particular economic suffocation - you will remember that in 2015 your government had completely emptyd the funds to the SYRIZA government - at a time of hard monitoring that we were also called upon to take over, where every euro of the state budget had to have the authorisation of institutions to be spent and where the ceilings on the individual budgets of the ministries that were imposed on us were far below the European average, in a way that the SYRIZA government had to support public health, public education, the welfare state. In those circumstances, then, we did not hesitate to say yes even to sponsorships of companies, but mainly to sponsorships of public benefit institutions to deal with what we could deal with from the ruins you left in 2015. The committee referred to Mrs Fotou in specific examples of such partnerships as financing the electronic system for the acceptance and adoption, such as the personal care bus for the homeless as well as much more in various ministries and in various areas. Such cooperation without any economic benefit and without any profit for private individuals was the initial agreement with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the health sector. Of course the JRC does not agree and has told us to the committee that we are the same as the New Democracy because we both give space to the private sector. Unfortunately for you, luckily for us, reality disguises this because SYRIZA is the government that took out the country from close Memorandum of Understanding, reduced unemployment, reduced poverty, gave again hope in this country and in this world. So we are not the same as the New Democracy and say the opposite. In addition to this, this partnership with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, as it is finally evolving, is the best proof that there is a huge difference in the design of our own, which I say again the state and the Ministry had absolute control over and there was no sign of speculation from the private sector, and now every modification of our contract holds a surprise that a private person behind it is hiding behind it. In addition, the Government of New Democracy did not hesitate in the midst of a pandemic, i.e. an emergency, to give gifts to private clinical authorities to rent MSF beds at very increased prices from the prices envisaged. So we don't expect anything different from you. That's for granted. We must, however, monitor you and show you these practices from which citizens and the public are particularly damaged. In particular, we have asked questions to the committee, Mr Ministers, to which we have not received any answers. We hope to take today so that we can decide on our position in the bill. Specific question One: Are you creating new ITH and MFF beds with this contract or are you just renovating facilities that exist before the fifteen hospitals described in the contract? The debate that was opened in the middle of a pandemic made the need to create new and clinical and ITH beds, especially in the province, but also in our islands. By the way, why today is the tourist season officially beginning in the country, will we discuss the need to decentralise the ICMs on our islands, which, during the summer months, are responsible for a huge volume of tourists? And you and we want to ensure safe conditions for tourists who come to our country precisely because tourism is the heavy industry in this country. Do you not think that the creation and upgrading of infrastructure on the islands will be a strong measure to ensure safe holiday conditions for tourists Greek and foreign? But apart from the islands, we must also discuss the need for clinical meths to be available in remote urban areas, in border areas and so on. There is a design by the government of SYRIZA and from the previous administrations of hospitals throughout the country, after they had been in the process of building new organisations for hospitals including the establishment of MSTH in many public hospitals. Will you go ahead with the new hospital agencies or will we even open the debate on the distribution of clinics and beds in the region? Personally, Mr. Ministers, I have tabled a question for the establishment of an intensive treatment unit at the Kilkis Hospital according to the organization planned by the previous management of the hospital and did not have time to do so. We have not yet received a reply to this question from the Ministry. All we received was a press release from the local management committee of the New Democracy - listen to why it binds you - which says that by autumn Kilkis Hospital will have an IF. I'll testify for the Minutes. You know what? If you don't know, gather these voices because they expose you. We therefore call for new IDs to be created throughout the whole territory according to their needs and tasks immediately. Also, immediately remove the distribution and announcement of the positions of doctors, nurses and specialists for the ITH that we voted on some time ago. Question 2: Why do you assign the educational programmes for the scientific staff of the ITH and MFF to the "THOURAX Foundation"? Have you found that the Hellenic Society of Intensive Treatment and the competent committee of the ERCH which already have this role institutionalized do not play it effectively? If that is the case, I think you should say that to us too, but otherwise there is no need to entrust the PPE "THOURAX". Does this foundation have experience? It doesn't come from somewhere. Has the Greek Society for Intensive Treatment been asked and replied that it cannot undertake this training? Here, Mr Ministers, we need a very convincing answer. If you want to vote on this convention, a particular point has to be changed. Question three: the establishment of the PPP. What stage are we at? For we are listening and we do not see all this time, even though in various bills you have given him various roles and responsibilities. Of course that's a little premature. We are waiting for the establishment of the PPP, totally well-meaning. Question four: training programme for the wound. You're expanding it to the childhood trauma, and you're doing well. What we told you, however, is that for the implementation of this educational programme the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is giving AEMY and AEMY again assigns the Foundation "Regeneration and Progress" "Stavros Niarchos". You could explain to us the necessity of this process for us to understand it. To close, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to our attitude to the convention, we are waiting for your answers and we will then reply. But we repeat once again that public health is, and will be, topical for a long time even because of the pandemic, but not only, the government and the Ministry of Health must take drastic measures: firstly, permanent recruitment to public hospitals - you have not done one to date - and to primary health care structures. Go ahead with the design you already have ready from the previous government, for ten thousand permanent recruitments that we had budgeted very accurately for the coming years. We will not claim, Minister, their paternity, it is not what we are interested in. What we are interested in is the upgrading of public health services. Just do it. Secondly, proceed to the design of the committee for the design of new intensive beds. Bring the matter to the House to discuss it and move on as soon as possible. Third, create timely complete plan and detailed design to address the second wave of the pandemic, if it will come - we need to be ready for whether to come -, plan for each hospital, not to see again the roughness and bad design throughout Greece, of the first period. And I have examples to report to you. So we are at your disposal to contribute with proposals, but always in the light of the upgrading of public health services and the restoration of their reputation in the eyes of the world, the one you had tarnished with your practices by the governments of the previous years in which you have been involved and who are a little far from your current practices. We do not want the public health system to go through what has been done over a period of memoranda and everything else to upgrade the public health system, we are here to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos, and of course also for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u104	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I would like to say that we are accepting Amendment 383/66, which is intended to enable the general meetings of shareholders or members of any legal person or legal entity by means of a teleconferencing conference, whether for some of the members or for all their members, due to a coronary, to extend the length of time. Mr Tsakiris will be here to support this amendment shortly later. We as a Ministry of Health make it acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u106	Please close the electronic record system. Now the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed that the donation of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" is unprecedented in terms of Greek data. Projects comprising at least EUR 400 million may make a decisive contribution to strengthening the ERC on the basis of a specific and long-term project. This bill adds two new projects to the institution's donation, following its reassessment under the new conditions resulting from the pandemic. In particular, the IX project, which involves funding a hundred and fifty-five beds of intensive care units and nineteen higher care units in 15 specific hospitals in the country. The X project also provides funding for a five-year training programme of intensive treating doctors, nurses, EUR 1.4 million. This programme includes the implementation of seminars and will be implemented under the setting up of the Quality Assurance Agency in Health SA, the so-called IPPY, and will only be done through the Centre for Intensive Treatment and Emergency Medical Thorax Foundation. Project VII is amended for the trauma, a budget of EUR 6.3 million and an educational programme specifically related to child trauma is added, addressing senior medical students. The program will be implemented through "AEMY SA" in the certified trauma training centres in Athens, Thessaloniki and Crete. Finally, the technical specifications and conditions for the purchase, delivery and training of pilots, relating to the purchase of the two helicopters provided for by Law 4693/2020, are specified. Without a doubt, this donation expects to improve the ESS in the areas where it traditionally suffers: in ICU beds, in the training of doctors and nurses, in the EAW operations which mainly serve islands and remote areas. However, despite good intentions, we cannot give a white check to manage it as certain points give thought to it. It is true that the need to increase the IF beds did not arise because of the coronary. On the other hand, it is a time-consuming problem that the Change Movement has repeatedly brought to Parliament through parliamentary control since September 2019, in view of the upcoming flu wave at the time. We remind you that, according to Europe's average, we have about a thousand active IF beds to meet the needs of the country's population. We had seven hundred fifty before, and one of them fifty was closed. So, the pandemic did not need to deal with this burning issue. You have had all your time to plan, staff and prevent developments. But until March when the pandemic broke out, you had never carried out any serious planning for the full development of all ready-made IF beds nor of course for their growth. Even now, when we are supposed to be alert because of the pandemic, we do not know whether these fifty closed beds also work with what personal, permanent or subsidiary. At the same time, we do not know how the 50-five to be created through donation will be served. No references to the bill are made to their staffing. It is not mentioned anywhere in the explanatory statement how many positions of doctors and nurses are estimated to be added to their proper functioning, as beds without the necessary staff are a gift free of charge. Here I would point out that these hundred and fifty five IF beds include the reconstruction and transport of existing IF beds. So, for just how many new IT beds are we talking about? Also, hospitals that will benefit from this donation are the hospitals of the urban centers, Athens, Thessaloniki and Crete, who will receive the lion's share. Who decided on this distribution? What evidence did you take into account? Because at the same time, the Peloponnese Region has only ten to eleven IF beds. It appears that the regions of the country will remain the ‘poor relative’ of public health, with the most neglected building infrastructure, the oldest machinery and most gaps in ICU beds and staff. The development of more ICU beds in regional hospitals and the creation in them of suitable conditions for the hospitalisation of CIVID cases -19 does not need to be deferred as, as is well known, the coronary has increased in specific regions of our country, but also in its extreme areas. In addition, the way you deal with the training of ICU and TCU staff shows the least lack of design and more perceptiveness. Because it is highly doubtful whether it is possible to talk about effective education in this sensitive area, based only on seminars and not on a recognised scientific body, but on an unknown source and reliable research centre. For the performance, quality and content of these seminars, which will cost 1.4 million euros, we know nothing at all. Who's gonna be the instructors? What exactly is the cost of training? Where's she going to be? In short, everything's in the air. You know very well that this training could be undertaken by the medical epidemiology company with the involvement of universities. Why didn't you choose this way of training? At the same time as you are calling to manage a donation of many millions of euros that can transform public health into a future, you show a tragic inability to manage and provide solutions to more pedestrian and practical problems in the present. In particular, the design and management of the pandemic sanitary is highly communication and minimally essential. While the islands open up to tourism, in order to reduce the damage of pandemic to the national economy, their armour is poor to health workers and do not have an organised epidemiological surveillance mechanism. The staff gaps are covered mainly by distractions from health centers and other hospitals, while five hundred KMYs that could control tourists in the islands and airports are absent. They may be invisible because citizens do not see them acting either in the region or in the urban centres. At the same time and in a panic situation, you ask just before the country's opening to tourism for the assistance of the Armed Forces. While their maximum readiness is required due to the daily challenges of the neighbors, you choose to weaken military hospitals by placing permanent steps of military doctors and nurses on the islands for three months with the responsibility of the coronary controls. So you put their health at risk, and on the contrary you must protect them. And let's not pretend you have no choice. On the one hand, the JRC's ability to recruit temporary staff by means of summary procedures was not exploited in this case. At the same time, you are unable to solve other kinds of problems, such as the function of the Children’s Paedo - Surgery Clinic. When will it work? With what personal? Why did he shut down, leading to despair for parents and children? These are matters on which you must give us clear and concrete answers. It should be recognised that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation was made ready. From you we expect you to develop your plan for disseminating its benefits to hospitals throughout the country, ensuring universal and equal access for all citizens to upgraded quality free health services. But for almost a year, instead of that, you've been conducting micro-dispositions, "parallel" arrangements in positions of responsibility and patches. What is your real design for public health, for improving the system, for organising primary health care, for chronic patients, for digitisation, for the technological upgrading of hospitals? On these issues we have not heard and have not seen anything specific. I fear that political health planning is condensed in the recent statements by the Honourable Minister of State, Mr Gerapetiti, who said: "The HSH, as we had known, devastated and declining, has not had a future and position of the government, so that it can function harmoniously with the private sector." If that's your plan, why don't you announce it? Why, in your inertia, are you further downgrading the according to the Minister of Deportation? Instead of a direct presentation to the citizens of your political planning, you are hiding behind elaborate words, communication shows and applause for the show. These prescribe the doctors and nurses of the ESS who lifted the weight of the pandemic and raise the weight of public health every day instead of joining the heavy and unhealthy and permanent wage upgrades. Also, I remind you of reports that the lists of public hospitals for ICU servants during the critical period of the pandemic for granting financial support from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation were not compiled in the most transparent and correct way. According to protests, people on the front line of battle against the coroner stayed out. And TLP health workers and those injured who first came into contact with cases were left out of donation, even though we pointed out that it was right that they too should receive financial aid to a minimum extent in return for their offer. At the same time, introduce private individuals to public health at every opportunity and it seems that in the next few years you should create the PPPY to implement the educational donation piece and based on this anonymous company, to carry out an assessment of the existing health establishments. Since 2004 you have created "AEMY S.A.", which had been involved in the use of the Olympic Village Polyclimate and then SYRIZA in the same logic, used it for the Hospital of Santorini. So your only tangible and concrete planning is slowly unfolding: the gradual privatisation of public health with what this implies for the middle-class, pensioners, farmers and all the hard taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has repeatedly called for the Committee on Social Affairs to be convened to inform Members of the management of donations. Because more 90 million have been added to the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which may already have increased even further, because, as they have proved in practice, the Greeks support the ESS. We do not know to date how they have been exploited and we would like to know in detail how they have been allocated per OSH and per hospital. The Greek people and we as a Movement of Change demand transparency and information. The donation of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" could be the beginning of a long drive to revive public health in the country and the road map for new donations. In any case, Greek citizens have done and continue to make great sacrifices for their homeland. The least we can do as a political system is the health that they deserve. The Change Movement is here to contribute to this national objective, hoping that the results of the Foundation's donation will quickly become an estate of all. In the hope that you will take our comments on the draft law seriously, we are voting in favour of the bill with the expectation that this money will be used in the most transparent and effective way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, Mr Poula, for keeping time. Mr. Yiannis Delis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, to say that health is a basic popular right and that is why it is a primary state responsibility. These result from the social pan-human nature of the good of health and, of course, from the fact that the workers and other people's layers are the real, the only producers of the wealth of society. In view of the above, public health services, their development, their use by the people cannot be based on nor can they depend on charity or volunteering or any individual supply. On the other hand, the State must ensure all health structures and services and only in subsidiary and in addition make use of any tenders. Such an offer from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation we are discussing today. In fact, we are discussing the amendments to the original Convention of 2018. As a JRC we have repeatedly been placed for such contracts and donations of business groups in the field of health and not only. First of all, the most fundamental of all, this money available to business groups as a donation, is in fact a very small part of their profits resulting from the wild exploitation of workers, namely from the unpaid time of their work, an unpaid work time which, of course, creates profits. We also believe that such conventions do not launder the responsibilities of all governments for the long-term misery of public health, even such conventions show their responsibilities even more. And perhaps that is why, because these responsibilities and intergovernmental responsibilities are also time-consuming, there is also a particular contest for the paternity of the Convention, especially between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. The only difference - on the political point - is that the original contract was actually carried out by the SYRIZA Government and its amendment is now managed by the Government of New Democracy. And among them, New Democracy and SYRIZA may be opposed to secondary, trifle, creating a trifle in the cup of coffee, but the primary ones, such as the health strategy, such as the merchandising of the good of health, or such contracts as exist, coincide to support and acquittal to the people's exploiters. So in these issues, in the primates, they are revealed as a “holy family” and in each family, even in the most holy ones, no one is the same as the other. But they serve the same case. The sure thing is that both are defending these conventions, precisely because they want to hide their own responsibilities for the tragic effects of their health policy and the effects of their anti-grassroots policies on health, in fact they are neither treated nor treated effectively by such donations, which in fact are in addition to and strengthening in the basic strategic direction of health trade. These responsibilities, therefore, have a basic cause and are well-known, are the timeless underfunding of public health, an absolutely conscious choice of governments, in order to make this sub-financing work as a lever for the expansion of commercialised health. In an area where every man and his family will give what they have and do not have in order to heal, this need is exploited by government policy, which over time sees health as a commodity and not as a social asset. Because if it were or was treated as a social asset, it would also be free of charge and would be provided equally to all people. It is therefore underfunding which leads to and pushes public health into commercialisation and incompatibility and sends people to pay for public health services, even in public hospitals. Usually, the argument we hear from these governments, from all governments, is that our state has no money. There's no money for health, it can't be poor, it's poor! It's just that he's been through a very big crisis recently. The question, of course, comes in here is when was that state having money for health anyway? When did he have money for education? When did he have money for welfare? It has never had the same excuse, it is poor of the state. It is only poor when it comes to the people and their basic needs. Because otherwise it turns out to be very rich and galantomus when it comes to capitalists. So he's giving it most of his money, not for health, not for welfare, not for education. Most of the money - and we're talking about billions now - is giving up on subsidies, incentives, tax exemptions, with a whole bundle of benefits in big capital. And here, of course, the Greek logistics fund also has a privileged treatment, as it has succeeded in guaranteeing its prerogatives the tax resources of the Constitution itself. In an article of the Constitution, the tax immunity of Greek capital is guaranteed and we are saying this recently because it was the Revision of the Constitution a few months ago - the proposal of the JRC to abolish all these scandals, as we talk about scandals, tax exemptions of Greek armaments and New Democracy and SYRIZA and the other parties did not talk about it. I would also remind you - to stop this caramel - that the state has no money - that it is this state which, even within this difficult period, found to give enough money and thought to the canalarchs, to the motorway companies, because they had cars that didn't travel, of course, because of the pandemic, to the grandchildren, so that we don't remember the old gifts of SYRIZA to the big pharmaceutical companies when they gave them millions of their obligation to return to the state the sums from the clawback or the unforgettable voluntary taxation of Greek shipowners. This is about the state that, for my part, has no money, but at the same time it can leave the bankers tax free, with the well-known indulgence of the deferred tax - so they called it, 'bought' tax - to cover their mess, says bankers from the 2012 PSI. This certainly did not apply to pensioners and their funds. It can be that state, poor anyway, every year to give more than 4 billion to NATO spending. To come to this agreement now, in particular the convention. I think the well-known 'take the chicken and give us the egg' applies here, because this is actually the case by the Greek business groups, who appear as donors and benefactors. From the profits they make, the unsatisfactory profits they make from the exploitation, from the squeeze of Greek workers, a very small piece return it back and appear as donors, as national benefactors, with all these highly advertised donations from their special, that is to say the channels themselves. Here, because we are going to find it more and more in front of us, that there is no Greek history of a large business group, which has not established a well-founded foundation in order to make donations and sponsorships, in fact, in order to intervene diversely in culture, education, health and wherever other areas are opened for their participation. But behind these donations, there is also a very clear ideological aiming that they serve, advocate, defend and promote both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. First, it is attempting to cultivate in the workers' consciences that this system of capitalist, with all unemployment, poverty, misery in which it condemns more and more people, all right, may have some moments and a person through such donations. The objective of acquittal and rinsing this barbarity system is obvious. Second ideological aim is to reconcile, to get used to the idea - and this is very critical for the workers - that the better a business is doing, the better there may be a chance that there may be a surplus of something, no crumbs for them too, through a donation or sponsorship and, of course, addiction - and perhaps this is the extremely dangerous one - that the workers in that their right to health, in the system we live in, in the country we live, with the governments that we have, is only a right on paper, because it is not actually recognised as a right. But it could be the subject of charity. There is another side, that many times in this kind of donations - because this is not a small insignificant donation to get past it so - in areas such as public health in practice there are other objectives, such as facilitating the penetration of business groups in these areas in which donations are made objectively and, as it is apparent from this convention, each such institution receives either indirectly or directly, the right to control and intervene in those areas where the corresponding donation is directed. This is precisely the case with the content of the current amendment to the Convention. The donation is used, among other things, to infiltrate the private sector, the business sector, which should normally belong exclusively to the State, namely the training of doctors and nurses for the transitional phase, the bill at the Thorax Foundation, whose contents of its objectives are similar to those of a small ministry: the construction, equipment and operation of research and clinical laboratories, research programmes, aid for postgraduate grants, financing of research projects, and its funding is based on the sponsorships of various business groups. But there is this question here. Why should this donation from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation not be directed, through the state, towards strengthening public universities which are also responsible for the training of doctors and nurses in intensive care facilities, but through this convention, to distract, leave public universities and to strengthen the so-called private initiative in health education? Why, in the context of their university status, can they not provide this work and will they be able to provide it only through this institution? Did you ask the university schools or the active doctors of the ICU, and did they tell you that they are unable to carry out this work? If that is the case, that is, if scientists with huge accumulated experience and knowledge have told you that they cannot respond, then things are very serious. If that is not the case - and certainly it is not and could not be so - then it is a mere assessment of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and of the Government, but it is shaped and based on the devaluation of the ability of university and active doctors in the ICUs to carry out this work. It is clear that here the need to train health is the door to infiltrate individuals in this area too, because once they have financed this training, they will also have a say and a role for the content and the direction of this training. With similar logic, the educational program for the child wound is treated as a central role in "AEMY S.A.", a public limited company, i.e., which also operates in Santorini Hospital as an exclusive commercial company self-financed, pilot for other hospitals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will end in less than a minute, Mr President. The bug is in forecasts for the period after the so-called initial pilot phase of the programme. On this, therefore, the pilot project predicts that “AEMY SA” will be solely responsible for finding resources, personnel, equipment, scholarships to continue the project. Evidently all of this is a public limited company, in terms of its nature, i.e. in terms of entrepreneurship. And here the state and its institutions, for example the universities, are being released from responsibility, I would also say from the obligation to finance, personnel, technical means for the implementation of this training project. At the same time, these amendments to the original contract may be individual, but they have an exceptional special weight and signify a characteristicly negative development, especially if we look at it in the perspective of this development, as they serve more general strategic objectives than others, as we have said, than the even greater involvement of the private sector in the area of public health. We are, of course, voting 'no' on the principle and on the articles, in addition to Article 2, in which we vote 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mrs Maria Athanasiou, a special buyer of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament is discussing the proposal for a law on the ratification of further amendments to the conventions between the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State on the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure. Indeed, the reverend of the earth Hellenism has always contributed with donations. Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias donated all his property to the new Greek state. A series of benefactors rushed to help where the Greek state was unable to respond. Thus, for example, the capital was decorated by grand buildings, but also the small remote village acquired its stone school, which proved invaluable over time. Of course some of the benefactors commented negatively, namely that they donated little to take many in exchange or that they were doing favors seeking atonement for their previous pity. In case we are discussing today, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation continues to donate to the Greek public works, equipment and services relating to the health sector. It also makes provision for the establishment of IFs and MFs at the request of the Greek Government for these needs to the institution. And I'm asking this question. In defence of the country, ladies and gentlemen, do we not have any need? Why are you not addressing the foundation, but also the owners and industrialists, for their direct and universal assistance in the supply of war material in the context not only of armoring the country's defence, but also of strengthening structures that can in themselves prevent the appetites of every Antinou? For over ten years the war industry in our country has been devalued, and we have been behind the necessary equipment and the maintenance of weapons worthlessness, while our broken neighbours have taken forth and build even airships, wage wars on three fronts and train their personnel at the same time for real war with powerful opponents. At the same time, we behave as powerless and humiliate our soldiers with hunger wages and antiquated material. At the same time as the national mind is persecuted, after being humiliated and persecuted by every Greek and Greek woman who wants to keep the Greek flag and talk about their homeland, the Turks are talking about the blue country and the country of their hearts. And we in the Greek people only agree to talk about Greece of the poachers and about the demographic situation that will solve us. And proof is that you're going through their Greekization. Turkey has extended its territorial waters to twelve miles in the Black Sea, but also to the islands it has there, and all the Mediterranean coastal countries too, when we under the war threat regime, and quite fearfully not only, we dare not go to twelve miles, but we talk about reduced influences on the islands, that is to say, reduced AEZ, speaking with Egypt, which it also asked for and took full influence from Saudi Arabia on the islands that it has in the red sea. And ultimately what do we do leaving the so-called safe passage of foreign ships not in the twelve miles provided but in the six miles that are now? And as if these were not enough, which is not of this bill, with your policies, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have dispersed all over Greece with nucleus of illegal immigrants who - god forbid - if our Army comes to look at the border, the media will turn against the Greek people and the infrastructures of the state. But let us talk about today's draft law. We wonder why a pilot project lasts for five years. Isn't that a little too much? And this famous PPP when will it be carried out and with what staffing and operation procedures? We're talking about donation. According to Greek law, there is a donor when one, the donor, transfers to another, the donor, his asset without consideration. Suspect and only consideration makes the relationship something else, not donation. Then let us see an article on this particular convention to see whether it is really a donation or even a donation in a way or perhaps other interpretations, since by means of the provisions we are called upon to vote, the Greek State undertakes many commitments and obligations. Article 1, preamble: In the preamble to the Convention and paragraph - (c) it is stated that the Greek State has contacted the institution with the shortcomings identified in the field of health. We would like to know where the Greek state's obligation to inform third parties about health deficiencies arises. Who else did he inform? Did he ask for donations from others? There is talk of the level of donation, which is estimated literally at around EUR 400 million for all the individual projects. We also learn that the implementation of the projects is undertaken by the institution. Therefore, the Greek State cannot control the amount of the donation, but it signs the contract and repeats in the law that this donation will be estimated at EUR 400 million. Here the bill is evading from the limits of seriousness, since the government accepts for some unknown reason to us as true to what is stated by the institution. Article 3: Here is another 'valuation'. The institution will be able to pay the donations directly to donors. Who are the donors, if not the Greek state? What's it called in advance without a donor signing a donation contract? How does one have to be a donor in advance? Can he also be a third private donor? Of course, he can also be a third person, as the same article tells us, for example, who will take over the educational programmes. Who would be the one to take on without a competition, without the approval of the public, educational programs for doctors with only the institution's assignment? A bad faith could assume that the foundation itself with one of its own bodies will be assigned by the institution itself the task of training, so that the sums that came out as a donation to return as a new donation to the institution. Gentlemen, who will train our doctors? Attributes, in Annex 10 on Intensive Treatment Training, are the Thorax Foundation which undertakes training seminars for doctors and nurses. How was Thorax chosen, a private body, and why have the existing public and specialist structures not been exploited? This is not only the case, but Article 2(2) states that no programmes of equivalent content will be carried out by other public bodies during the pilot phase. Why? Where is this five-year exclusiveity aimed at with Thorax? Why is it allowed to marginalise qualified scientific public bodies? Because you consider private intervention to be salvages and you are constantly looking for it. In spite of what the coronary period has shown, you remain committed to your design involving private individuals in each public body. Furthermore, in Article 4 on a coverage timetable, you explicitly agree that the start of the pilot phase is defined as the date of signature of a Memorandum of Understanding between the PPP and the "Thorax" set up by the PPP, which has been mentioned for months, of the PPP which is currently required to be set up in accordance with Article 1, and which should have been established yesterday. Literally. By the end of June 2020. What should be concluded? On the one hand, we are talking about urgent needs and the upgrading of public health, and on the other we have already been measuring delays. Already in the autumn, you have been talking about necessary improvements in the ESS. Nothing happened, nothing on your own initiative, and then the coronary came. His evolution in our country has shown to the full the excellent level of hospitals, doctors of the ESS and our nurses. Worldwide dozens of doctors lost their lives in duty. Your practical recognition of the work of doctors has been limited to paying the extraordinary amount of a thousand euros, applause and concerts for their inspiration, instead of immediately restoring their wages and dignity, so that younger people are not forced to leave the country and that those who have left may have reason to return. Subsequently, with regard to the amendment of Project VII on the training of personnel for the wound, education programmes are integrated for the child wound in particular, to senior students of the sixth year and to students undergraduate. Significant development, since children need special treatment, how much more so that during the countryside service university knowledge should not be applied randomly in the case of practical education, although, as I have already suggested, the countryside service should be done by qualified doctors and not by seniors. With regard to Preamble 9 on IF and MF beds, of course, we welcome the first increase in intensive care units and care units. No one disputes the need for them to be acquired, of course it is enough for them to be recruited permanently and stablely and to function. How the recruitment will take place, of course, is another matter. Is the institution going to look for its donation back because the institutions will ban recruitment? I hope that as a doctor the fate of beds is not equivalent to cases of medical equipment that were left unusable in the underground hospitals for ten years and when they were decided to use them, they needed upgrades. Have the hospitals been asked if they have spaces to evacuate in order to welcome the new beds? Do you really realize that hospitals only undertake obligations if they have to take part in individual contracts? Further, you have hospitals to undertake obligations that are actually out of hand. You demand that hospitals issue building permits, licenses from Archaeology, that is to say spend their already grim resources on engineering fees. In Article 8, the responsibility of the hospital is blackmailed, which will not comply with the recommendations of this Convention, that is to say, it will be punished and possibly also financially penalised for something it has no responsibility for. Ladies and gentlemen, the same wavelength and in the same spirit are our remarks on all the individual projects provided for in the annexes to the Convention which we are debating today. The image of the bill being passed is quite different from that of the usual donation. The donor is presented not only with magnificence. On the contrary, it calls for clauses, imposing obligations. He obviously doesn't trust. The donor is rushing to accept all the terms. The terminology and the style of the text? Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Unfortunately, the text of the contract creates a number of questions, for example part of which we have set out above. The provisions of the draft law in question open doors to opacity. But we repeat that it is no longer welcome for donations. Only the naives or the misappropriated would disagree with gifts of precious value for the health of the Greek people. We therefore draw attention to the strict and modern monitoring of the implementation of projects and of their budgets, so as to avoid unnecessary and unjustified increase in costs, let alone the cancellation of donations. We draw attention to the correct content of the contracts, since they have been agreed, and to the healthy future of each donation. The Greek Solution votes for "the present". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u112	The special speaker of Mera25, Maria Apatzidis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill represents the release of Amendments to Donation Contracts between the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" and the Greek State, in order to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure and their related staff training. We welcome every donation, especially when it meets urgent and real needs, and therefore we vote'residents' instead of 'no'. But the memorial reality of a country that, in conflict with its Constitution, cannot take care of the health of its citizens and is dependent on the charity of individuals. We therefore vote 'the present' instead of 'no'. It is reasonable, of course, that due to the exceptional and exceptional circumstances caused by the spread of the COVID virus -19 there were shortcomings in the area of health in Greece, particularly in the area of intensive treatment. Of course, there is a need to strengthen the health sector by financing work on construction, repair, reconstruction and renovation of facilities, facilities specifically designed and suitable for the operation of intensive care units, ICUs and increased care units beds in selected public hospitals in the country. And, of course, there is a need for training programs on the subject of intensive treatment, which will be addressed to medical and nursing staff of the ICM and MIDs. On the other hand, it is extremely negative that the government resorts to the logic of outsourcing, i.e. outsourcing, in an area such as health, which is a constitutional obligation of the State. Outsourcing is a dangerous logic that we should not get used to. The actions undertaken by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation are primarily provided for in Law 4564/2018. This shows a number of relationships between the governments which signed memorandums. However, this neoliberal logic is fully inspiring with the present Government and is intensified by the crisis of the coronary pandemic, as the basic principle of the government is the neoliberal logic of support in the private sector and the partnership of public and private individuals, even in the health sector, which concerns inappropriate goods. We need to recall here Article 21 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the State ensures the health of its citizens, takes specific measures to protect the youth, the old age, the disability and the care of the most deprived. This principle is to be forgotten by the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding policies which have led to a lowering of the state and, of course, with the present Government, which aspires to impose neoliberal policies as a new normality. This means that the health of citizens is no longer a public asset, which takes care of it itself, but it is a matter of the kindness of individuals, of private charity. As a PARTA25, we believe that the need for private sector donations is by no means normality. That is why we cannot vote 'yes', although we recognise that the needs of the present update of contracts, with specific amendments, are real. For example, we recognize that work needs construction, repair, reconstruction and renovation of facilities, to operate intensive care units beds, ICUs, and increased care units beds, MAFs, in selected hospitals in the country. We recognize that there is a need for relevant training programs on the subject of intensive treatment for medical and nursing staff of the ICM and MIDs. The recent coronary epidemic has created exceptional and additional needs, and we believe that these must be the government's first priority, instead of communications toys, propaganda, police repression, which unfortunately is its priority. However, the fact that the Greek state has come into a situation that requires the private sector for all of this is also something that is not self-evident. It is nothing neutral or inevitable, it is not a natural disaster, it is the result of certain policies both before the crisis and caused it and of the Memorandum policies, which were the wrong antidotes to the crisis and which made it worse. Today, in the context of the own enhanced surveillance policies, which will last for many decades longer, the public gives private individuals its most basic responsibilities, such as health. That's something we can't be happy about. We cannot accept it as Mera25. We cannot vote in favour. With regard to finding resources, Mera25 has made specific proposals for exiting the debt-pool and the memorandum policies to which it relates. We are proposing in particular for the health sector a special 2% tax on the turnover of private hospitals and clinics. We consider this to be a measure which is in the right and fair direction, in complete contrast to the logic of the present government. We also propose new taxes on sugar and processed meat products and dairy products. The resources from these taxes can be directed to the many health areas. And, of course, the most important thing is to ensure that expenditure on medicines, examinations and interventions function properly in order to avoid abuse with very negative results. Of course, we consider the increase in intensive care facilities urgently and the reopening of those who have stopped from a lack of doctors, nurses and machinery. However, we also need to recall in this case that Mera25 proposes an overall strategy for exiting the Memorandum policies, which is the failure of the State to fulfil its constitutional obligations. This overall strategy includes, among other things, the restructuring of the public debt, possible primary surpluses, a public company restructuring private debt and the conversion of the HSE into a development bank. We have prepared a proposal for a law to deal with the crisis. Deep down, only if we dare a radical new start, we will be able to have a state that can fulfil its constitutional obligations and do not have any insufficiency phenomena, as we see in this bill. We are voting 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u114	Before giving the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, I will give the floor for two minutes to the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Tsakiris, for an amendment. Mr Secretary, you have the floor for the amendment for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment has been tabled which provides for the extension of the possibility of legal persons and legal entities to hold the general meetings by teleconferencing by 31 October 2020, as a result of the coronary pandemic. This amendment has been introduced by the 33rd article of the Legislative Act 20-320 and we expect it to have a positive effect on the operation of businesses both for reasons of public health protection, but also on the fact that this period in terms of general meetings of companies is a critical period, so any delay by natural presence could cause a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting with my speech today, to refer to something extraordinary that Plato had said so many centuries ago. The true lord does not look at his own interests - or his friends, I will say - but his own nationals. And I start like this, because the New Democracy and the "Nearch" has, my child, a relationship of worship. The story started with SYRIZA. If you see the crime done by SYRIZA with the 50m euros he gave, to make the coastal front there, to make the "Norarch" all the situation in front of the beach, you will understand what I mean. EUR 50 million raised the road high, many measures. The people appealed to the Council of State, of course, but, as you know, the Council of State, often more often than ever, its decisions are more on paper, that is, whatever paper you take, rather than on substance, that is to say, they have not entered the area at all. And I'm not talking about the microclimate of the area that's changed. I don't know how many of you are from the Faliro or the surrounding area, but by lifting the road to 30 meters, you close the air to the city. We will deal with these in the next few years. However, I never understood why there is so much lusciousness for the Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u118	You don't know them well because I'm a resident.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u119	I might be wrong. However, SYRIZA didn't do well, because, if he had done well, we wouldn't have made it this way. And you didn't do the essentials, I'd say. And I will now tell you what the essentials are. Let's go to New Democracy. Amended conventions. How many months have we been here? Four, five months? Three times you changed the contract. You're changing amounts, you're changing content, without ever explaining exactly why. Now you're saying it needs an improvement because of a coronary. Either you legislate wrong, Minister, and every time you improve a bill or a contract, or you do a job in the leg, or you mock us. Not to say you're incapable. I don't get there because I want to be at least modest in my characterizations. Soon we won't have a health system, but we'll have a Nearchor's health system. Where there's a health issue, Niarchus from behind! I don't get it. Of course, the late Niarchus or the Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation have nothing to do with the Foundation. The Foundation is a good business, well organized and has a non-governmental organization. You know, he has the 'PRAKSIS' dealing with LGBTQ and refugees. The "Stavros S. Niarchos" Foundation is a service, you are serving. And why doesn't it give five or 10 million euros to take the torpedoes we want, Minister? Why? If Niarchus wants to help from Liechtenstein or from Bermuda, where his companies are based, let us also give EUR 10 or 20 million to get some torpedoes, something from our defenses. Why? You tell me, why don't you, when we're going through a very critical phase? And I say this because I remember that the Prime Minister had announced a fund where we could all contribute. Frozen the thing. I have said once again that, whenever there is a crisis, the Prime Minister must take initiatives and make a fund, not only for the parties, but also for all the Greek citizens, so that he can get out and put his bullet in Psoroccostanna, as Greece today - as the New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK did - to get weapons systems. If I'm not mistaken, there's a Navy fund, a fund they put money in. But you'll have to make it seriously, because they need money for the equipment, and Greece needs money. And I say it to understand: 'artwork is working'. There's an art, this one. Make the cashier. We're going to another bill that you'll bring in the next few days and it's about the protests. We said that the New Democracy should copy. You replicate them distortedly and wrongly. We were the first to legislate seriously to allow protests and demonstrations - under the law and under the Constitution - to be allowed - but any tests to be serious. You're copying wrong! Within the bill, "DENMARKING", this strange thing can be said. You speak of an spontaneous or extraordinary public meeting and that there is no need for notification as to whether to make my meeting. We decide ten today and have an spontaneous meeting. I repeat that the legislator does not provide that this meeting is legal or illegal, so that it is all spontaneous. I mean, I want you to understand that you have a uterophobia. Fear not to go out on the streets and cause you trouble. What right does someone close the street with? Tell me what his right is. So when you say that spontaneous or extraordinary public meeting is not forbidden, you leave windows to what you are going to make. Of course, I'll tell you differently. We have asked for strict penalties. You're saying two years in prison, a flood again. When I burn each other's shop, will it be a flood? When I take molotov and burn the property and man, will it be a flood, two years in prison? We call it a felony, so there's a deterrence. To prevent the legislator from operating, he must know that the sword will fall, the ax of justice. But with one care, the ones who make the protests will be responsible for their care. So why didn't the JRC ever have any episodes? Because he's always had care. I remember that you were here, Minister, when there were those big incidents that went into the House, these helmet-slide hoods. If I remember correctly, it was 2009 or 2010. I was a congressman at the time. The JRC has kept Parliament. In honor of them! But it is tragic now that every anarchist laundry takes molotov and burns and is punished for two years. Now listen to what you say about the organizer. Only the organizer will pay the damages? I'm organizing an event and your para-states are coming in because we know how they get into the protests and screw up. I'll be summoned then, the only organizer, to pay for any incident. Why? The para-states? Will those who talk to the police with the helmets and the bats to make their para-state incidents or the anarchists, the fake anarchists, the para-states who go into the incidents? You know, now I will tell you what I said about the Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation. You are creating a legislative ambiguity. And the Admiral's. And I'm telling you this sincerely, because you're constantly correcting it. You did it, you corrected it, you corrected it again. So you have legislative ambiguity. It's like the "creative accounting" story of Simitis. And that was vague. Numbers on paper. Either you do it right and you will forbid any bum from burning people's stores, breaking heads and carrying molotovs without windows or not. It's over and over! There are no middle-substances. And why did the New Democracy Members in the European Parliament not follow, Mr Minister, after you brought your legislation here, the encouragement of MEPs, Mr Frangus, and thirty more two Members, to include the 'ANTIFA' in terrorist organisations? Why has the New Democracy not signed and signed only thirty two Members? Why didn't you do that? Why? The 'ANTIFA', a terrorist organization!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u120	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u121	It is a resolution, Mr Lebanese, in the European Parliament. It is a resolution to characterise as terrorist organisations the "ANTIFA"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u122	What does this have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u123	You know, the Chiefs talk outside of the bill. I don't know if you found out!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u124	Don't interrupt, Mr. Levane. Mr President, this will also be said in the relevant bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u125	I don't know if they taught you this because I imagine that when Mr. Mitsotakis comes here, he doesn't talk about his bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u126	You're telling the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u127	I'm telling you, Mr. Levane, I'm not the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u128	It's a man's fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u129	You're Minister, you're ruler of yourself, I imagine, Minister. But you are also a government minister. So you represent the government unless he only represents himself in here, or if you're just a representative of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u130	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u131	You're a little confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u132	I don't!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u133	I think you're messing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u134	These will also be said in the bill. Go on, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u135	We'll have to catch up with the mistakes. For the 26K of illegal immigrants, Mr President, we have yelled, called for a week and withdrawn it. Because we came here to do business and not to work the world! And we're here all ten! We are not three, four from New Democracy, and not a single two from SYRIZA. Ten MPs coordinate here, because we are paid by the Greek people and will be here every time, summer, winter and holidays! That's our qualitative difference. And we came to act constructively, not scream. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now listen to the New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK logic. Breech said something great: “He who is fighting may lose. He who is not fighting at all has already lost." And I'm talking about Greek-Turkish. You are not seriously fighting Greek-Turkish. You're making ruthless mistakes! Our proposal: Since Turkey is insulting international conditions and is constantly talking about casus belli, we are going to say the same. That if research starts between six and twelve miles, Crete, Rhodes etc., it is casus belli. Do it! Let the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for National Defence say that he is a casus belli if that is the case, so that we do not soothe ourselves in the beast called Turkey. And I will tell you what, ladies and gentlemen, Greece's tactics have been reminding me for fifty years, not now. For God's sake! Greece's tactic reminds me of the one who feeds the wolf with meat, but at the same time does him a seminar for rapism. We feed him meat, we open him up, and then we talk about rapism, that is, international treaties. We are thus feeding him meat, and then we talk about international conditions and rapistism. You can't do that! The Turkish sees only one thing: power and deterrence. Nothing else! Understood! And I'm coming seriously. Dokos, our Prime Minister's security advisor, goes out and says a month and a half ago about the Aegean. The other one, Rosakis, who is a consultant, an old-fashioned pasochikos, is steadfast to the press, who is a major professor, and speaks of a isolated island in Kastelorizo. He used to say other things. Now it's changing us. I've read his books and articles. He used to say other things about AOZ. Now he's fucking with me! So he's talking about isolated island in Kastelorizo. Rosakis! Diakonopoulos also comes out and speaks of a profitable deal. Congratulation, then, exposes MPs and ministers, but you still hold Rosaky as a counselor at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'd have kicked him out! Get him out of here now! Get rid of every "Rozaki" who creates breaches in the country's foreign policy. He can't say that Kastelorizo is far away, like Cyprus is far away. And unfortunately the President of the Republic is also coming out and making a criminal mistake. I do not know who used Mrs Sacellaropoulou's Twitter, which we did not vote on, but she made a mistake, unfavorable mistake, taken by Turkey. Wrong! He says: "I came to Agathonisi, a small island, away from the mainland." I do not know if he has a manager, but this is Turkey's argument that these islands are far from the mainland, referring to Greece, is their argument. And underneath it writes about "Greek" with "e". That's small for some, but it's big for me. "Greek" is with "E" capital. But "away from the mainland" would the President of the Republic say, which went to Agathonisi? The Turkish argument? These are mistakes, which Turkey unfortunately learns because we are being watched, ladies and gentlemen. Here's what's the difference between Greek foreign policy and Greek foreign policy. We don't know our enemy. Thucydides, thousands of years ago, said that in order for you to be able to face both military and politically and socially your enemy, you must know him, read him. We don't read our enemies. I'm telling you that. And now Erdogan's spokesman, Chelik, and he says: "Don't you dare joke with our navy. It is not enough for your boi." Today, Mr Colleague, this morning. The fascist spokesman, Nazi, militant Erdogan, came out and talked about "bi" Greeks! From the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs no reply. Such a statement offensive, provocative, never existed! "Don't you dare make fun of our navy," referring to Greece's effort to prevent Turkish vessels coming to the Aegean Sea, to the EEZ of Cyprus or Crete. Not a single report, all disappeared. Now listen to the great stories of people talking about realistic policy. They've always told us that with the Turkish people we have nothing to break up with. I have another point of view. Peoples clearly, as a level verbal, may have nothing to separate. With Turkey, however, we are divided by thousands of dead, we are separated by blood, massacres and rape, and the proof of today is this: nine out of ten Erdogan voters want the mosque, the Agia Sophia mosque, nine out of ten Bachtellis, seven out of ten Aksener, four out of ten Kemalists. So what are we talking about? So it separates us, and the logic and above all - I will say it directly - the practical application of chauvinistic, militant claims. When a hundred NGOs come out today, yesterday, yesterday, and they claim from Greece - listen here - for properties, Dodecanese, western Thrace and Crete, why are they using again - I tell you, they have read us - what the Turkish factor is using? Dodecanese. Why? Because we received it from Italy later than the Treaty of Lausanne, and they use this void, as they think they do, for claims. It's all I'm saying and I'm trying to tell you everything I'm saying every time. I have nothing with the New Democracy. It has the real logic, the logic of the Greeks. And this is evidenced by the Skopje yesterday. The Macedonians officially come out and demand that the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs call them "Macedonia". And what do I ask of the New Democracy, Mr. Comrade? What have I been asking you for months? A committee of inquiry, let's see why Kotzias signed the Prespecies Agreement, see if this agreement happened, because he wanted it, the Germans, the Americans wanted it, and we betrayed Macedonia. They betrayed Macedonia. And you're making garrisons in the New Democracy. Nobody's talking. I was told by Mr Tasulas: 'April we will discuss, in May we will discuss, in June we will discuss.' You'll tell me there wasn't time. It's July now. That's a shame, it's a disgrace to all of us. Of course I will give some information now to my dear colleague, to take it to the Prime Minister, because this is where we came to help him, and I want to help the New Democracy and every government of the Greek Parliament, every government. Mr. Comrade, please ask Niarch for the helicopters. I had informed the Greek Prime Minister that there are eight armoured at Piraeus, confiscated, and he went and received them in his honor. So today I inform him that there is a helicopter - it is this, Mr Colleague - of the Civil Aviation Service, for ten years, paid by the Greek people and parked in 'Eleftherios Venizelos'. The police are using them. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They've been parked since 2010, helicopters. Do we have a lot? We don't have much. We can take that. Mr Stylianidis, Mr Markopoulos, who was with you in New Democracy at the time, is now no longer in New Democracy. Here in the photos, hugs, kisses and helicopter were never used, Civil Aviation Service, ten years parked in "Eleftherios Venizelos". If this is called governance by PASOK, SYRIZA and New Democracy, and we have a fortune paid, necessary, but we don't use it, something's wrong. So I'm telling you, look into it, take the chopper, help you do a job. Because from air and theory you are first, from substance you are not first, and the answer is irreversible. I'll tell you quite simply: you're making false alliances. You allied with the Italians, who are enemies of Greece. You went and did an EEZ, which is maritime zones and not an EEZ - you did not do EEZ with Italy - giving the French overseas islands and Strofodes. What Italians? The Italians supporting Turkey in Libya. What Italians? Who hit us in the back with the knife. And you gave them something. What did Greece get? You tell me. And what Italians? Let's not forget that the Italians were hostile to Greece, from the Roman period, Byzantium, the Pope, in 1453, later with the Northern Continent, what did he do with Albania, which made a state not to take the Northern Continent, in 40 what did the Italians do? When were our Italian friends? And how do you give the Italians something without you getting something back? Wrong alliances. And today Dendias is running the poor guy, now, to go see Saleh in Libya, so we can change the roll now. 'Cause we're changing Roots. We don't support Haftar at all, we never supported him anyway. But not to support Sarage, let's go to Saleh, we're running to Saleh. It is unacceptable for a policy every week to change foreign policy. It's unbelievable. And finally I expect Mr Panagiotopoulos - we have proposed to him, we have given him a study - that Greece finally do unmanned aircraft. We gave him a study, we talked together, we told him we'd go to S.H.I.E.L.D., there's ready, we can do it. We gave it to him. I'm still waiting for him to tell us what's happened. And you made a deal with America. With France, go with France. I say this directly and publicly by the Greek Parliament. Our interests are similar to France, we are going with France. It's over and out. It can't be done. Decide to support McCron, with whom I disagree ideologically, but at this stage, because our interests are common, we can move forward and go together. In closing here, I will say what De Gaulle has said and I tell Mr Lebanon: the tragedy of our time - De Gaulle said - is that the Left is turning against the nation, and the Right against the state. You privatize everything, you sell it all out. That's who you are. You did the water, you did everything in private. And to understand what crimes you have committed with tourism, without Chinese, English, Russian and American, the Germans will come, who know them well, take a tomato salad, a little onion, get a slice of watermelon and buy the hotels. So you do not practice political economics. Unfortunately, I think you are making mistakes for me. And one last mistake is what you did with the NGOs, you keep changing their name. You have now done them, he says, 'organisations of civil society' by NGOs, that is, as the troika, which have become 'institutions', has done something else. These are incredible things, graphics, unacceptably diligent. And if it weren't for the Greek Solution, that Dutch-spirited NGO, Mr. Comrade, wouldn't close. We sent papers to Lesvos to the police, the Greek Solution managed this NGO to disappear from Greece. What NGO? “Movement on the ground”. That's what it's called. It's closed, we denounced illegal action, the Dutch, and they went home. A party of 4% can do the self-evident thing, closes a non-governmental organization of an unwilling. A New Democracy of 40% can't shut them down by all the anti-French, medieval organisations and stay the serious ones doing a job? You can. You probably don't want to because you're the same as SYRIZA. You are feeding through this story, from non-governmental organisations, which are, unfortunately, unethical and mizellenic. Take the country's rule seriously. Move in the wrong direction and the worst of all I'll tell you now. It's that rocks are close. September is coming, and unfortunately we'll pay her, and we're not to blame. We're trying to get you on the right track. The helicopter, Mr. Levane, the helicopter, go and get tomorrow, as you got the eight cars. And more I can tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. We are now entering the list of speakers. Of course, the parliamentary representatives can speak in the intervening period whenever they wish. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head of the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in many cases private initiative has been a source of support for the efforts of States to improve many of the conditions of the daily lives of citizens. Many examples to which we could refer, both in Greece and abroad, where individuals and institutions have gone to brave donations, which at the centre are human, whether they relate to a purely research, academic level or to actions with tangible results and directly apparent to the citizen. Today, the power of private initiative meets the receptiveness of the state - and to be clearer - which recognises, accepts and does not fight the private initiative. The donation contracts of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the Greek state that we dominate prove the truth. With targeted health actions, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation aims to protect and promote public health. And all this, at a particular time, during a pandemic that scans the world at a time when the generous offer of "Stavros Niarchos" gains even greater value due to conditions, needs and data. By means of flagrant projects, these donations show that when a state cooperates and sees the individual as a potential ally, the results are positive for the benefit of the citizens, the final beneficiaries of each donation. These donations are part of the international initiative of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for COVID -19 with emphasis on strengthening health services in Greece, Europe and Africa and providing assistance at local community level in the USA. With a donation of millions of euros, the Niarchis Foundation supports the renovation of rooms in nineteen hospitals in Greece. Work on the construction, repair, reconstruction and renovation of installations is financed for the operation of ICU and MAF beds, as well as training programmes for the subject of intensive treatment for staff of these units. With a aid that we would call at least valuable, we achieve adding a total of seventy-seven beds of intensive treatment and forty-six beds of increased care in the country, as well as a training programme for the staff of these units. In close cooperation and building on the important dynamics and prospects of cooperation between the public and private sectors, we seek to strengthen the readiness of the National Health System in emergencies. These donations demonstrate the support of the institution to all those who provide services of vital importance in meeting the immediate needs of the most vulnerable people. Since the first moment, the important role of the human potential of hospitals and clinics has been in dealing with this health crisis. The proper training of medical staff is of paramount importance for the effectiveness of the battle for each patient's survival. The foundation through this donation supports a comprehensive training program for every doctor and every nurse and nurse in intensive care units for five years. After five years, the program will continue by the Greek State. It is clear that in order for it to be effective in tackling a global health crisis, such as the one we live in, it is more necessary than ever to cooperate between the private sector and the state institutions. We can all be stronger now, ensuring better conditions for those who fight every day for the protection of public health. Ladies and gentlemen, our government has generally handled the pandemic period very well. And today he does the right thing to relaunch the economy through the new reality we live in. With the same seriousness and respect as regards these large donations as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. At this unprecedented and very difficult time for our country, as at other times in the history of the Greek nation, it was the great benefactors who helped and those who put back to the difficult. This is not the first time that we have pointed out the contribution of the donation of the Nightmare Foundation for the renovation of the National Health System, for its modernisation, for the better training of medical staff in the country. He has always supported - and supports - public health. And it's not the only one. Individuals, entrepreneurs, shipowners, companies and other institutions helped in this unprecedented health crisis. Many kind donations to all hospitals in Athens and district show that private initiative has always been a helper in the state, especially in the difficult ones. The Ministry of Health in collaboration with the private initiative, among others, doubled the ITH beds in the country. This is also an important reserve for the future. In Ioannina, too, the intensive treatment beds were increased and at the private initiative of the company "HHITOS", natural metal water "ZAGORI", which helps many others in the field of humanity and culture. Of the few masks that every citizen could have from his late offer to the Cooperative Bank of Epirus and her offer to three hundred thousand medical gloves at the University General Hospital of Ioannina, private donations to medical equipment have come to meet daily needs of much increased demand. The donor list is long and worth at least one thanking each other, regardless of the level of the offer. We are proud as Greeks and ascontinents with such actions that stand out and stand out from sensitivity and solidarity. It gives us strength to continue. Each individual and all united together managed to effectively manage the pandemic. We are now returning a step - a step forward in the new regularity more prepared, with more equipment for the next day, to protect everything we have achieved so far. We are more prepared to face any threat in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA. I shall then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I waited for the day before yesterday, although I left - and I asked - that the questions I asked - and which our rapporteur has repeated today - to the Committee on Parliament, which was discussing the amendment to the ratification that we are voting on today, that you would reply. They told me you didn't even take the floor. I hope you're answering today. For it is clear that we cannot vote for such amendments to the Convention. I am now being snatched by something the previous speaker said: return to the new normality. I'll tell you about regularity. Today we have July 1st, we've spent a semester. Do you know what the budget for the health sector has been implemented by your Ministry since January to this day? So, to make it specific: How much money have you given from the State General Accounting Office, from the state budget, the hospitals and the U.S. to this day? It's been half a year. You should have given half the money out of what you had budgeted for. So we did it, Andrea, from mid-2016 onwards? Every quarter normally, we wrote that this is how we paid back the previous and the others. You, while you have kept the spending limit at our last year's levels, have budgeted 728 million euros that you will give from the General Accounting Office of the State and so far, 1 July, you have only given 181 million. Secondly, from the EEA, when we received him giving EUR 50 million, EUR 60 million a year in hospitals, and we reached it at 670 million. We have 1 July and so far, from what I have learned, once again from valid information, you have given EUR 120 million. In other words, since the beginning of the year for a total turnover near 2 billion, you who support the public health system - that is regularity - and you've been playing and balconies in heroes doctors and nurses instead of 2 billion in total. And it's been half a year. If you hadn't been left by the black-boys, 300 million cash surplus and all of this... That's what you're pulling off now, but it's over. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u140	We've got credit... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u141	You need some political economy lessons, Mr. Contozamani. Yeah, you need it, of course, because you've had a lot of money on the funds - don't you? -300m euros, more than they would need if you paid everything. Well, you have budgeted that you have to give around 2 billion -- 1,700 I tell you and the same revenue - and you've given half a year of 300 million, you who support the health system. The parentheses are closed. That is the new regularity and that is the support of the public health system. You're about to hear jumps. We have information from all over Greece that a subsidiary is starting and is not being paid, because the extra funding, which you said, has gone. Has he gone? Because some hospitals have told us that the subsidiary is not paid, because the funding has not come. Don't repeat the same thing. I said it the other day. I'm expecting answers for the EAW. And I'll do more specific. Will you proceed by making use of the Ministry of Health’s reserve, which, if you do not have it in mind, is from EUR 12 to EUR 14 million per year? So I propose to you: You have 6 to 7m euros from the reserve this year to repair with EAW and the other two helicopters of EAW and not just to make the market that says to make Stavros Niarchos. Secondly, renegotiate and do not sign the maintenance contract. From the quick look I have taken and from what I have reaffirmed the prices of spare parts are too high and contains the costs of training which Leonardo must bear. They're getting great money. We will not pay for the training of pilots and technicians. For the ICUs, I expect you to make clear to us which hospitals are new beds and what is the reconstruction of old existing spaces and number of beds and the purchase of new equipment. As far as education programmes - to say them more by their name today - do not give the TOURAX Foundation training for the units. Now this is just a pocket money from the "Narchor" Foundation. He has nothing to offer. This training programme for the retraining of qualified and nursing workers in intensive care units is very badly written. The Education Committee of the ERC can do so well to improve the programs and it can well strengthen the Foundation of the "Nixon" of the Hellenic Society of Intensive Treatment and the seminars, which it does and, of course, finance scholarships or transfers of skilled or qualified experts in the European Intensive Treatment Society seminars. That's it. Some people - and I am talking about Mr Russo - in spite of the offer they have undeniably had to reform intensive therapy in Greece, at some point we have to understand that they cannot always have under their control the whole process of training intensive therapy in Greece. Thank you God, there have been many bright and bright scientists in the space, who can take the shrine of the education of younger generations into intensive healing, and they must be strengthened rather than going through there. For 'ATLS' and for the rest I said it. And I'm going to close up with something else. It's what I told you last time, that you're getting our truth - I'm finishing with it - and you're making it a rag. I have caused you twice, I challenge you again and thirdly today: can you tell me how much we pay for the PET SCAN, which you have scandalously and on your own initiative removed from the donation with one of the first modifications you have made, the cyclotrons for the production of the medicine we agreed on? You remember we agreed on four cyclotrons. You did this on your own initiative. You're the one who pushed the Nightlord to remove it, because you said we'd buy it from the others. How much is he paying for today, Mr. Contozamanis? How much does the radio medicine pay for that? The amount that he pays for today, where was that indescribable person you put him and put him in the Central Health Supplies Committee, and said that we're paying him 300-350 euros? I know that EEAY, especially after the withdrawal that took place, and despite the negotiation, pays it EUR 470, because another company entered and dropped the monopoly from the CAR. It would cost us about 150 to 200 euros if we put the cyclotrons on. You did a regular service to the company that produces the radio medicine in Lavrio by canceling the donation of the cyclotronies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u142	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u143	That's what you did. EEAY pays today 470 euros when in adjacent countries they pay 150 and 200. That's the new regularity. And we're gonna change all this. Explain yourself so we don't get any misunderstandings. This is also a warning to you and to the Niarcha Foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we at Mera25 - and I personally - are fanatical against all kinds of charity both morally and if you judge these kinds of actions and even just in listening to the term. I mean, I get allergy even when I hear that a man considers that he is entitled and can be a philanthropist. You know, the rest of the people aren't cats, they're not rats. These wonderful superiors in many things are better than us. I do not think it is any less than us to make this clear in the first place. I think they exactly have the same value for our land and for the evolutionary experiment that is taking place on this planet. Just as our culture, because our thumb happened to be opposing the other fingers, so we managed to build tools, one of which was finally the pen or pen, if you prefer, and so we have the comparative advantage over the other wonderful vertebrates of concentrated knowledge, that is to say to know what all our ancestors learned. While a poor kitty is forced to learn empirically how to hunt her child, to learn it empirically to avoid misappropriations, we can learn the whole history of humanity to our twelfths if we have a special appeal to it. So that is the only fact that makes - not immoral - charity toward other animals, charity toward other kinds of things. But in my opinion, and in the opinion of Mera25, it will remain completely immoral. It is not right, as the late Andrew Papandreou would say, that no man should charitable another man, because then we first admit that there are people of different speeds unless the government or some of those who are the government believe the Greek people are animals. They are also animals, of course, as we are also living and living, but I say that in the sense of cats or dogs or mice, which would be a good thing and reasonable to accept charity. So, of course, donations are useful and so are welcome, especially at the time when they come to meet the most urgent, real, urgent needs of the Greek people, particularly in such a neuro-algal and critical area, such as our health, in a period of time, in which pandemic is still under way. And I fear to say here in passing that since today - good month to all of you - the pandemic's development is at risk of taking a much more dramatic turn. I hope to be disproved, but what the Prime Minister so urgently repeats that we are ready, we have the perfect system and we wait for it at Mera25. On the contrary, we see a treadhole - a punk which does not at all reassure us about what will happen when tens of planes come to our country a day. So the present, which we are voting on today, is for that reason. We are voting 'at present' because we consider that from the point of view, I am sorry to say it in the House, better and the... you know. Because if you really are not to have care for a party of the Greek people, if it is to be donated by Mr. Niarchos, if it is to be donated by Mr. Congres or Mr. Latsis, let's give it a donation, let's go the old bell. On the other hand, we have no moral, political and ideological right as Mera25 rather than always stressing the real dimension of the reality of this country, which, after ten consecutive years of crisis and monuments, is supported and continues to rely on and as long as your memorials and your refusal to break with the troika, which automatically means your acceptance of the break with the Greek people, will continue to rely on charity, the immorality, in my opinion, on private individuals, in order to support a fundamental constitutional obligation of the country, which is, of course, no other than care for the health of all citizens. I remind everyone of Article 21 of our Constitution. In a country that is tempting, ladies and gentlemen, the memorials must say that no one is innocent. Nor is the New Democracy Government innocent. Why? Because it systematically promotes and strengthens an ideologically and politically constantly shrinking state. What does a constantly shrinking state mean? It means an ever greater space for charity to come Greek benefactors - not to say anything about them - so that they can exercise their charity to us their pets. You are responsible as a New Democracy for shrinking the state because every time you shrink public health there is room for private charity. However, we must also not forget that you, the previous government, the SYRIZA government is the first to bring the donation contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. What do I mean by that, dear friends and left comrades? I've told you many times looking into your eyes, I mean that anyone who signs a memorandum can't finally escape from it. I don't blame you for the conspiracy, I'm not saying you're traitors, you won't say that at Mera25. We're saying you saw it otherwise than we saw it with you before and we're on until now, and you said the conspiracy is better than risking everything. However, how much preferable can a codification, which has led to your own four and a half years not hiring but a few doctors and sanitaries? Mr. Xanthos is here, he's one of the most polite politicians and you like people and the most successful ministers of SYRIZA. He has admitted publicly on several occasions that he was unable to hire those he wanted. And you know why he couldn't? You know that better than me, because the troika didn't leave him. I repeat to the left, the centre and the right - I have before me and the KINAL - and I tell you with love, believe me, as you choose at all costs to avoid the break with the institutions and the troika at the same time you choose the permanent break with the Greek people. Why? Because the Brussels decrees force us to deprive the Greek people of all the provision. Why now think - and I go to another topic - what about next year's budget? Mr Stagiras signed the Eurogroup's joint communiqué yesterday last week. This joint communiqué says that the institutions of growth are looking forward to Greece. We know very well after ten years of memoranda what 'expectation' means. ‘Expectance’ means desires and desires means ordering. You know well you are ruling that in a year's time the order is a primary surplus and you understand that with such a degraded society and economy with nothing to work, with growth not only being braked, but that it has gone to the fierce almost - I hope it is not a real unscrupulous one - you understand that the only way to have a primary surplus - I will not get tired of saying it - is wage reductions, it is a reduction in pensions and, of course, increases in indirect and direct taxes. The Greek people, and you must understand, have no room for reductions in wages, pensions and tax increases. He hasn't had five to six to seven years. It's melting down. It's down, it's down, it's down, it's down, it's down, it's down, He's reduced his income per capita under a third of what he was getting. Let us not talk about the unemployed, who will become another five hundred thousand by speeding up the crisis that the coronary had already started and accelerated. And not to hear jokes from the government that the crisis had not begun when the official figures show 482 million, if I am not mistaken, I lag behind in the last quarter of 2019 in relation to the forecasts and when the official figures also show a recession the first two months before the coronary in our country's development, instead of a 4% growth that Mr Mitsotakis said in election. I'm closing up to be brief in my time. I am not going to ask you the questions I have just mentioned so that the Greek people to whom I am addressing them do not forget them. We said what was going on with the primary surplus. There's nothing going on. We've said what's going on with growth. Nothing will happen, I tell you safely, because as long as you choose no rupture, no growth will come. And Mary's box, if you'll excuse me for the expression, and a freshman of ASEAN or Highly Industrialized, is well aware that there will be no growth in this place unless there is a restructuring of this damn, burdensome debt. A debt, I would remind you, which amounts to more than 358 billion at the moment. When this payback story began, it was 306 billion. We've given 325 maybe 350 more - the number I had before - billions of interest and we're still owed the amount. Without restructuring there will never be any growth. What about HERAKLE? With Herald, you're not doing anything or you're not doing anything. I don't know how you can afford to go to the next elections to the Greek people to look to him from the balconies and tell him "we charged you 12 billion while we couldn't charge you with bringing an act of legislation, but we did it because we love the predators more than you." You know my nice gesture, that's it. That's how they keep you to do that. I would also like to tell you that it is not just the 12 billion for which you will get a loan to give it for the "ERAKEL". Is that a disgraceful project implemented with a catastrophic failure in Italy what is it doing? It makes banks bankrupt as you know it better than I do - I am not an economist - that banks have no value at this time in Greece. They only value that we fools have been recapitalising so far from 2014 to 55 billion and 78 since 2009. The only value they have been assigned is their debt securities, i.e. mortgages on loans that have not been ‘red’. When a hedge fund predator gets a property of 100,000 euros - house or plot - and sells it for 4,000 euros, because that is how you have agreed and have the right to do so, then the next house or plot of a one that has not'red' his loan or even has no loan falls to 4,000 euros. When he loses 96% of the value of his property, someone is in danger of'red'. And when it'reds' lures the bank which'surrounds'. These are things that you see repeating, and KINAL, and SYRIZA, and the New Democracy for ten years and continuing in that direction. It's dangerous and worrying. Not to ask what happens with my colleagues, with the hundreds of sixty thousand involved in arts by painters, artists, choreographers, dancers, actresses, cleaners that clean us up, by the travellers who serve the world. There's nothing going on. There is only one thing, one single energy, the energy you all know from Ms. Mendoni, the dear Minister, called "All Greece - A Culture". I fear that this action is an action that has nothing to do with culture. The awards are indicative. The fact is that one drop in the ocean has been kind enough with direct assignments. Combine this with the fact that I know people and things, I know people who spent a year ago - the previous and the previous - all of their partners as producers and directors. I know, in other words, that they left eighteen and nineteen years old and twenty-year-old students of dramatically or just a graduate, unpaid of grants already received from the previous government - on the office of Mr Connordos. I know people with a name that have now been chosen by your Government and our Minister to get back to EUR 20,000 or EUR 30,000 to get back together and let the industry go to winter. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u147	I wanted to ask in procedural terms how we are going to have the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u148	Can we give the floor to a Member and talk to someone later? Do you want to speak as a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Blonde, what does he think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u150	I will speak after the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u151	Mrs Sophia Haido Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution. Parliamentary representatives can speak in the intervening period, if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u152	How many more speakers do we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u153	Two speakers. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the costs relating to the health of Greeks and Greeks should not be treated simply as an additional cost. They should be treated as an investment. The unprecedented and difficult conditions created by coronary elevation have mobilised a large part of the private economy. The pandemic brought the private initiative to the fore, and on the part of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" this initiative certainly tends to dominate the wider context of the health ministry's responsibilities. And there would be no mention of this if it were clear and whether the institution has taxly contributed to our country, considering the choice of its seat. In order to have a sustainable health system, realisation is needed. We should all understand the cruel reality. We cannot, however, comment on something that has really surprised us. The Greek State itself contacted the institution with the health deficiencies due to the spread of the coronary. Is it possible for the government itself to beg for donations? This alone creates the Greek citizen a sense of insecurity, makes him think that the health system is a clear vineyard. At the same time, the taxpayers who go with the money they contribute to the state are questioned when, for such a critical sector, there is no need for a pandemic to cover the shortages of hospitals. On many points in this debate, we can see that the public is being circumvented. At the same time, the institution will be able to finance the projects without asking anyone. It would be a serious failure not to point to the above and the consequences of illegal immigration, which touch aspects of the social fabric and have a full impact on the health sector. This is a matter that is perpetuated and gigantic every day. The Greek State is guaranteed in the part concerning the undertaking and fulfilment of the obligations of each hospital without having previously been involved in the selection of operators. The framework for the adequate funding required from the public is completely vague. How can one consent without even knowing how much one will need to pay? We read that the institution will be able to deviate at will from the amount of the total costs of completion of the project. Are we really talking about donation? Let us not harm the name, free advertising, because it will contain the name "Stavros Niarchos" in the peninsula Foundation. In the second individual donation contract, which analyses training for intensive treatment, total vagueness! The Greek State commits to ensuring the continuation of the programme with own resources. Honestly, when do you expect to tell us what size of commitment we're talking about? The same applies to the timetables, which should be more specific. It is foreseen that if the Greek public or the established PPP body are unable to comply with their obligations then the institution will have the right to terminate the agreement. The same does not apply if there is no compliance by the institution. We see a number of Greek public commitments and obligations through own resources, without any determination at all. The equal access of Greek citizens to health is a primary objective for us in the Greek Solution. We must protect and defend the good of health, especially now that it is more vulnerable than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow SYRIZA Member, Mr Panagiotis Skouriakos, is requesting a short-day leave abroad for personal reasons, from 3 July to 6 July. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u156	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Haritou, Deputy of SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to start unorthodoxly, ladies and gentlemen, but the question I will raise is directly related to the Ministry of Health. On June 15, the border station of Nymfaia was opened in Rhodope, a key pillar for road tourism and the region's tourism development. Over one million eight hundred thousands of non-European visitors cross every year through the portal of Nymfaia in our country. On June 15, then, it opened. And yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the government representative, in a surprise way, announced that since July 1st, since today - well heard - this entry gate is closed for our millions of our northern neighbours, which now leads them to the entry from Promahona. Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how hugely the damage caused to tourism and to businesses operating in the region is? I ask you, Minister: have you given your consent to such an unacceptable decision? A week ago the president of the EGE was in Komotini and assured the local actors that from July 1st, he will be set up at the Nymfaia station with a mobile control unit for visitors. You probably don't know what's going on with you. Alalum! I want you to know that all the actors in the region are in revolt, because this is a flagrant injustice against the region. You put a tombstone on her tourism. I urge the Government to immediately withdraw this inadmissible decision. And I come to the main point, ladies and gentlemen. One cannot recognize the importance and gravity of the Foundation's donation "Stavros Niarchos", which gains greater value because it is a continuation of the great donation to health that the Foundation has signed with the government of SYRIZA. I cannot help mention one of the eight major projects in the health field, perhaps the biggest one, of the building of the new Komotini hospital "Stavros Niarchos", a modern and high standards hospital, an ornament for the region, which was a political decision of the SYRIZA government, but which could not be implemented without the institution's honorary donation, which I would like once again to thank. To make use of, gentlemen of the government, the donation of the institution, but not to forget that its role is complementary and cannot replace the role of the state. But you're not doing well at all, gentlemen. A lot has already been mentioned. One thing that is directly related to the contract we are discussing: the ICU of the Komotini Hospital is subordinated, with serious operational problems. A bed corresponds to twenty - eight thousand inhabitants, when the average in Europe is a bed per eight thousand three hundred thirty inhabitants. Not to mention major deficits in medical and nursing staff in the hospital. In the months of the pandemic, three and all subsidiary doctors were recruited for thirty-six months, as well as nine subsidiary nurses for twenty-four months. Do you, gentlemen, know that, at the beginning of 2021, thirty-five subsidiary employees today, the nineteen of whom are nurses, ending their contracts and leaving? This is a staff who has lifted a great deal of weight in the middle of a pandemic and therefore the gaps will be much larger than before the pandemic. You, gentlemen, not only do you not support the public health system, but you do your best to weaken it. And don't tell me I'm wrong with you. In the previous amendment to Law 4654/2018 on February 22, which passed us, I would remind you of what was involved, Minister? The change in the status of the new Komotini Hospital and its conversion from public law to private law. You only did it a few days before the pandemic erupted. Let me ask you, Minister. Today after everything you and the Prime Minister of the country have said about the need to support public health, would you bring this regulation to the House? You, gentlemen of the majority, would you vote for it? You passed Law 4667/2020, amending the basic contract of 2018, without having submitted the annexes that accompanied it. I asked you with my question. I asked the Secretary-General the committee the other day to present them to the House. Nothing. Is there something we shouldn't know? Something that's hidden? One of the things that concerns the hospital organization leaves no doubt as to what the change in the character it has made. You are preparing a hospital that will no longer be an ESS hospital, but a hybrid hospital, open to private interests, insurance companies, to provide health services to those who obviously can pay. In this regard, equal access will be provided according to the facilities of the hospital, as indicated. A new status of job uncertainty and insecurity for workers and a completely different model of administration and relationship with the Ministry of Health. Minister, if what you say is more wise than the pandemic, if your references are worthwhile, the Prime Minister's reports that the current crisis leads to the strengthening of the National Health System, then I call on you to accept the amendment we tabled to restore the status of the new Komotini Hospital as a legal person governed by public law. Not only will you correspond to the new reality presented by the health crisis, but you will give even greater value to the very great offer of the institution. Besides, the choice to change the character is yours and the responsibility is borne solely by you. And the most relentless proof is that the original contract signed by the institution with the government of SYRIZA was a legal person governed by public law. I urge you, Minister, to accept the amendment we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u158	The last speaker is Mr Constantine Boubas from the Greek Solution. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a serious matter which we are discussing. It's about the public health item. I would like to remind you of something from the great teacher of medical Hippocrates who said "No doctor's eyes, who has not seen anything at all". One can't deal with medicine if he doesn't know what's human. And I say that because sponsorship from ancient times has been a sacred thing. Even the five hundred - year - olds and three hundred - year - olds wanted the sponsorships. But woe and alas after the PPPs that have become a lot of talk, say, give and open ferry to privatize health. If you go out and humiliated society, the Greek citizen will tell you that if he does not have five euros at the end - I am doing five francs at the end - he can't have access to health, because he will run and will not reach as far as public hospitals are concerned. Let me remind you of the rusty machines, palmographers, CT scanners, machines that were advanced technology, but also health centres, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, which since 2000 have been subordinated or do not work. Should we go to Arcadia, go to Mount Athos, go to Messinia, to the Black Sea of Serres? Institutions can't control them. If we take the articles through, we will see that the possibility of supporting projects as referred to in Article 1. So the donor will be the one to decide on the support projects? Article 2 also makes decorative the role of the state itself. Article 7 that will be advertised by the sponsor because he will put his money on, but he will have demands. Article 3 does not speak of a specific timeframe. But in any case, we cannot deal with a health that is now always on the table, open the door to private centres to make the establishment plan, decide on the business plan of hospitals. We're not playing with health. With health, we really don't play because there's a deposit left. You have another subsidiary donation, but here we cannot rely on mirrors and mirrors to the natives. You remember with the pipelines in Greece - see OPs. Share all the mirrors, get an ambulance, put a label on it and solved the issue. We cannot blur water to the civilian, defenseless and helpless citizen who needs what we say public health. A private person cannot set a timetable, talk about complementary projects and the state simply be the water buffalo. It is an opportunity to learn from COVID -19, which is the name of the coronary, to learn and indeed to staff and serve the hospitals. I can hear you, Minister, say about the increase in intensive care units. Why remind me of up to 30 million drachmas once cost a bed. But not with the blessings of a private person opening the ferry to privatize health throughout its greatness. And why does a shipowner not show up today, a sponsor, also give money to the national defense? Because there is no sign in there, there is no marketing, there is no visual contact of the sponsor, who does, but who cannot manipulate the whole situation as it is being formed. Why doesn't anyone come out to arm the police whose fleet is obsolete? Because the sponsor wants to show up, but also to control this whole situation. We cannot at the moment talk about a donation that will cover, in general, some of the measures in the wider public sector in the field of public health. According to the history of medicine, we expect a second wave of coronary, just like any virus. If we make a historical return from 430 B.C.E., in 541 C.E. In 1348, 1918, 1957, 1968 and 1977 you will see pandemics. Until Eleftherios Venizelos got sick of blood fever and this cost several billion drachmas in the Greek economy at that time. Appropriate and careful movements in the health sector must be made. Because what the world fears is not dealing with pandemic, as the past shows at least. People fear the system that is insidious, globalised, if you like - because I see that you are worshipers and rulers of a globalised system - going through the keyhole. On this issue, for example, of electronic health in our lives and the citizen must know, personal data with medical records can be checked at any time and at any time, where they may fall into the hands of donors. That is what concerns us, because we must have a core of man. It must be an anthropocentric in general, and the entire system must not be left to the government to get a donation, either to buy the machines or to equip the hospitals. And who will decide on the additional projects? The sponsor. Will he decide and how to recruit medical and medicate staff in the future? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] With certain machines to be purchased from each institution, from each sponsorship, in future consumables - which are black with over-cost - will be specifically the donor - from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and each institution will be the one to impose which consumables will be purchased at what prices and how they will be replaced. In other words, it is also a service, because it is another big chapter for which it is not mentioned. So, from the pandemic, you've got hospitals, you've got intensive treatment units, you're hiring staff, but you don't put an external agent outside the cell, as we say, public health's in charge. For example, you said that money would be provided by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation at the benchmarks. Serres Hospital, Minister, had cases. Why is he outside the reference hospitals and doesn't get any money for the coronary? There will also be some derogations and injustices for two and three speed hospitals. So, ladies and gentlemen, public health remains in the hands of the public, the state, the people and the social system. It cannot go through sponsorships or non-governmental organisations, which are experiencing the issue with NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Mr. Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, may I precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u162	I have no objections but Mr Lebanese has just asked why he has an interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u163	I have no problem with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u164	Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the fellow Member for giving me the permission to precede. I'll speak from my place. I would like to address you more as a parliamentary representative, Mr Minister of Health, on the more general issues that your sector has than to speak about something that is positive. It concerns the creation, financing - a very expensive thing - of new ICUs, many the number that will shield the country more. Because, ladies and gentlemen, developments in the United States, yesterday, I am not just concerned about it, but much more. And politics is not politics, it's not a solution, it's what you're doing to face what you might come to your country. Forty thousand cases, about two hundred dead in the United States, summer yesterday. Where mostly? In southern states it's hot. We need to realise what we have lived and what we are living together and must be combined, Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, two important goods, the health of the Greek citizens and of the Greeks and those who are here in Greece and on the other hand, the economy from which we are all living, lives and lives. These two conflict. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Rhodes is empty. Big hotels are closed. On Monday I had, for business reasons, a mission to Zakynthos, I saw that Zakynthos is empty. The biggest company was me and my clients in the main square. Soul! This concerns the government, because, Mr President-in-Office, the economic problem will become political, you have no doubt. But it is also about us all, because many are protesting to us, as if we were the government of the country, while we are not. We are MPs, members of the National Representation. So we will live with an open economy and with the pandemic not to retreat until vaccines and medications are discovered. We won't have a universal lockdown for a second time. So, when they fund you with equipment in intensive treatment units, you have to welcome this perfectly positively. You cannot say 'I have reservations and I do not vote'. You must be right, but, without 'but', it must be the reporter's proposal that undermines Mrs - without permanent staff, the solution will not be given. A relative, who was also a patient, a patient who unfortunately ended up in the intensive for weeks, was telling me first about the risk of infections - the ministers know these well, when they are doctors, better than me at least - and second about unskilled personnel! It's not possible in an intensive care unit to use the people you hired yesterday for a while. When they find out, they'll leave. Good organization of the IFs is equal to the existence of the IFs, as I have learned. Yesterday in SCAI you were very optimistic, Minister. I heard you and I was scared. You have stated that you have equipped the country to face the second potential wave that I wish it would not come. He doesn't just need the tool, he needs the man who works it. If you don't prepare him, now that you have time, if you don't stabilise him, if you don't finally make a decision as a government and you have all parties telling you 'yes, go quickly with regard to recruitment procedures', you don't care to tell anyone how many you hired. The previous ones have been saying this for months. I was saying I hired three thousand, doing the legality check myself to get them, nobody listened to me, I was eating wood. No citizen is interested in your number. But he will care if there is an ID and he dies or one of his own dies or he will care about the machines, but not the people. So summer is preparation time and all the means at our disposal must be exploited. You referred to the island country yesterday. You've referred to the staff you're taking or got, and that's going to go to island areas. Greece many say it is a country - I do not like the word -'multiple' and they want to say, with many islands, which each of them has people - what to do? - and he must have. And where it does not have to acquire, for other reasons, an essential economic activity or any economic activity or any activity, in any case. This man who's gonna be there to stay, wants support, education and health. And it's not a solution for you to have a beautiful island, yours and there to stay five immigrants and the boss, the Greeks, to stay elsewhere and to go. This poses other dangers. In any case, you have done nothing, without wanting to underestimate your work, without despising anyone or insulting him. But the problem of islands - pandemic - economy seems unresolved and the "Eshanna" from "cross" is four days away, four days when joy and smiles will become fear and terror in the popular reaction. July and August must be exploited, because they are not months to waste. Yesterday, Mr President, I followed the development of a WTO protest. It is the association of workers in public hospitals, doctors, nurses, basically from things, nurses, but from the statutes, doctors and nurses. His president, Mr. Giannakos, has been a bit of a bit of a treasury. The gathering took place on a sidewalk. Traffic didn't cut, episodes didn't create. From the report I saw, people were laughing. Idaris, he put a collar on it, and that was the proof of what? That the country is a country where law and order prevail? Proof of what was the beating of a president of a union or a citizen who protested, but who protested without disturbing his right next door? On the big sidewalk of the Ministry of Labour on Stadium Street, it fell. Yes, to regulate unregulated issues. Not beat the world. So what is it? Demonstration of power of the State having the monopoly of violence? What are these things? I denounce this to the National Representation and appreciate it as a Parliamentary representative worthy of reference in this Chamber, because we are discussing it in a few hours - and in a few days' time and in plenary - the issue of regulating the demonstrations by the Greek people and the reactions of the Greek people, the right to assemble and to sit together peacefully and without delay, which Article 11 of the Constitution guarantees. But this here was an example that should be strange to us. So what happens now? Shall we get bored? They told us that we did well at the pandemic, we're gonna beat the world up? I would like to stress this and repeat it, and I consider it worth mentioning it in this Chamber, without populism and excessive voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Lebanese has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Loverdos said about the three-fold islands - pandemic - economy. At no time has the government celebrated and proclaimed neither 'ozan' nor 'loaf'. She simply did her job, as did the entire Greek people. He fought for the best result. He faced, together with the help of Greeks and Greeks, the first wave of the coronary. It supported work and income, and we are now in the process of opening up our entire economy and of course opening up our tourism. At the same time, we shield ourselves with all the forces we have the National Health System. We are preparing for all possible and most importantly for the worst. And finally, we do everything that Mr Loverdes, the government, and the head of the Ministry of Health, which is here today, to do. At the same time we are working on the national economic recovery plan. And we are currently struggling with the success of bringing as many funds to our country to make this crisis an opportunity for our national economy and our national prosperity. Mr Velopoulos said a few things I have to answer. I begin by saying that he and his parliamentary group are in Parliament every day and do their jobs for which they are paid and for which they have been elected by the Greek people. I agree with him. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Party (Christian Democrats) Party of European It doesn't matter whether the government majority agrees or disagrees with them at all times. But in any case he, too, as a political leader, is more often than the other Heads of Responsibility in Parliament and the Members of Parliament, even though they are fewer, are trying to respond in the best way to their duties. And that's a given one. As far as his comments on national issues, on the government and on our side, there is no - and we have said so many times - I have said so in this Chamber - this dimension of the policy of reciprocity. There is neither endearment nor warfare from our Government. There is a national multi-dimensional policy with strategy and objectives which serve exclusively our national interests. We defend our sovereign rights and every inch of Greek land from our northern border to Crete and of course on every island and island of our seas. Apparently islandity is a characteristic of both our country and our history. We are therefore defending it and we tell all tons of every inch of land on all our islands, just as we do for the mainland. And we obviously repeat what, based on our successful policy so far, has become a common place both in Europe and beyond the Atlantic, in the State Department, and by the most official lips that all our islands, all of the islands have a continental continental shelf and an EEZ. As to the part of his reference to Agia Sophia, the Greek position has been expressed. Agia Sophia is a symbol of Christianity, but at the same time it is also a symbol of global heritage. It is obviously of great importance to all of us Greeks and Greek women, but it is of great importance to both the entire Christian world and to all those who understand the historical significance of St. Sophia. With regard to the Protests Legislation, where we will certainly have time to discuss it both in committee and in plenary, I would like to say just one word. The government's intention is to create a modern, progressive, liberal and above all democratic framework for the demonstrations. We are defending freedom of expression and the right to protest and protest with this. We are, however, protecting it at the same time - and this must be understood by those who are trying to find a way of arguing with this bill - the health, safety, citizens' integrity and, of course, the property whether it is public or private. We are basically protecting the rights of many of the barbarity of the few. We are punishing the violations and disasters both, as I said before, in private and public property, as well as in the right of citizens, Greeks and foreigners in our country, to be able to go to work safely, in peace and in time without suffering. To come on today's agenda, I would like to remind you that yesterday was the World Day of Parliament. So let me stress the value of this which is the best application of our democracy. We are all in here, regardless of which party we are representing the Greek people, the electors of our regions who have entrusted us with this sacred duty. We have a step in this sacred Chamber, operating as representatives of the nation. At the same time, each of us has a duty to protect precisely parliamentaryism in order to protect democracy itself. I am referring to this because what has seen the light of publicity in the last few days, with the revelations about the extra-institutional functioning of SYRIZA - ANEL government officials, have affected our own democracy. Interventions in Justice and Police, the conscientious concept of these governments or even members of these governments, but also the way in which this scandal is managed by SYRIZA's leadership, create an image of sepsis and decay, an image of extremists who alone had the purpose of safeguarding power and the extermination of political opponents, without any moral barrier, aimed at the joints of power. The New Democracy, our great democratic party, will not follow SYRIZA in this political gull. We won't let the para-state infect the political life of this place. With faith in democracy, the Constitution and the Greek people, we will apply the laws, following the institutional path, because, as the Prime Minister pointed out in yesterday's Ministerial Council, the institutional order, democratic and institutional regularity is the strongest response to those who tried to set up an attempt to manipulate the institutions, because our democracy is strong and functioning in an intransigent and absolute rule to distinguish between powers. Obviously, what I am saying also covers many members of your party, but we must become the central political reason for its leadership. We are working as we deal with the crisis of the Covid pandemic. Here I would like to congratulate once again in this Chamber the head of the Ministry of Health for their excellent attitude, their self-renunciation, and, of course, their results, which we have had from the very first moment in the institutional world, and which succeeded in the assembling of the whole society on our side. The public health system, the OSH, has endured and responded remarkably to the titaniumic work it has undertaken. Private health units supported this project, highlighting the benefits that can arise from the private sector's cooperation with the public sector. For the New Democracy, the National Health System is and will obviously remain public. We supported and, of course, we will continue to support and strengthen this public health system and this because I read the speech of the former Minister for Health in committee, I think we agree, regardless of whether he also made a view of how the New Democracy came to this result of thinking. In any case, that was always our position, we serve it, and I am very glad that we will be together in this race, Mr Xanthi. The Ministry of Health has received five hundred sixty - five beds of ITH, and we finally reach the thousand seventeen. The goal of the leadership is to reach twelve beds per 100 thousand inhabitants, i.e. the thousand two hundred IF beds. Private initiative and entrepreneurship supported the public health system either by PPPs - it can do so in the future - or by donations. We have seen the results in the quarter of the crisis not only from the interventions of the Niarchus Foundation, but also from Papastratos and from many others, even from ordinary citizens, who have done what they could to help in the joint effort. A characteristic example of these synergies is today’s bill. We all have to recognize the important offer of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" in the field of health and not just. With this bill, as our rapporteur, Mrs Bryzidou, has exceptionally explained, previous donation contracts with the Greek State are amended by adding, among other things, two important projects relating to the operation of the hundreds of fifty-five beds of intensive care units - this is the answer to the question you raised before - and nineteen beds of MAFs in fifteen public hospitals throughout Greece. The recent crisis has brought to the surface the undeniable need for strong and accessible public health and education systems. We, as I said before, commit ourselves to the public nature of the National Health System. We recognize, however, that we must not hide under the carpet the problems it has. The ESS has structural weaknesses that we need to correct with plan and hard work. We believe that it should receive the necessary financial resources, but also ensure that these resources are used efficiently. That is exactly what the ministers and officials of the Ministry did during the pandemic, and we will continue in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is implementing a liberal policy with social significance. Our lasting objectives are to combat inequality and broaden the middle class. We achieve this by ensuring equal opportunities for all, strengthening economic and social mobility and aiming at growth and prosperity for many. Yesterday we passed the microcredit bill. Today we are discussing a draft health aid bill. Step by step, we are trying to build the Greek dream, that is, the possibility for every Greek and every Greek to progress regardless of their social or economic position. We invest in public goods and strive to improve basic public functions, such as health, education and justice. In this context and having heard the recommendations of those who have spoken to date, I hope that this bill will have a response from all the wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, could I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u170	Of course, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like to say that I accept the parliamentary amendment tabled by a general number of 384 and a special 67. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u172	Can you tell us what he's talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u173	I would like to see the honourable Member presenting it to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u174	Yes, but my colleague has spoken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u175	Do you want to support it or present it? Haven't you presented it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u176	I support it, Mr President. It's been tabled by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u177	I'm trying to understand. Wait a minute. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u178	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u179	Very good. Have you supported it in your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u180	In my speech, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u181	Okay. For a minute, can you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u183	I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, but it is not an anti-parliamentary procedure. Let him talk for a minute, if that's what the Minister says. Let's not fight about nothing. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to support an amendment concerning daily care units and allowing them to be installed in office buildings. I think that by removing the urban restrictions that have so far been in place for daily hospitals, it will be more effective to provide health services to the general population and more effective to their contribution to primary health care, while dismantling hospitals from incidents that can be dealt with away from secondary and higher nursing establishments. I tabled it and accepted it, as the Minister said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. I haven't read it, but do you think that all the urban restrictions on the day-to-days will be lifted, or do you mention some specific ones? Because if they all are lifted, we have had cases in Peristeri, as you will remember, as well as other cases in this regard. In other words, they were building associations, and they actually did it. How can I say it? You can take the floor, Minister, because it's serious as a matter, and now I'm interfering without knowing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u186	It's all right, Mr. President. It's a good faith, obviously, on your behalf. Obviously not, therefore, according to the framework that exists, which ensures that daily care facilities can be used by our fellow humans and with special skills and on the basis of urban rules. We just understand the use and need of daily care units. You all know very well that in the modern care system and on the basis of the bill that we have today, there is the issue of intra-university infections and the attempt to limit the stay of a patient within a secondary-territorial clinical of the university hospital or hospital. So, as a philosophy, we support intensive treatment units in the country and increased care units, and we try to limit the patient's stay in the ordinary clinics. Mr President, we are very well aware of the malfunctioning of the system as to how various laboratory tests or digital tests should be carried out. Occasionally, our fellow citizens are hovering in our hospitals, creating a problem for patients and their families. The modern approach of these incidents, according to literature and science, is the minimum stay within hospitals and daily hospitals serve this purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u187	Good. I think it has been discussed in full and there is no complaint. Mr. Viliardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, now has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. To be fair, we will start from the fact that the Nightmare Foundation gave 100m euros for the pandemic, almost all the other rich in the country together, according to a published count. In any case, we were struck by the only three meth beds donated by the scandal corporation, NoVARTIS, together with some equipment, when only in the United States paid for its money in Greece for over 300 million euros. Of course, 300m euros for a company that has monthly profits after taxes a billion euros is only its profit for a few days, but how much more, the three beds! Now, we have mentioned many times in bills concerning the Foundation of the Nearchist, so there is no point in repeating, hoping that the government does not count them in its statistics on the draft law, that is, what it submits for ratification in the House, as it rarely changes something, while it thinks it is the right way of dealing with the enormous economic, immigration and national problems of our country. If it were so easy, if it were solved, that is, just by depositing bills, no country would have any problems. And Greece's problems are constantly getting worse, since the government has been documented on all fronts, disappointing once again the Greeks. In summary, now, our reservations to the Convention with the "Norarch", to remain on the subject, are as follows: First, tax haven. The Niarchas Foundation is based in the Bahamas, which we do not regard as legitimate. What does it really offer to the Greek economy? Of course, it does not only finance Greece. But could it not have been based in Greece at least on matters relating to it? Second, show charity. The Foundation demands that its name be displayed against its donors when several claim that the benefit of the name's projection should be deducted from the donations, as we will later deposit it all in the Minutes. Thirdly, there is no cost to the State General Accounting Office for the consequences. In this case, the project is essentially complementary to the budget concerned, as it covers its needs. But it also creates new needs, so it should be costed. If not, be included in budgets. Fourth, controversial feasibility. We had mentioned the disagreement on the part of the member of the Board of Directors of the EKA, Mr Papanikolaou, on the technical specifications of helicopters. We also mentioned the refusal of the "Advertising" to grant room for a nursing school. As to the costs of hospitals, in the example of Komotini, is the amount of EUR 105 million reasonable for just two hundred ten beds, when the original plan envisaged EUR 50 million, as we will be tabling in the Minutes? Couldn't two hospitals be built with the same money? On the other hand, does a EUR 50 million hospital have the same maintenance costs as EUR 105 million? Apparently not! So why should so much money - even donations - be wasted when Greece has so many needs? Fifth, heterogeneous contract terms. The conditions laid down are as strict as those which remind me of commercial contracts and, in fact, of lion's terms as referred to in Article 1. For example, the Greek State compensates the Niarchas Foundation in the event of the project not being implemented. Sixth, NGO funding. The institution has made funding by NGOs related to illegal immigration, while in the relevant regulatory framework we have identified too many problems. In view of the above, we are reasonable to wonder whether Greece needs these kinds of donations. Also, why not make the money available in the budget, since the ‘Norarch’ takes health expenditures in other areas such as defence, for example, how much more so since the Ministry of Defence covers additional health expenditure, such as care in a CYPD? On the other hand, as far as shipowners are concerned, it was announced that a donation of EUR 6 million was agreed at their meeting for the renovation of sanitary facilities and for the supply of bed covers, which was described as a huge offer. At the same time, however, they did not pay for the entire voluntary contribution that was agreed and which was expected to be EUR 420 million - as we will be tabling in the Minutes - and it is said that only 85 million were collected, as the current Minister for Development, which we will also present in the Minutes, because we do not want to say anything without supporting it. On the articles now, the bill actually has two, one relating to contracts for SITs, etc., Projects IX, X and VII, and a second concerning the supplementary contract for helicopter replacements, Project V. With regard to the infringements of contracts, namely their terms, we have the following comments on the first, since we have already mentioned in the helicopters in the past and will not repeat them. Firstly, the timetable is not set in Article 3 of the Works IX and X Convention, which is important for aerospace, as is the case for the IFs to avoid a next lockdown, a next lockdown of our economy. Until when will the aircraft be available? It is a question of course to the Minister. Secondly, in the event that the relevant part of the donation is not implemented, it is refunded, while the public is charged with the costs incurred by the institution, which is also not specified in Article 8 of the Project IX Convention. For example, what if a government, as is very likely, leads us to a next memorandum or should they be stopped for reasons of force majeure, as would a war? Are we going to pay the foundation? Thirdly, the obligation to maintain, operate, safety and security and, in the event of loss, the State should replace it. Why, really? It makes sense, of course, in terms of maintenance, but why is the cost not paid by the General Accounting Office of the State not being paid? We refer to Article 7 of the Maintenance Convention of Project IX. Fourthly, since the annex to the Convention, we have seen how the MITs will be made in Athens, Thessaloniki, Crete and Mytilini. For example, Thrace, Patras, Rhodes and Corfu are missing. Example: on what criteria? Who's the choice from? From the "Nearch" or the Ministry? With what logic? Population-based? Based on the existing needs? They are questions that we think should be answered. Has the tourist strategy been taken into account in the event of incidents? So will tourists be transferred from Rhodes or Corfu to Athens by increasing the cost of aerospace? Is it possible to operate only during the tourist season? Has there been any staff in these areas? Can the contract finally be changed, or should money be repaid to the ‘Narchor’? In general, however, the contract seems to be problematic, as a trade agreement rather than as a donation, at an unknown cost for the State as regards its possible obligations. In addition, the implementation schedule is not set to plan the state mechanism in the light of the pressing needs of the coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too. Mr Katsotis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let us say that for the amendment we will vote against, we do not agree. Of course, our rapporteur has developed the issue of the bill for a long time. I would like to say, with my position, on what the representative of the New Democracy said, that they guarantee the rights of many against the barbarity of the few. Now who are the many and who are the few we will discuss it and then we have the bill on the protests. However, the barbarity of the majority of our people is the result of this policy pursued by the New Democracy, but also of all governments to date. Unemployment, poverty, impoverishment, poverty benefits for workers, hunger pensions, all this is the result of your policy, it is the barbarity that our people live on. And when he claims, he is against the forces of repression, in order to serve this policy required by the great capital, to ensure its implementation and implementation. This is what is being served today by the bill on demonstrations. You want to strike this movement that stands against your policy, standing against its employers and pursuits. You want to hit this movement that is not disciplined, which is incompatible with this policy that you are pursuing. That won't pass. The movement itself has experience of the law that you are bringing today - and that is where the bill is based, in the Royal Decree of 1971, writes it in and your bill - and also from Laskaris in 1976 to Law 330, where the movement itself made it inactive, abolished it. And there we had thousands of redundancies and repression. We are talking about many thousands of people who were made redundant and, of course, have been vindicated in the course of the struggles. We have, of course, had the course of repression and the time of the crisis, where we still had the dead, and we have also been wounded. But the movement won't back off. The movement is not compatible. You may even now have a "yes, but" by your movement forces that promote social society, the compromise, which is blocking all the mobilization, but you will still not succeed, because these forces are detested to the conscience of the workers and the people. They are forces that sit on their neck through the support of your own and the employer, through the great fraud they do so that they can secure their chairs. You also support them through money-savings, so that they can get in the way of this movement that, if you want, demands the modern needs of the workers and the people. You have put forward arguments which are funny. You say that many here create a problem and people can't come down to Athens. But you did the Big Walk, as they say. Why did you do it? To get the I.C.s down. The crowded ones, the walkers, the walkers? Why did you walk him? Tell us when you are telling the truth when you support the "around" and the reinforcement, as you say, of public transport or when you say that I.C. to pass through Athens and not to be allegedly prevented by the assembled? What do you think? That this is the obstacle for people to shop in shops or that they have no money, that they are unemployed, are they poor, are they impoverished? The man who has a shop downtown in Athens, and who has Maroussi, what prevents Maroussi? The gathering is going to take place in the center of Athens? What keeps him in Glyfada? What's to prevent him from being taken away from Alimos who owns his shop? Is this the gathering that's going on in Athens? That's where the problem is? So don't invoke these things. Of course, and in 1976, BSE, before Laskaris's Law 330, gave a press conference and called on the government to take action against these stimuli that undermine the economy, as he said. And now BSE is doing the same, it intervenes every time and then the governments come and take such measures to curb the democratic and trade union freedoms of workers. However, the movement will, in practice, abolish whatever you do. The river can't come back. It's inflated, and it's going to drag all the obstacles you want to put in it anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Blonde, Parliamentary Representative of the Radical Left Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, an amendment has been tabled and we need to be on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Blonde will be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a comment on the speech of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, who, in my view, made a move towards the Greek Solution. It found good words to say about their seriousness, their parliamentary presence and their consistency, ignoring what the Chief of Greek Solution had already said, namely that the Government feeds the monster of provocativeness and aggression on the side of Turkey, the very extreme right krone for the hard axes of justice that must fall on the protesters and, of course, neglecting the fact that the Greek Solution is the political force today in the Greek Parliament that feeds the monster of nationalism, patriocapilia, xenophobia, racism, irrationalism, conspiracy and paralogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u196	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u197	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u198	The waxes that exterminate the coronary speaks of your Chief! Please! On the contrary, I saw very hard to attack SYRIZA, the Civic Opposition, and to tell us about a para-state, a mollusc and a rot. To finish this story. The Left in this country has never had a historical relationship either with the deep state or with the parastate. Other political forces had organic ties to these fields. The Left was their victim. And at least you are causing, when in a case of international dimensions, absolutely scandalous, which is being investigated in our country, you have not even taken political responsibility for this plausibility in the management and health of the drug last year. And I'm closing up with that. Secondly, and more importantly. We've told you a long time ago. The hard stuff has begun. The sanitary aspect of the pandemic closed in its first decent circle. We're entering a new phase in a new risk period. Mostly, however, we are faced with dramatic social consequences from this case. We are entering a course, in a lock-up, unemployment, dramatically reducing incomes and pooring society that will culminate - the feeling of all is - in the autumn. And the Prime Minister goes out and says: 'We will see if we need to take additional measures for the economy'. Or you don't have a picture of what's happening on the market, what's happening in people's daily lives, or you don't have any contact you people are and the political party, it's supposedly, the business and the market or, indeed, you don't have any reflexes to support society and the real economy at this stage, which things are beginning to take irreversible course of recession and poverty. In the tourism part, which is very critical, the equation is difficult. In other words, the equilibrium of the economically sustainable and healthly safe re-launching of tourist activity is a difficult equation. Everything will be judged not on the map plans presented by the Ministry, but in practice, on the reflexes of the system, the ESS, the EKT, the local authorities, the EKT, the self-government, the people who work and supervise hotel facilities, in the training of all these people in how to manage a local health crisis, which can occur at any time especially in tourist destinations of mass attendance. That's where he'll be judged. We have said that we will not invest in health failure and disaster, but know that obviously there are no possibilities for failure, because health and economic and social damage will be huge. And we have also proposed specific things that could suffice our islands and tourist destinations sanitaryly to mitigate possible side effects. We'd said about a wide-ranging possibility of fast diagnostic tests. You made a small effort, limited in my view. It's not a problem not to waste time until a suspected case is identified. The question of the possibility for every hospital in the island to be able to be safely intubated, maintained airway, temporary hospitalisation in a negative pressure chamber and safe crossing also has not been solved. And, of course, there has been nothing in the line of there being a permanent project to strengthen the human resources of the ERC in these areas, with recruitment and doctors and nurses and other workers, who, especially in these areas, have to be accompanied by special incentives for them. We have recently publicly presented a package of proposals which, in our view, can really enhance the necessary attraction of particularly medical resources, because there is a staff deficit in these areas over time. In our view, an attempt to reach agreement on the political system can result in a more effective package beyond these interventions that we had made in the previous period. The debate on the bill is, I think, broadly exhausted. The investment in the ITH, which is a new element in the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, is in the right direction. You had no plan to support the public health system as a whole before the pandemic, nor to support the ICUs. Everyone knows. One can see your rhetoric, Prime Minister, central executives, and even ministers in the previous period before the pandemic and then. The change of rhetoric that has been under pressure from pandemic, in our view, does not constitute a change of understanding and philosophy. That is precisely why, as Mr Poulas has already mentioned, Mr Gerapetti is going out and says that the ESS has closed its cycle and we must go to a new ESS, which will be through a synergy with the private sector, etc. So resurrect, you coward - it's the same line. Others changed rhetoric. Macron, a right-wing politician, went out into the crisis and said health is a good thing that needs to be out of the market. Is she convinced? He didn't convince. This did not protect him from social conflicts - health workers in the last few days made very hard drives in France and accepted the violence and repression of French MMs - nor the defeat of regional municipal elections. So for me the crucial dilemma is this for the next day in the public health system. We will take the lesson of pandemic and make a serious investment in public care over time, covering the needs and decent care of the people of the country for the usual morbidity and shielding a new type of threat, or going to a line that will widen the scope of partnership with private investors, with the private insurance companies that will place space on the market. This is the crucial dilemma. Public structures or partnerships with the private sector? This is the dilemma of the health plan the next day. I think that the differences there are obvious, ladies and gentlemen, of the JRC, who at every opportunity are trying to equate everything and tell us that the same political project we all serve. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: the World Health Organization, first of all, warns us that we are not done with the pandemic and that we are not even close to finishing, as the Director-General said the day before yesterday. However, the World Health Organisation has said something else very important. He has said that they are vulnerable to the virus, not only are the vulnerable groups, those with chronic serious illnesses, etc. The poor are vulnerable too. And that proves to be true. There are already studies and there are evidence that the poor, the underprivileged, are those who are most vulnerable to serious illness from COVID -19. So the danger of new inequality and health because of the pandemic is ahead of us. What we need is a public health system for universal coverage and equality in accessing all people without discrimination, but also a strong social state, which can alleviate these inequalities, support the world of work, support the victims of this upcoming crisis, through equality and redistribution policies. This is the time for a progressive political plan, against a conservative and neoliberal political plan. And one last word on the parliamentary amendment tabled by my colleague and accepted by the Minister. It is about changing criteria to get a private daily care unit, in our view it is absolutely photographic. It's really photographic, and I'm afraid he's throwing down the standard that has to be there. It is not possible in the standards of building offices to want to house service units. We are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u199	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u201	Why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u202	Because he talked about us, against us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u203	Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u204	I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u205	No, no, put things in order. In the House there are many parties and one party will speak against the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Villardo, no one has the right to emotion more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u208	It's personal, Mr. President, and I have the right to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u209	Staff? Did Mr. Blonde say anything about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u210	Of course, for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u211	For Mr. Villardo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u212	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u213	Please, you have the floor for a minute. But don't get two things involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u214	No, it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u215	In the House, one party will criticise the other. For this reason, to organize this process...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u216	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u217	Listen to me. I'll give you a minute after you hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u218	I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u219	That is why we are setting up a Rules of Procedure on how this process of criticism, mutual criticism, the reading of positions is to be done and it goes on to say. Secondly, because I have listened to it, I tell you that for many years now - and you know it - decades, starting from America, it has developed - nobody would say - the teleshopping trade. Good. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u220	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u221	Two politicians happened to attempt in Greece through this way. No problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u222	But I am not talking about this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u223	But I'm not answering you because you haven't spoken yet. I'm just explaining. So I'm saying no problem. Objectively, both must understand that this new way of business can be criticised. It's nothing terrible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u224	I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u225	Tell us in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u226	I don't know my colleague, but I'm sure he's in trouble. He can't blame me for a far-right. If that's possible! Do I look like a far right? It's terrible! It makes sense, of course, for a man to say such things from a party that has betrayed his ideology. I'm not talking about anything else. I can dismantle a lot of things about what SYRIZA has done in the four and a half years that he has ruled. The destruction that has caused the country from the reversal of the referendum, from the unconstitutionalism, from the frustration of the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u227	Now I'm stopping you, but where's the staff? Let me get this straight, Mr. Villardo. It was a political designation that Mr. Blondos did. You were placed on how you view yourself. Now what are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, you gave me a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u229	No, no, I didn't give you a minute to speak out of control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u230	I'm not talking out of control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u231	For example, you will not give us an analysis - say - of the rectangular triangle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u232	Uh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u233	I do - if you want - lighter. You'll talk about your staff. You said about your staff that poorly Mr. Blonde told you right-wing, and you're not far-right, and you look good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, let me finish. That's not all he did. He did malignant, very malicious attacks on the party's president for his work. He lied. He said the party president promotes something that cures the coronary. When did this happen? This thing is a huge lie. We, therefore, want nothing but to immediately withdraw what he said and delete from the Minutes, otherwise I am very sorry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u235	It's not, Mr. Villardo. Please. I will not give the floor or change or break the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I understand that you are in the same party, but mercy, and allow others to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u237	No, it is neither because we belong to the same party as Mr Blonde nor to protect him or need protection. But I tell you that this is Parliament's procedure and no one is more convenient than the other. I think you made your statement. I gave you a minute. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I never misuse the time given to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u239	I give the floor to Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u241	What is the reason, Mr Levane, why you want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u242	Do I have a right to secondary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u243	Is everyone gonna be a dentist?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u244	I don't know what other people will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u245	If we all do, here you go, you'll have the right to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, can I say something about the point of order? We have covered our protagonists, the parliamentary representatives and I just wanted to respond to the representative of the Communist Party and SYRIZA. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u247	And he'll answer you himself. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u248	What's going on here, Mr. President? Don't we have a right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u249	You requested the floor on staff. If you want to second-guess, which is actually gonna be trilogy, because he also spoke to the head of your party, I'll give you three more minutes. Sit down and wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u250	I'm waiting if you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u251	Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u252	First of all, I understand your position. Of course you have devoted the whole of your speech to the other bill, what comes for the protests and not today. I expressed myself for this before and for his democracy and for the liberal background and for the framework he puts in, supporting freedom of speech and freedom of protest. So I won't come back to them. I just wanted to say something very simple, which all Greek society discusses. This framework, which the Ministry of Citizen Protection brings for discussion, practically touches on some of the practices of the Communist Party and its trade union in relation to the demonstrations. In other words, we want the Greek people to be able to protest in one way or another in a way that does not cause damage and does not harm the rest of society, on the contrary, by highlighting their positions and demands. And in this context we will be having the debate tomorrow, tomorrow, when it comes to plenary, and in this context I think that you are also moving over time, and that stands out for others who use demonstrations with other objectives. As far as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman is concerned, I think that he either did not listen well or falsified a little what I said. I replied to what Mr Velopoulos said in my own way, not following neither his tone nor his style. But my answers were specific and you can see them in the Minutes, as I do every time, because that's my job. From there on, you will allow us to have the democratic spirit but also the parliamentary morale to be able to disagree with a party or with some Members in many things, when we see that they are doing something properly - that is in the Greek Solution, but it is also about you, as I have done positive positions for you personally, but also about other SYRIZA Members - to be able to say it. I do not think that you will forbid us in the Greek Parliament to appreciate something as right or wrong and in any case to have our opinion. As regards the answers you have given as a representative of your party for my position in relation to what all Greeks and Greek women have seen in the last days from the media and are being discussed everywhere, you said "so that we can be easily done with this story and quickly". You cannot finish this story, unfortunately, Mr Xanthi, easily and quickly and in my view the humble should not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u253	Not easily or quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u254	Yeah, you can fix it in the Minutes, but that's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u255	Let's finish with the talk about para-state, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u256	Yes, it's not easy to end this conversation and it's not over not because I want it, it's not over because it's not in your interest and your party. It is good to have this debate and to give answers. You said the left was a timeless victim of the para-state. I'm not going into this conversation now, and we can do it some other time. I wanted to ask you about who on the left you're talking about? Are you talking about the Left of Kammenos working with Kammenos, with Papagelopoulos? This left that adopts the deals financials, arrangements with businessmen, shops and parades? Or are you personally referring to another Left of the Sun, the Cyrcus, Constantopoulos? If you or your resignation wish to represent the second left, the ethos and values then open up this debate that I have caused you before, make your self-cleaning and help the whole political system clean up. Did you hear your former President, Mr. Konstantopoulos, the day before yesterday? Listen to him, look at him, because he made an intervention useful to our democracy, and don't yell at us, but by yelling at us and raising tons, that is to say to their political opponents, all you do is to be exposed, because you show that you do not want to take on your essential political responsibilities and yell at your own comrades, who lure you into this political brush. You are resisting this whole story, because if you are not concerned with the political survival of your party, which does not concern it, at least at the very moment, even look at your institutional role, to listen to the citizens who have sent you to the role of Officerial Response, not again for you, nor for us, but for democracy, in addition to a good clean government, which does what he thinks is right for the place, you also need a corresponding Civic Response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u257	They have asked for the floor and will speak for three minutes, unless someone else has a different opinion, Mr. Poulas, Mr. Villardos, Mr. Xanthos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u258	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Polakis, you can't talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u260	It cannot go down, since we have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u261	I'm telling you for the third time, you can't talk again. There is a special speaker, there is the parliamentary representative, even placed on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u262	It's much worse than what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u263	Probably. Two steps you're, tell him, tell him. That's the way these things are. Anybody else want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u265	Good and Mr Katsotis will take the floor for a minute. So we start the process. We all agreed that this would be the end of it. Watch out. We were going well as a point, and the services and committees decided, after we were done quickly, to put the committee on the bill we discussed, so you see people. No one provoked the speech of the parliamentary public to come in, they have come for the committee. Mr. Poula, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u266	I will be brief, Mr President. First of all, I should like to refer to the amendment. This amendment you have tabled is not in the right direction for two reasons. Firstly, the way you brought it is so degrading at the last moment for the House, and secondly, that daily care units are a serious issue, that is, it is not a simple matter that you bring it in and it says in terms of anaesthesia that will be done with a local one. These are serious things, because there are always complications in medical operations and they cannot be done, we should look at them more seriously. Now a second point which I would like to raise is the issue of subsidiary staff. There are great problems with the payment of these people. I have had two, three protests from hospitals that the last three months have not been paid and contracts have also been concluded by several subsidiary doctors and nurses. You're gonna have to see it. What are you going to do, perpetuate them? Are you going to extend the contracts? These few things I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Villard, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with the amendment, which was actually tabled too late and we have often said that this should not be the case, and that is how we sincerely have to vote against it, since we do not even have time to read it or at least to have a certain view. Now, on the subject that has already been raised and which, of course, is not because of me, the colleague addressed both the party president and the party itself, and to me personally, with what he was not supposed to say, I honestly do not know that at all. From what I understood, however, in a bill that we were discussing at the 'North' Foundation, beginning to say such things would have a problem, it is not possible to have it. It makes sense, of course, as I said before, for someone who has nothing else to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u269	What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u270	Please, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u271	Will you hold on a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u272	You may request the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u273	He's in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u274	Explain it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u275	He'll explain it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u276	I explained it. I said that while discussing a bill, you are attacking me personally, in the party with various misery, which of course you cannot substantiate with various lies that you should not have. So I guess I'm the one who's in trouble, that's what I mean. My view is that you have a problem, because as a party you have betrayed your ideology. I said nothing else, I did not say anything about the country or anything else, but you have betrayed your ideology and it makes sense to have such problems. As SYRIZA has so far shaped, it is a disgrace for the Left. You can't tell. You understand that. If I now wanted to say what you have done in the four and a half years that you have ruled Greece, I really would not have been able to do so, I would have needed hours. So I'm not going to deal with this, it's not worth it. The worst is what you have done to the Greeks who believed you and, unfortunately, you have convinced them that there is no alternative to the memorandum. There's nothing worse. You turned all the Greeks into victims, and at least you should understand that. Now, I would like to say that malignancies and personal attacks against others are not helping at all. Here we have a good climate, we believe there is a good procedure in this House, we do not have such attacks or this kind of conflict. It would be better for the climate to stay the way it is. The lie you said is that the President of Greek Solution has sold a medicine, I don't know what you said, which heals the coronary. It's never happened. Can you prove it? If you can prove it, go make a complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u277	He apologized.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u278	Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u279	Please let Mr. Villardo finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u280	What we are waiting for and want is for the gentleman to withdraw, I'm sorry, but I don't know his name, what he said, or he'll oblige us to go to justice. Such lies, unfortunately, must not be spoken in the way they were said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u281	Mr Colleagues, because you do not know his name, I have to tell you - and I say it to relax - that in a recent company survey, it was considered the most popular politician by SYRIZA. So look for a little, why don't you know his name? Mr Katsotis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Levane, you say that the JRC's practice you want with this bill to bring, to safeguard the mobilizations and all that. You know many times when you expose something, you really want to slander it, to be able to make it through all the effort you're trying to hit it. And the history of the movement is filled with savage suppression operations by the bourgeois state, mass, militant gatherings with dead and injured, and I told you before. Especially in times of racing development, your design was no more than repression. Against this movement, all the mechanisms of repression, such as the police with all its branches, justice and sometimes the Army, have been put in place. It is not too often that in mobilizations, people of these mechanisms were caught with buttons tracking the concentrations themselves. You can't ignore that. And it wasn't anyone else who did it. It's not too few times that you tried provocation in this movement by the civil state mechanisms, which you know very well, you support them and you use them at all times. Even the security union is using, so that it can interfere and enter organisations, slander them or have the information that the urban state wants, your mechanisms. So, then, this movement wants you to stand down, that's what's against you, that's what's worried about you, because, really, it's questioning this power of the bourgeoisie, it's questioning the exploitation of human beings, it wants to overthrow, so you're taking your measures so that you can support this barbaric system that supports the few and not the many. And you who are not the majority in the people are taking steps supposedly for the majority. You're not the majority, you're the minority. What are you doing? You're scanning the people and their lives the same. You are creating hell, barbarism, and you want to suppress any protest that you claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u283	Me, too. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u284	Dear colleague of the New Democracy, in calm tone, I would like to tell you that lessons from parliamentary morality, institutional responsibility and seriousness and democracy are not acceptable. It's over. In this great crisis, health and social, we have, in fact, proved our seriousness and responsibility with the attitude we have taken. We did not sit down, my dear fellow Member, to count dead and to charge them to the ministers and to the government, as you did in previous public health crises in the country, which measured the dead, the measles, the dead of the Western Nile, and said that SYRIZA has dissolved public health and must be ashamed of Tsipras, Xanthos and Paulakis. This was the toxic opposition rhetoric in the previous phase of the New Democracy. So let us accept that this is now a past and that this crisis has made you too serious. So we acted responsibly. Again, I say that immoral was never left in this place in all its appearances and all its historic path. And you have no doubt that in a collective and mutual way, we will safeguard the moral advantage that our society recognises. It may blame us for mistakes, omissions and other possible aspects of our management, but political honesty, good management of public money, for handing over budgetary surpluses to that country after another memorandum and for a great difficulty in society, no one disputes it. We will therefore defend it and, above all, we will defend society with a programme, with ideas, with values and we will, in fact, defend the world of work and those who are the major victims of this economic and social crisis that is set before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr Contozamanis has the floor, who was expecting the whole process to be completed. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law ratifys the amendment of the main donation contract of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for strengthening and upgrading health infrastructure, adding new projects and increasing the total budget that now reaches 400 million euros. Once again, the contribution of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the upgrading of the National Health System and to the provision of services to every citizen of that country, to quality and better health services, is demonstrated. Let me once again congratulate, during the pandemic, the contribution of ordinary individuals, agencies and companies to the effort to strengthen the National Health System in order to tackle the pandemic. Money, equipment, materials that catch a place and improve the health system, which has responded in the best way to date and prepared to cope with possible adverse development of the pandemic. Let me make a few comments, comments, answers to what was said both during the committee and today in plenary. What we were saying in elections as well as before the pandemic is true today. What were we talking about? That we support the public health system. And because Mr Xanthos referred to the dilemma in public health or public-private partnerships, that is not the dilemma, because public-private partnerships have nothing to do with privatisation and the public-health system. We call public health system, with public-private partnerships, in order to have a better health system, with equal access, without any extra burden, to all citizens. Also, I saw that our reference to a new National Health System is annoying the Opposition. Yes, indeed, we all recognise that the National Health System has completed its pension years, must be upgraded, must offer new services, must follow up modern trends like the rest of the planet, and that is what we will do. Mrs Agathopoulos, I was surprised at your suggestion, because you told us that your government taught you a lesson in New Democracy, how the public should work with the private sector with the cooperation you had with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation when you were government. I hope that next bills do not teach us about public-private partnerships. The committee was first told on the development of the Foundation's work at the Hospitals of Komotini and Thessaloniki. I would like to inform the House that the development of these projects is within the limits set by the convention, that we are in our time and that everything is going smoothly. As far as the work of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is concerned, for the hundreds of fifty-five new beds of intensive care unit and fourteen beds of increased care unit I want to be clear. Yeah, they're new beds in intensive care units. Areas will be built to host - I stress again - new beds, which will be added to the already operating beds in the National Health System. There was also a reference, because our plan, which I would like to clarify, was made in cooperation with the Committee on Industries, which we have defined because we have asked ourselves about it, concerns large hospitals. We all know that intensive care units in torso hospitals, in large hospitals with all the services provided, need reinforced intensive care units to deal with serious incidents. And that is what we do, we strengthen the large hospitals with new intensive beds, without overlooking the need to strengthen regional hospitals with beds in intensive care units and in increased health care units. It is part of an integrated plan for the development of an integrated intensive treatment system. What are the next steps? Because it has been said that we have been delayed in order to make the distribution of the positions of medical, nurse and other staff and the qualified doctors where we legislated in a previous draft law. You all know very well that the positions are first recommended. We did that. Now, because we have the distribution of beds across the territory, we will be able to make the distribution of the positions of medical and other staff, have the necessary appropriations and open the seats. We move forward very quickly and you will see this and soon, because the first project that starts immediately and will be completed in a short time is the project funded by the Greek Parliament with the fifty intensive care unit at the Hospital of Salvation. Some things have been said about the involvement of some private bodies in the education section and in cooperation with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. The opposition had initially ratified the Convention over the past few months as regards the trauma and the ADLS programme that defined "AEMY", the Public Health Units Company, as the managing body of the programme. So I cannot understand why this reproach exists. As far as other scientific organisations involved in the implementation of this programme are concerned, with the cooperation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, you know that the Foundation finances these actions and it makes sense to have a say on a number of things that concern the implementation of these programmes. So that is what is happening in this case. I would remind the House, because Mr Polakis was mentioned, because the trauma programme, ADLS, to which we add the child wound, is not part of a curriculum in medical schools. Mr. Paulakis, along with the Niarchas Foundation at the Ministry of Health, said that such a programme cannot be part of a university's curriculum, because it will disrupt the current curriculum. As far as recruitment is concerned, I should like to say the following. It was said to the committee the other day that a number of recruitments were delayed, mainly at 2K. Let me remind you that the 2K is through ASP, and it started on the days of the previous government in January 2019. In November 2018, of course, an amendment was made. It's all going on. The thousands of positions that are through the ADP and that were the credits from the previous government are in the ASP. The ninety-three permanent posts of medical staff are now in progress. There is planning to have more places next year than the distribution of land to be made by the Ministry of Interior. We have said many times that the Department of Health will get the lion's share in the new recruitment. And because of the pandemic we have managed and exceeded the five thousand recruits to ancillary staff, in order to strengthen the health system, while, at first, our programming was the two thousand recruitments and we have said by the Prime Minister's own mouth that nursing staff will be permanently in the health system because they need it. And we need not only the nursing staff but also other specialities and we are looking at permanent solutions, as we have also said, that we will gradually transform the positions of medical assistant staff into curator positions through a crisis procedure in order to have permanent solutions to the health system. Mr. Paulakis referred to the financing of hospitals. I believe, of course, that Mr Paulakis has been a little confused by funding with the ceilings on appropriations and the cash resources. The financing of hospitals is smooth and there is no problem with the funding of the National Health System. He also referred to previous works of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation which we have ratified in laws the previous time. I think the issue, and, above all, as regards the cycles, has been exhausted. It was exhausted then in the debate, and it is clear that there was no willingness on the part of the government to waste time and money on certain facilities that would not have the results. Mr. Paulakis accused us of serving a particular private person. Let me say that Mr Polakis' fight with this private person forced the previous government to ask for the funding of the courses in the National Health System. As far as the price of radiopharmaceuticals is concerned, of course, various projects are under way today in order to build other production units of radiopharmaceuticals. The circles we are talking about today would not be ready for the National Health System again we would have to buy radiopharmaceuticals from the private sector. Because you know very well that for Pet CT that will enter Alexandroupolis, a circle does not exist. We'd buy a radio medicine from the private. Anyway, I think all this has been discussed in the past. I would also like to point out, because some things have been said about the contract that we are bringing today with which we are adding to the helicopters, that, in essence, we did not add the terms of donation for the maintenance of helicopters that must be together with the aviation support contracts, which is why we are doing so today in the ratification of this draft law. Let me say once again that it was our will and we did so with the contribution of both the EAW and the Air Force officials, that we have two new helicopters at the disposal of the National Direct Aid Centre. They're two helicopters that'll try at night. Of course, there is a need for training of staff at the premises of the manufacturer, and with additional equipment which allows the investigation and rescue of people and not just the transport of patients. Of course, the medical equipment, while the company that builds the helicopters had cost him about one million euros, the National Emergency Center found the same equipment as 200,000 euros and we will obtain this equipment. We are in the final phase today for the acquisition and installation of this equipment. The cost of this equipment is borne by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u287	The debate is closed at the outset and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: (a) the 23.6.2020 amendment to the Donation Convention of 6.9.2018, (b) the 23.6.20 Partners Donation Conventions for Projects IX and X and (c) the 23.6.20 amendment to the Partner Donation Convention for Project VII - Violence of 6.9.2018 the Donation Convention between the Foundation "COMPLES DESCRIPTION S. NIORCHOS" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A'89) and supplementing Law 4693/20 (A'116). We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u288	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u289	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u290	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Statification: a) of 23.6.2020 amending the Individual Donation Convention of 6.9.2018, b) of the 23.6.20 Individual Donation Contracts for Projects IX and X and c) of 23.6.20 amending the Individual Donation Convention for Project VII - Violation of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “COMMUNICATIONS TAYRUS S. NIARCHOS” and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A 89) and supplementing Law 4693/20 (A116), was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u292	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-01-S1-commons.u293	With the consent of the House at 15.51 p.m. the sitting on Friday 3 July 2020 at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: Prime Minister's time and topical questions debate.
