ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 14-5-2020, PLZ's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday 14 May 2020, with regard to the resolution to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Resolution of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on a system of gas transfer from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 18 May 2020, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 669/8-5-2020 by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Energy exclusion of the Yannitsa and Veroia from the Network Development Plan for the Public Gas Distribution Network (DEN)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 664/6-5-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The work of the natural gas distribution network in Tripoli must be continued and implemented as soon as possible." 3. The Question No 677/11-5-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New Health Landfill Area (HHHITA) in the Florida area". A. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Greek Chrysos SA compensation", due to its delay in complying with the terms of the investment project provided for in the contract." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Illegal work at the port of Piraeus by COSCO - PPA (Piraeus Port Authority) and disposal of hazardous substances in the ecosystem in Saronic. " 3. The Question No 682/11-5-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Protection of the Acropolis from oversized hotels". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 4657/223/3-2020 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘The operation and extension of the Collective Alternative Management System ‘Recycling S.A.’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 4994/17-2020 by Mr Socrates Famelou, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Increases in water and sewerage tariffs from the increase in PPC tariffs". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the following in writing: "After this time, we are telling you about the debate on topical and urgent questions within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 15 May 2020 that the topical questions to be debated are: The 663/5-202020, 670/8-5-2020, 683/11-5-2020 and 690/11-5-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The 666-6-5-2020, 668/8-5-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The 673/10-5-2020, 684/11-5-2020 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Domna Maria Michailidou. The 665/6-5-2020, 680/11-5-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Labour Mr.Kissos Kontozamanis and 689/11-5-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr.Eleftherios Aygeakis." Following this, we will begin with the first under number 690/11-5-2020, a top-level question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Republic, Mr Athanasios Boura, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Eleskina Labour Residentials". Mr. Bourra, good morning! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today we'll be talking about another bridge in Artas, and I'm becoming specific. In 1997 the OEK, the Houses Agency, acquired the plots from the former historical industries in Elefsina, IRIS and ELAURGI, and eighty two-storey dwellings were built. The aim was to distribute to insured workers of the OEC. In 2009, it received seven plots - the building of the dwellings was completed and a draw took place where eighty beneficiaries were selected. In fact, I was lucky to be present at the relevant draw-out and, indeed, to be paid for a fellow citizen from Elefsina any such residence. In 2011-2009, people were paid, and did not take homes - I had tabled a question, which I am presenting again in the Minutes - and you can see it - to the then Minister of Labour, Mrs Katseli. I never got a reply. In 2011 this happened. I was asking why the tradition of these houses is delaying. In 2012, the OEC, the management body of the dwellings, is to be abolished, and the whole case is to be entrusted to the OAED. At the same time, there has been no storage throughout the transitional period, with the result that the dwellings are suffering vandalism and suffering badly. In 2015, permits are issued and thus the OAED is able to proceed with the completion of the restoration of the damages that had occurred, so that they could be delivered in full to the beneficiaries. In April 2016 OAED officials - all this time, apart from parliamentary control, I conducted a temporary hunt, as we say - assured me that the contractor would undertake to start working together so that in a short time the dwellings would be delivered. And while time passes, it comes in 2018. Nothing happened. Until that moment I was pushing. In February 2019, about a year ago, I retabled a question to the then Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsioglu, and I show you, while local press reports were bombing on this unacceptable issue every day. Of course, I still didn't get an answer. I'm still waiting for your former colleague's replies. I come today, Minister, to sincerely convey the very serious distress of the people of these people, who are the people of the toil and have been for many years, they have taken something that was right and have not been home. Is this a situation in which area? In this difficult region called West Attica, which is called the extremely triumphed Field, which means 40% of the national wealth of the country's production. So it is imperative and I expect to present you with a series of publications all this time, with which local society, local authorities and all - I believe my colleagues from all political places - were pushing for nothing. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr President, to reply today to what is going to happen on this subject, for this 'Arta Bridge'. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Bourra. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Brutsis. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bourrai, I would like to begin with three comments on the text of the question, as you have said in your comments. Observation First: Your question comes to confirm the size of indifference, inertia, at any time, and the incredible bureaucracy that is condensed with the example you mention on the question of Elefsina's residences in the state or state in relation to very serious issues, which often do not take the place they deserve to implement. The second point concerns the question you raised about the constant questions you have put. Here, Mr Bourrai, I must tell you that the parliamentary consistency is also confirmed. We're not all the same, Mr. Burras. I am sorry to see you hearing your speech that you have tabled so many questions and you have not answered them. This is not allowed in the parliamentary procedure. You have seen a different attitude and behaviour on the part of this government and on a personal level I have never been absent from the House. I'm having an emergency question storm. They are both difficult and easy, because nothing can be said to be easy to manage. However, I am here at the seat of this House to reply as I must also under the Rules of Procedure, but also on the basis of my duty, representing the government as Minister, to be here and to answer the questions raised by Members. And the third point concerns the text of your question, which I think is very important. It is important that the paragraph you say, which also impressed me, I can tell you: "The beneficiaries of the work dwellings, people who are economically weak, see so many years to be so close, and so far their dream of having their own home". Mr. Bourra, your question is condensed here. The answer that will come out of what I'm about to say is that, yes, now the dream has to come true. And I want to start my answer with what I have taken from the service, but also the actions that have been taken in 2012-2014 where I was Minister and then there was activity on this issue, but now also where we are, to transfer it to the inhabitants of Elefsina and the world that you mention to the institutional representatives that you say they are interested in. Indeed, it is a question that needs to be resolved. Already, as you mentioned, eleven years have passed since the completion of the construction of the dwellings in 2009, as you rightly say, which cost 11 million euros and still have not been delivered to their beneficiaries. The causes are many well-known and have their starting point back in 2009 when the connection projects with the public utility networks and the sewer network had to follow. After the abolition of the 6th of 2012 - it was the country's fiscal adjustment period - the GDP has been abolished, it has not been reconstituted - or it will not be reconstituted - so that every process can be frozen. Relaunching the procedures starts in 2013, I remember it as Minister, because then we had discussed and interested you from that time forward and we actually started it. However, the new building permits for the plots were issued only in February 2015. In any case, the Ministry of Labour is in close cooperation with the OAED, because it now has the full responsibility and we will try with responsibility, seriousness and speed up our pace of bringing a solution to this chronic issue. As regards the core of your question and in particular the two settlements located on the beach of Elefsina, which the former OEK started the actions of the eighty-working dwellings in 2008 under the name "ELELESSINA 4 and 5", things are as follows: According to OAED data and as I told you because of technical and economic problems, the project was not completed according to its initial programming. At the same time, the existing buildings have been stolen, as you say and confirm, vandalism, total abandonment and, of course, disruption of contractors. I would therefore like to inform you in detail where we are, where we are, where we are now and the timetable for the completion of the project has been.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Here, Mr. Bourra, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, indeed, as I have said, you have done so too. Things are confirmed. That is the way it is, and indeed there was empty space. To limit time, I did not mention that the transition from the OAED to the OAED had a gap, where after that gap, I did indeed have contacts with you who were Minister and I was Secretary General in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and we had contacts to move forward with matters and organisational issues. Since 2015, however, which, as you said, all the relevant supplementary building permits have been ready - to explain to us - to restore the damage, nothing has happened since. I told you, too, in my prototype, I repeated questions, pressured every day by telephone and the relevant Ministry personally. But to their ears, don't listen. Now the point is: I have not come today to criticise, I have come to convey the agony of these very chosen people, who have - and they have - been taken as a right - home, home have not. And as I wrote it very nicely in my written initial placement you have in your hands, indeed, people see from far and every day - you know what? - They're disappointed. If you come by, you'll see that every day they're deserted. I, Minister, want specific answers today, and I must say this to you, because the new mayor of Elefsina, who took over a few months ago, Mr Argyris Economou, had contact with you, but he also had contact with OAED on several occasions, has also made a programme commitment in order to proceed. And while these are a few months ago, until now, Minister, I am sorry to say that nothing has happened. I, in its good sense, have demanded - not in the bad sense - that I have been a Member for twenty years in the region, which I have known and served conscientiously for all these years. I want to carry this agony, I want to convey the anguish of the mayor and the city council. I want to convey the agony of these people who are waiting to enter their home. And today I would like to see specific things done, and then the other one will be done. And on these issues, I will be after you again in the good sense of the term - I will be watching them closely, because very soon this 'Arta Bridge' must not be called the 'Bridge of Eleusina', to become a reality. I expect you to answer specific questions, because at the moment we are talking about these people, and many more are watching us, we are told that our words will remain and remain to be checked, so that we can return these eighty residences to those who have actually worked with the labor of life, have fought in this very important area of the Triasian Field of Elefsina and have waited for the performance of this toil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Bourrai, you are quite right, too, in the anguish you have put in your question and in the pretext that you have also raised it, because it is unacceptable for eleven whole years that a world has been tortured, spent resources, and that the state does not complete a project that will go to eighty people at the end of the process, eighty-sixteen. They will be eighty families who will be housed and are a project that has started and we have spent a lot of money as a Greek state. So I have to tell you that as a response to my dentistry, I will record you and tell you that yes, with Mr Economou, I have met Mayor Elefsinas, who has shown his unreasonable interest, as you said in your speech. Three contracts are currently under way since completion of these projects. The two contractors relate to the restoration of vandalism - the abandonment you described - which the buildings suffered in the settlements in the previous years and known what has happened all this time. In line with the programming of the OAED and the timetable you have requested, it is therefore planned to complete the restoration work on 6 and 21 July 2020, respectively, that is to say, 'constitutions 5 and 4'. I repeat the dates, 6 and 21 July 2020. You know, Mr Bourras, because I am now talking about a specific time series of events, representing the Ministry of Labour, I know the subject. The mandate is to complete, speed up the procedures. Today the services answer me with specific dates. I believe that and I hope that this will be confirmed by the development of time and by the implementation, as I tell you today, because sometimes as Minister you may say something about the timetable set by your services and at the end of disprovement. I'll keep an eye on it. Secondly, as far as the third contractor started in 2016 - this was launched in 2016 - and the construction of the infrastructure projects in both settlements, namely the connection to the water supply networks, the drainage of waste and rainwater, electricity, natural gas, etc., as well as the construction of the surrounding area of the settlements - this is the third contractor - the works of this contractor have been suspended since 9 December 2019, unfortunately, due to problems of a legal nature. We were blocked in December 2019 lawsuits and legal issues and stopped the contraction while in progress. We are, however, in constant consultation with the OAED, making great efforts to resolve the problem that has arisen and to complete the work as soon as possible. I want you to pass on to the world you represent, Mr Bourres, the undivided interest of the state and the Ministry of Labour to the question, which you have raised for the completion of the project, for the concession of the eighty houses that the Greek people have spent money on eighty-help families and at last this "bridge of Arta", as you described - and I will agree with you - to complete, build and be proud that an important project that has begun, eleven years, has finally been attributed to the beneficiaries in an area that needs these dwellings, to families who need these residences, by showing our sensitivity and our interest and that the state at the end, even with delays and inaction, can do what it needs for its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. I would like to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor to authorise criminal prosecution against MPs. We move to the fifth, with number 663/5-2020, a top-level question from the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Retirement curriculum for retired people with a rural lot'. Mrs. Sacorafa, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u10	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Minister, it is true that you have never denied your physical presence in parliamentary control, and that we can only add to your positive results. As regards my question today, under the provision of Article 27 of Insurance Law No 4670/2020, all pensioners who have agricultural income have to pay insurance contributions from 1 March 2021, at least EUR 121 per month, i.e. EUR 1,452 per year. This provision on pensions and social security contributions concerns non-farmers who hold agricultural land. It is undeniable, Minister, that our country's economy needs the greatest growth in the primary sector, in the production sector. Such arrangements, however, act as an incentive for the expansion of the production base and production dynamics. This regulation will, therefore, certainly have the effect of excluding pensioners holding a rural lot from the production activity, beyond that it is likely to lead to a hidden activity and incomes. In this case, we will have as an additional consequence and a corresponding loss of public revenue, because this arrangement creates an obligation to pay contributions to all retired persons who have an additional agricultural income and even regardless of the amount of it. We therefore believe, Minister, that there is a need to amend the provision so that it is possible to cultivate and maintain the small parental property by pensioners. I therefore ask you: Is there any chance of reviewing the matter and amending Article 27 of Law No4670/2020, so that it is possible to cultivate and maintain parental property by pensioners? Do you at least consider introducing an income limit below which there is no obligation to pay insurance contributions, such as the EUR 10 000 provided for in the same article, applicable to pension cuts? I would like to tell you that in the last few days there has been a leak and reports that you have been moving in this direction. Personally, I would be delighted if you would confirm that. Because I am certain, precisely because you are well aware of this, that it is already a one-way road to review the issue and to amend the provision in question. I would ask you to give me a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutz. Here, Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u12	I would like to address Mrs Sakova with her thanks for her initial position, as regards my parliamentary presence in the current questions by Members. I also pay tribute to her that the question you are asking, Mrs Sakova, is also topical and very correct and today I am pleased to confirm, on the basis of your question, that the problem which you are asking me through the parliamentary procedure confirms this as well. It is a problem, but I am pleased to tell you that a definitive solution will be given and I will announce it in the procedure of your own question here in Parliament. I would therefore like to begin, because you are giving me the opportunity to discuss a few more broadly, the questions of farmers and their insurance. Because it seemed to me that pensions are being cut off somewhere and that does not correspond to the reality, Mr President, to describe the landscape a little - because the rural world is also listening to us and the agricultural world, which is certainly interested in Mrs Sakova's question - for some things that need to be restored and made more familiar. You know very well that three to four months ago from this Chamber passed the great insurance reform, No 4670/20. In February Greece acquired a new insurance environment, which changes structurally many things from what we knew in the past. The new e-EVA was created. Greece acquired the largest public social security institution. Under the new e-ECA, all remaining assets and ancillary and single assets were consolidated. You have heard from me from time to time talk about the new eFCA, which will solve daily problems of the citizen, confront distortions, pathogens of decades, solve sufferings of citizens, workers who are in the process of receiving pensions or people - workers who have completed their working life. So we are ready in the middle towards the end of June to hand over the digital pension to the Greeks after decades of many years. It's a dream that comes true. It will become a reality, it has started piloting, and at the same time it is something that everyone had doubts about. The digital pension will be a fact at the end of June 2020. At the same time, we changed a lot of things. We restored the injustices and unconstitutionalities of SYRIZA and the Katrugalo Law. You saw just the day before that I announced that on 2 June the new supplementary pensions will be paid to two hundred and fifty thousand supplementary pension beneficiaries, on the basis of Law 4670 - which gave him my name - and, firstly, restored the unconstitutionality of the Katrugalo Law, secondly, thus showing our commitment to the judicial decisions of the Council of State and, thirdly, implementing the insurance reform. Other important steps are being taken, such as the payment of subsidiary retroactives, which we must do on the basis of the decision of the Council of State. In the next period, the new main pension, which enters into another logic and another basis of recompense for all those who have been working for over thirty years, will come to an end. Here I would point out something I have said in my speech in the insurance reform, that some people today may expect an increase in their pensions for thirty years, those who are now retiring, but that concerns the new generations, the new workers, who are finally mobilizing to remain at work and the insurance system to be fair. Because the more you've been, the higher you get, the higher you get, as we changed the replacement rates. Finally, retrospectives from 1-10-2019 will also be attributed to the beneficiaries of this new main pension. So insurance reform is under way, and it is over. What I said in 2020 will be completed. At the same time we have also made another change, a change which was particularly important and relates to the question of Mrs Sakorafa, which I shall answer. Mrs Sacorafa, I'm sorry I'm not answering you now, but there's a solution to the problem, and I'm going to say it in my denture. It is the question of pensioners' pensioners. So far you know that the Katrugalu - SYRIZA has punished pensioners. He cut them 60% of their pension if they were working. We, with insurance reform, have made a major structural change. We reversed things. We have recognised that the pensioner is an active part of our society and should not be punished if he is in the production process. That's why we're giving him 70% of his pension if he gets into the production process. But I'm going to point something out here. If a retired person is arrested, after changing the law, working and not declared, he has severely fines, because there is no longer an incentive for any pensioner to work and hide his income when we give him 70% of his pension. I close, Mrs Sacorafa - and I will respond positively to your very successful question - by saying that for farmers we have specifically released this cut. They'll get 100% of their pension. However, they are farmers who are professional farmers and retired farmers - there is no cut in them - regardless of whether they are working the next day to retire and are in the production process, livestock, fisheries or their field. We predict, because we recognise the importance of the primary sector. There's no cut-off there. Now, you come to ask me the question of the heterogeneous pensioners who work in the fields after retirement. Indeed, here there was a gap in the insurance reform, which we will immediately resolve on legislative initiative and in the time that I will describe to you in my dentistry, in response to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u14	First of all I would like to thank you, Minister, for all the position you have taken on the insurance policy, in general for the farmers, but also for the heterogeneous pensioners in terms of agricultural income. I would like you to tell me - and I would be very pleased to hear - about the question of insurance contributions which they have to pay since they have had a second income, which comes from an activity which may be too small and which adds them to income, anyway, so that they can live in greater comfort. You know that it is a matter of a very large number of pensioners, who hold very small, mainly agricultural property and are basically hereditary. For the vast majority, therefore, of these pensioners who cultivate their generally small lot, agricultural income comes to complement, as I have said before, their normal income and in many cases helps them live much better. To take into account this, Minister - and it is very important - that this small rural lot has a particular personal emotional value, because it is a paternity land, it is a part of their memory, it is from their parents, from their grandparents, that is to say, small fields that use them to fill the income or if you want to do something extra in their lives. I would not like to mention to you what one can get, and how much one pays through an insurance contribution, which you have at the moment legislated, but which I think you will really change. I would say to you one example, let me say: A pensioner who has a small fortune with olives and produces his year's oil for him and for his children, has about 200 kilos of oil, and if we calculate it to EUR 2.5 kilos and receives a EUR 800 performance, he has a total benefit of EUR 1,300 and has to pay more, as he will pay for the insurance contribution of EUR 1,452. What's left of him? He doesn't have anything left at all. That is what I want you to fix, Minister, and I would really like to avoid using all the time, because I think that now, here today, you will give a positive answer to this, so that I too have the satisfaction of asking the Minister, who really has found a way of changing something in this process and saying something that I consider to be very important, that, despite the fact that we have political differences - I mean, at the level of ideology - we will also give a positive signal to society that we have open ears, we hear them and we give a solution to their problems, which are very important and which can be solved very easily. So please, today, here, now, if you can commit yourself to this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes to answer Mrs. Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u16	Mrs Sakorafa, once again thank you very much for the noble way in which you have tabled your question, but at the same time also for the importance of your question and today we are here in the parliamentary process to prove that the House, regardless of parties, listens to it, understands the reality of society and where it can find common roads, is here to solve problems. Because - I will repeat this once again - no one claims the perfect. Anyone who fights and fights will of course also have failures, but we are here to correct them and not to remain selfishly in a position that is wrong, but to move together all together. So I must say to you again, to conclude in my dentistry the core of your question and to give an answer to the timetable that you have set me, that when we were building the insurance reform 4670/2020, in February, which was voted was at its heart and the primary sector in particular. And if you see and monitor the data for the primary sector, how you dealt with the insurance sector in the primary sector, it will in practice prove that this government recognizes the importance of the primary sector for the development of the country and how structurally the primary sector is structured, as you quite rightly said, because of the low lot we have and that we must protect the income of some who draw from their olives, their meat, and this world must remain close to the earth and that is what we are pursuing with all our actions. I will keep the answer to the end, because I will haunt the process a few things that have been done for farmers in insurance. Firstly, Mr President, I have said so before and I will repeat it. The Katorugalo - SYRIZA law cut 60% of the retired people who worked. Today this has been reversed. We honor pensioners. We recognize them as a valuable part of social activity. So they can work in an uninterrupted way, with 70% of their pension coming back to them. I just said 'caution, everyone must be stated'. Secondly, farmers, mostly farmers who become retired, have no cutbacks. They get 100% of their pension. Thirdly, under the SYRIZA-Katrugalu law, there was the cut that had entered the limit of EUR 4,500 if a pensioner was receiving agricultural income. We, Mrs Sakorafa, as you know, brought them up to 10,000 euros. In other words, we are allowing someone who is not a retired farmer, but who is retired from another profession, to go back to work, that is to say, dealing with their fields and up to EUR 10 000 annual income, not making it any cut in his pension. Fourthly, we have reserved for farmers a very good and special treatment with regard to insurance contributions. In relation to self-employed and self-employed professionals there was a distinct level, very low, favourable, recognizing that farmers cannot be in the same category as other free professionals and self-employed people. Fifthly, in the reform I mentioned just now, in the digital pension at the end of June 2020, 40% of new pensions will be digital. It will be two major categories: one is the cause of death, and the other is the farmers. All farmers, Mr President, new pensioners, will apply to ATLANTA and will automatically receive their pension, not in days, not in years or weeks, but in a few seconds. We have therefore reserved for farmers this very important treatment and with digital pensions so that they will not be troubled. In addition, we are giving farmers the opportunity for the first time from 1-1-2021 through the insurance reform, if they wish, to have a supplementary pension and a single pension. If they want insurance funds to come together, to pay contributions, to get a subsidiary and a one-off one in the process. This is done for the first time and is at their own discretion. I now come to the last issue, which concerns your question. Yes, you are right, here there was an omission of the law that made insurance contributions from zero income. I must therefore tell you that, firstly, because of the specific nature of the agricultural production of the small lot, secondly, that you cannot pay EUR 1,400, but you must pay contributions, on the legislative initiative of the Government, which will come if not this week, the following week, that is, in May, we are changing the threshold and from EUR 0 to EUR 10,000. So, up to EUR 10,000, Mrs Sacorafa, no one will pay contributions, even though it is not primarily a pensioner's profession, can go to his field, get from there the benefits of his cultivation, work intactly, feed his family, make this little compost, without paying insurance contributions, only if he exceeds the limit of EUR 10,000. So your question, Mrs. Sacorafa, has caught a place. You have an answer today that I think is satisfying both of you. So this problem will be solved immediately, in May, because I recognise that, in everything that you have raised as a reflection, you are absolutely right and so we need to function, identify weaknesses in our systems and solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. I like these when we have these nice answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u18	You will allow me to thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u19	Now we will discuss the fifth under number 683/11-5-2020 in a topical question from the Member of Parliament of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Required measures to protect the labour market and the workers'. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it was good news we heard from the Minister so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u21	Very well, and Mr. Bourra...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u22	Just, for farmers, I would like to say in the context of the debate, Minister, that agricultural pensions have not yet been met since 2017. Look at it a little. The question, Mr President, is addressed to the Minister and concerns the measures necessary to protect the labour market and the workers. We all know that this year the European Commission expects an unprecedented recession in the European economy, and in 2021 there is a strong recovery - so it is said - but not enough to bring the economy back to the point at the end of 2019, that is, before the outbreak of the coronary pandemic. As far as our country is concerned, according to the estimates made in the committee's spring report, Greek GDP will be reduced this year by 9.7%, instead of 4.7% provided for in the government's basic scenario, according to the latest Stability Programme submitted in Brussels. Finally, unemployment in the working population is projected to increase from 17.3% in 2019 to 19.9% in 2020. Terrible numbers! The intensity of the problem emerges from the elements of the "ERGAN" system of March 2020, which recorded forty-two thousand more redundancies than recruitment in half a month of crisis, eight thousand unfavourable conversions of individual contracts of employment and eighty-five thousand seventy-seven-six fewer jobs than in March 2019. In view of the above, on 27 April 2020 the Change Movement submitted and made public an integrated intervention programme with job activation and employment enhancement that provides support for a million employees with a pay of 40% of the salary for six months, provided that redundancies are not made and with funding from the ‘SURE’ and the ESRB, total cost of two million euros and the guarantee of income for the insurance system. At the same time, on the basis of Article 14 of the Act of Accession of 1 May, the minimum wage is to be fixed until January 2021, and to be added to the already unfavourable provisions for the workers who exist and are aware of them. The following questions are therefore raised: Because the planned and costed proposal of the Change Movement for work aims to maintain jobs, in order not to subtract from hundreds or hundreds of thousands of unemployment posts - we will call it 'employment' - and also because, on the basis of the conclusions and balance of the March 2020 flows, we are expected to continue its growing and unfavourable trend towards tourism and foodism and because we do not think there is any justification for the consultation of the social partners in order to determine the minimum wage for 2020, we ask the Minister if he intends to accept the proposals of the Change Movement, as formulated, costly and justified. How does the government consider them and see them to do further on these proposals and on the course of the workers and the Greek economy? Also, Minister, it is a long-term delay to set minimum wages, that is, 2021, and we will see. How do you judge this and how will the government initiate this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also thank Mr Mulkiotis for returning to a question that is timely on the social issues of our country in the labour market, which has entered into this difficult environment of the financial crisis because of the pandemic. And on this, Mr Mulkiotis, we agree. We agree, in other words, that what we are experiencing today and we will experience for the next period is not something that is due to government policies. It is something that crosses the entire world community, the whole of Europe, the developed world. It's something that's unprecedented. We've never dealt with it before. But here we are as a state to stand by the world as a government and as a whole as a political system, with the proposals made by each party, to listen, to listen. If we get used to some things, we'll of course make them acceptable. You saw it just before and with Mrs. Sacorafa. We are here to solve problems and, above all, to stand up to a society which is being tested and tested unfortunately in the next few years. I would like to begin with one comment you have made in your question about outstanding pensions. You will allow me to do this because I cannot leave it unanswered. I would remind you, Mr Mulkiotis - Mr Kegeroglou, who is very well aware of the issues - that in the previous House we had repeatedly tabled questions to SYRIZA, to tell us how many outstanding pensions due to the Greek people are and in an insulting and unacceptable way SYRIZA never answered - but never - nor in written or timely questions, how much more than in the entire parliamentary group in February 2019 with fifty-five Members of the New Democracy, where I had the portfolio and asked Mrs Ahchioglu a question, which she never answered! On the contrary, we saw Mrs Ahtsoglou - and SYRIZA - crossing the channels and saying "There are no late pensions, we have solved them, we will resolve them" and set a timeframe in which she was constantly falling out. They practically fooled and deceived the Greek people. It was the hideout of SYRIZA's truth against the Greek people. As soon as we became government, I caused SYRIZA - because that's what I had to ask me - to ask me a question, to answer how many outstanding pensions are. He never did. I have only received two questions from the KINAL Parliamentary Group and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, and of course the Minister is not answering. The services are responding. That is why, when an answer comes, my dear colleague, Mr Mulkiotis, through the parliamentary procedure, it is an answer which is credible because the services are answering, the Minister is not answering. The Minister shall merely sign the answer. In reply, therefore, to the question put on August 28, 2019, the total outstanding amount left by SYRIZA a legacy to our government is a million fifty - eight thousand. They were widow's pensions, recalculations, master, subsidiary, one-off and cases. It was a million and fifty-eight thousand. It was a mess! I said then - and I repeat - that this is not solved by human resources, as much as you try, even though we have put much more people in the area of pension awarding. We increased by 40% the speed of organising pensions to the ECA. The solution is only on the digital road. Indeed, Mr Mulkiotis, we have announced that the digital pension is already in operation today. Digital pensions are not paid because they have to go through a two-month period that is now filtered and evaluated, while they are all awarded. At the end of June 2020, the normal operation and full implementation of the digital system for new pensions, which are - I said before - pensions due to death and pensions in the agricultural sector will begin. But Mr Mulkiotis has put something that has not been said to me so far in the House and I will say it today. What about the unfinished pensions? The answer is double, Mr Mulkiotis. Firstly, the human resources released from the new pensions will deal with the outstanding. So we will be very short on their time of award. But there is something more pleasurable. After the operation and full implementation of the digital ETLAS pension, we will enable all pensioners in these two major categories who are 40% of the remaining pensions, agricultural and death, to apply for a digital application - only for the application - in the ETLAS and to integrate themselves into it so that the outstandings you mentioned take from 1-1-2017 their pension as a whole, all automatically, in a few seconds. So, Mr Mulkiotis, we are also talking about outstanding pensions, and the objective is these two categories, which are 40% of the outstanding ones, to automatically get their pensions under the digital ATS system. To the question you raised, I will say to you now: first of all, on the issue of unemployment, because we discussed it here in Parliament several times in February 2020, ELSTAT - which measures unemployment - showed that unemployment had fallen to 16%, compared with February 2019, which was 18.5%. So our policies in this period of time, as far as the economy, development and labour policies are concerned, have taken place. Unemployment has fallen by two and a half units. Unfortunately, this will be interrupted. And I say 'unfortunately', because it goes beyond the possibilities of an economic policy to keep unemployment and continue to deviate it, as it was determined to fall at the end of 2020 - on the basis of the budget we submitted in 2020 here in Parliament - to 15%. This cannot be done, unfortunately. But we are here, Mr Mulkiotis, as you quite rightly say, all together with sensitivity to deal with the problem. Call 'ERGANI' into the March figures, which is now the beginning of the crisis. Be careful, we are talking about March, because in the two months of January - February 2020 the "ERGANI" showed much better data than the two-month January - February 2019, so we showed that we are on the right track. But for March when the crisis began, it did show forty thousand five hundred jobs as losses. However, if anyone sees it at second reading, it is becoming redundant until 18 March 2020, until the implementation of the measures began. This wave of redundancies was then interrupted because we prevented it from being taken by the measures we took and the legislative acts. Everywhere there was the maintenance clause. The "ERGANI" of April took a positive balance, and at the same time, Mr Mulkiotis, showed that redundancies in April 2020 were smaller than redundancies in 2019, which means that our policies have taken place, namely, labour market protection policies, workers. We had the annulment of redundancies and the'umbrella' protection throughout the labour market, with the maintenance clause for all companies, which would receive the privileges of suspensions of tax and insurance obligations. So our policies have been. They are policies that I have also mentioned in your previous question and in the KINAL, which concerns the policies for the EUR 800 that we have so far given to nine hundred and thousands of workers, 600 euros in seventy-five thousand scientists, 800 euros in six hundred thousand self-employed, homogeneous companies, inter-regulated companies, IKE, individual companies, special-purpose allowances for sixty thousand special categories, EUR 400 in eighty-six long-term unemployed, EUR 800 in two hundred-thirty-three-year-old beneficiaries of regular unemployment January, February, March and April and we are here to consider such policies in future. Of course I have seen your suggestions, Mr Mulkiotis. Many of them are satisfied with what we are doing. We can't identify each other. There is also the financial environment, which is specific and enables us to decide and take measures. We have already continued this policy for May. You see that we are again covering businesses, we continue the suspensions of contracts of employment in enterprises that have been closed up by administrative order, we are opening up the economy to businesses with sensitivity and caution, but by lifting the suspensions to 40% of the workers and protecting the others, with 60% remaining in suspension to firms that have been affected, we continue to give the 800 euros and in May, we continue to have tax and insurance suspensions and in May, and we are starting a new period in June, for which we are preparing. If I am not mistaken, and the issue of rotating employment in your question, I would like to say to you - I left the issue of minimum wages in my dentistry, but it is important for the questions raised by my colleague - that rotating and part-time work - you know very well, because you are an old, experienced, familiar topics - are the two arms of flexible forms of employment. It's nothing new. It is based on Law No. 1892/1990, which has been in place for thirty years already and cannot be said by one of the Steps or anything - well, by Steps of this House, we have heard many and declarations - that it will abolish flexible forms of employment, because the next time it is abolished, we will have hundreds of thousands of unemployed. In each developed economy, flexible forms of employment are an ingredient that is inextricably linked to every healthy economy and every healthy labour market. For thirty years there has also been rotating work and part-time work. Unfortunately, in the four-and-a-half years of SYRIZA with its policies, part-time work has become even more difficult and we are now in a situation unfortunately difficult. What we are saying - and you mentioned it too - is that the 'SURE' programme is a financial instrument which we are currently negotiating with the European Commission. It's not complete. But we as a Greek state are getting ready. The difference in this rotation of employment, where it is done, with its current status as Law 1892/1990, is that there would be a reduction in wages in that rotation, and for the first time here we would say that rotating work would be protected and income would be corresponding to the loss of the worker. This is very important. It's never happened in our country, Mr. Mulkiotis, you know that. So we come to support work for the first time consciously. It's the government's strategic choice. You will see the next time how this is reflected in our own actions and how it is reflected in the law that we will bring to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we do see that proposals that we have tabled at this critical time for the country, with responsibility and full justification, are being adopted. This is very important, because our role is indeed to offer the Greek people at this critical moment. We also have to say that it is particularly satisfying to note that the retired people employed in agricultural work and the question of insurance contributions, to which you referred a moment ago, were adopted by the government. I would like to point out, Minister, that, as you have said, there is indeed protection in relation to redundancies, but not since 1 March, and that is a deficit. It would be enough because the pandemic has probably started earlier and the redundancies had already begun earlier for the workers and were affected enough and they were unemployed, the nullity of redundancies would have been adopted by at least 1 March 2020. It would then be complete and satisfy the common feeling and these workers, who have unfortunately stayed out of this critical period and are not protected and it is unfair to protect themselves from a single date and not from the 1st of March that the pandemic has actually begun. We would also like to take this opportunity, because there has been a lot of hearing in the Chamber today, which is important, because there is a diffuse atmosphere in the press and there are still a number of things in relation to software and e-Venna I ask: has the process been started and will the e-Venezia function immediately, or has there been no software adjustment and we are in the old regime and there is a delay? There's a diffuse atmosphere in the press, issues are being created. You should clarify this today so that everyone knows how this situation works. In relation to rotating work, Minister, I will point out to you two things that are very important, in that the recent joint ministerial decision - and I am referring to the one published in the 1779/10-5-2020 in Chapter A2(6), it is stated that the provisions of Articles 9 and 10 of the 2020 legislative act can be invoked and applied in relation to the provisions of Articles 9 and 10 of a legislative act of 20 March 2020. This article 9 has been denounced and we have asked you to withdraw it. You didn't withdraw it. Now here's what's going on with this welfare you put on. In the opinion of the Change Movement there are 'grey zones' in relation to the number of workers who can join the rotation. The CSR points out that in the way it was organized a week it is part of at least 50% of the company's staff, which means that neither 45% nor 40% or 30% are part of it, but 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% are part of it. When it says 'at least 50%', it means that we go up wherever we want. Minister, this regulation - and that is why I say that it is a 'grass' case, perhaps it is something that has not been predicted or arrested by the pensioner of the OSH - opens up a 'eye' so that the poor employer can withdraw a few days before the end of the suspension or the extension of his final employee who had been suspended and thus have the right to put him in place, after recalling him in a new rotating job. That's how a situation is frozen. This is a gray point. If the layout was provided for, it would be clear and we'd be done. But it's not predictable. When KYA leaves the margin in this way to do so, it can also say that "I can put 70% into rotating work". One situation is frozen and we now have to work by rotating, half-wage, half-waged, half-waged insurance contributions and any other negative consequences. I call - I repeat and note this - the relevant provision of the Staff Regulations and, in particular, Article 2(6) of Chapter A2 of the Staff Regulations referred to in Article 9 of the Act of Legislation of 20 March 2020. There's a question about that. Besides, we think that, as things stand, we are going, Minister, with data and what I have told you, to half the wages. This is how the situation ends, unfortunately. Half a wage and half a job. We're going to a negative development. We cannot consider that to be a good thing. As much as we say that redundancies have actually stopped - we will not say no - but go to such a negative development. In fact, the specialisation of the announcements, as with the government grant programme and the related ones, seems to be reaching, Minister, half-wage, with a fee of EUR 2.66. It is a question that the government is not dealing with. He says, of course, that some measures are taken, but this is a very serious matter for workers, which is not dealt with by these measures. When we go and introduce, even indirectly - I will say something very good, unwisely - continuation and consolidation of labour rotation, major and handy problems arise in further development and we reach a complete deregulation of labour relations. So it would not be a reality to say that we have a new status of a new labour law. We do not believe that and, of course, we are completely opposed and will fight. We will give our proposals here and everything there is in order to explain why workers must not have that chance. So you said, Minister, that you cannot accept all of our proposals, but that is our specific proposal from the Change Movement for Work, as it refers to a million workers, 40% fully justified and fully costed, is the proposal for tomorrow. We are subsidising work and not unemployment, and that is the major. Finally, Minister, to conclude, in Chapter II, I say that it is not possible for the minimum wage to be introduced as from 2021. Do you know when we have this salary? You know it very well! Since 2019, SYRIZA has had to change. In the context of the procedure, how does this development take place? Website more. Besides, what do they change? Reports, opinions, opinions between Ministers and a service procedure. But when the law sets out certain conditions and sets out a process of evolution of the general data and about what is happening at European and global level, why, Minister, in the context of the online option offered not to develop now - yes, now - the minimum wage and not to go in 2021? You realize what this means to workers, beyond uncertainties, beyond a negative development in general and perhaps not the minimum. Be worse than the one that exists today, under the bottom. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. I leave you, because these are issues that concern the Greek people. These are issues and answers that the Greek people expect from the Minister, but sooner or later, please too. You have three minutes, Minister, for your dentistry and your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis opened up all the Vendalian labour issues in the seven minutes that you have given him to speak in his dentistry. I would therefore like, Mr President, on the occasion of this extensive presentation by Mr Mulkiotis on all sides of work, to return to the responsible and reliable way, as the Minister of Labour should be placed in this critical period for the country. He always has to, but we are in the middle of emergencies, with some things that I consider necessary to repeat for once in the House, in order to make it clear. No one is pleased, Mr Mulkiotis, by the development of the labour market. We'd launched her de-escalation. It seemed to degrade unemployment. And all this stops violently and sharply because of the pandemic. Do you deny that pandemic hits the labour market? Does your party believe that we could have a magical way of dealing with it to increase employment today and continue to deviate unemployment? Nowhere in the world is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u29	That is why we tabled specific proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u30	So, if we applied your proposals, Mr Mulkiotis, would employment increase and unemployment decrease? Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u31	There would be employment, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u32	Please, I'm talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u33	He didn't interrupt you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u34	Be serious and responsible in this Chamber. We have an unfavourable situation and the Greek Government comes in and says: We will be next to every worker. We will be conducting policies that we have already taken in the first time perimeter, which we have demonstrated. I told you that we stood by the worker, the labour market, so we wouldn't have a wave of redundancies. And we did it. Now we're entering the second circle. First of all, then, it is this. Let us go to the second point: the measures we are taking - I shall repeat the threefold - are urgent, necessary and temporary. What does that mean? All the measures you described with their negative dimension are measures which will only exist for a period of time, as long as there is a pandemic. To restrain the wave of redundancies so that we can get into a normality and start operating again, the economy and the labour market. Clearly: Extremely, necessary and temporary. Everything will be abolished and reverted to our country's labour law, as it existed. Thirdly, do not insist on rotating employment, Mr Mulkiotis. Turning to employment - and I have told you in my prototype, I will say it again - is nr. 1892/1990. You have worked with rotational employment as a party and you and SYRIZA and there is today in our country's labour law. It can't be phased out. It's an integral part...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u35	In consultation, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u36	And there's still consultation. That is another measure that we have taken. I told you what is the big difference in the new rotation of employment. It is that in its previous Opinion of Law 1892/1990, any consultation was rotating, the employee's income was horizontally reduced. We do not accept it as government. What you will see in the next period, namely by the end of May, is that we will legislate, Mr Mulkiotis, a new environment on the basis of the financial instrument, 'SURE'. All that you hear me say in my statements and you hear them coming out of the government to protect the loss of the workers' income you see in law. He'll be here soon. So what does this law do in rotating employment? Comparatively better than the previous one, there is also any loss of the workers' income that will come to make up for it in a percentage. We will give them from the state budget, yes, through the financing instrument called 'SURE', which we are negotiating with the European Commission at the moment and we will try to get as much money as possible to alleviate, whenever this happens, the number of workers. So, in practice, how you support workers, how you stand next to the employee, how you see problems coming up and not just an observer, but coming in forward, legislating, interfering and becoming a shield for the income of the workers. I should like to return to the measures you have taken. I said it was urgent, necessary and temporary. The positive thing, Mr Mulkiotis, in this particular procedure - and Members of this House listening to it - is that this recession which will come and will be large and has a negative print on the labour market - will come the state and state to defend, do everything they can by means of measures, workers - has a specific timetable for closing down. That is, based on our forecasts, this crisis, because it is not a crisis that comes because of an economic policy, but it is a crisis due to the pandemic, in 2021 there will be a complete overthrow of adverse developments in the labour market. We believe that in 2021 we will restore all this damage that the labour market will suffer, return to normal levels and continue to degrade unemployment again, as we left it in February 2020, i.e. 16%. On the issue of minimum wages, Mr Mulkiotis, you know that this law is Law 4172/2013. As Minister, I brought him to Parliament, he was voted under the strongest reactions at the time of the Opposition, which was SYRIZA. In our specific legislative intervention in 2013, SYRIZA left Parliament and went to the square, protesting. He had called for all trade unions and said that "the first day that I will become a government, I will abolish by a law and an article the way in which the minimum wage for Brutsi is shaped." What's the minimum wage doing? The minimum wage is doing something innovative and new. For the first time in the history of calculating the minimum wage comes to take account of the strength of our economy, Mr Mulkiotis. That's the law's innovation. It does not arbitrarily come only through the consultation of the social partners, which continues to exist, but comes and appreciates the real facts, the possibility and the budgetary tolerances that the economy has to give to an increase in wages. Therefore, the increase in wages now, on the basis of this law, comes to be determined on the basis of the financial resilience of the economy, so that it does not harm. Because if we give an over-increase, it will eventually harm and undermine workers through redundancies. If we give a smaller increase, it will again undermine the very entrepreneurship, because it will reduce labour productivity. So for the first time, the consultation process is in place with specific scientific methodology for our most independent economic operators, such as the Bank of Greece, ELSTAT, IOBE, KEPE, the social partners with the scientific organisations, who can now show us exactly what the strength of the economy is and what the minimum wage should be. SYRIZA lost the opportunity on January 1, 2017, as planned, to increase the minimum wage. He froze it unnecessarily, and in 2017 and 2018, and used the mechanism for party reasons, as he came in 2019 and violently gave an increase of 11% in the minimum wage that had to lay it down in a mild way so that this violent increase in the wage costs of businesses did not come. In any case, you know very well that we have started now - we - in February 2013 the committee provided by No 4172 of 2013 for the formation of the minimum wage with the President of the OMD and the other two members. We organised this committee and the procedure started. That's the truth. Unfortunately, Mr Mulkiotis, developments go beyond us. New data do not allow objective measurements to be made and have reliable data on how far - and if it can - the minimum wage can be increased in 2020. Is that what we did? And that's a kind of carefulness of workers' incomes, with what that means and you understand. We have shifted - instead of appraising the recession in workers' incomes - at a later stage in implementing the minimum wage so that this process can continue in the same way, but once we have overcome the recession. The protection of workers was our decision, the protection of workers' wages, the displacement of the time of implementation of Law 4172/2013, the mechanism and not something against them. I would therefore like to send the message - and to those who are listening to us - that the switching to the timetable for the application of the minimum wage and its evaluation was only because we were in this pandemic hurricane. The data can no longer be evaluated with the same excellence as it would be in a normal time process. The committee will assess them as soon as we get out of the recession, as soon as we get out of this pandemic, and we will be back to normal. Nothing's gone. Everything's here. The lost ground will be won in favour of the unemployed, in favour of the weak groups in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. We are now going to the third time question under number 670/8-5-2020 in the second cycle of the Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "A five-and-a-half-thousand-dollar programme of the OAED." Mrs. Apajidis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the pan-Hellenic first-class union called the "Special Graduate Programme Association in the Greater Public Sector" states that these graduates of the OAED five-and-a-half-thousand graduates are following your public interventions. It has been stressed that at this difficult time the State, in particular through the Ministry of Labour, will contribute in practice to the smooth functioning of its structures, both in terms of public services and services in the wider public sector, and also in dealing with unemployment in general. It is also recalled that a public commitment has been made to contracts concluded with the Ministry of Labour on 21 March 2020 and on 6 April 2020, where reference has been made to a resettlement plan for those contracts that have already expired. It is worth pointing out here that graduates belonging to the programme of the five and a half thousands of OAED graduates cover neural positions in the public sector and in the wider public sector, which serve well-established and lasting needs, especially in the health sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, given that the five and a half thousand OAED graduates programme is uniform and consists of qualified graduates whose contracts have already expired or who ends this period of time, Minister, what do you intend to do to make use of the graduates of this programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too, for the time. Ma'am, with a cape. The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal. And I think you can cover it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, thank you very much. I shall try to be as brief as possible in that the question raised by Mrs Apatzidis has been raised on several occasions in the past. Answers have been given on this issue. Mrs Apatzides, with absolute respect, respect for these five-and-a-half thousand children who were finally three thousand six hundred, because so many were hired to work in the public sector through the OAED programme, I would like to say a few things that no one can overcome because they are undeniable truth and a reality, because in this Chamber we must look at and tell the truth and things as they are. I am putting a headline, far from small-party purposes, of anyone who takes advantage of people who are looking for and striving to find a job, away - and I say it to every wing of this House - because it is easy to sow the sense of patronage and good and to cultivate expectations of racing, that some can be recruited to the public through this road. It can't be done under any circumstances and I'm explaining myself. If someone unravels the story in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the respective programme, which we are discussing five and a half thousand, who were three thousand six hundred, you will see that there have been dozens of such projects with graduates. I ask a rhetorical question: didn't they have a soul? Did they have a soul to continue working with an extension of their work? What were children of a lower God, Mr. President? Tens of thousands of children graduated in the past have worked with OAS programs in public. And they followed the same procedure, we have a specific framework of a contract of employment, such as that of SYRIZA, 12 months, completed, and then come back to the production process through the experience and skills they have acquired and participate in other competitions. That's the reality. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So, what do you propose today? Do we have to perpetuate the three thousand six hundred in public where their contract has expired or has it been twelve months? Give an answer to the hundreds of thousands of past. They don't care about you? Aren't you interested? Or answer the new kids, the other graduates who had no privilege of being in the three thousand six hundred. Hundreds of thousands of graduates are on the other side, and today they hear you say: 'Give priority to permanently enter the public service three thousand six hundred.' On what criterion? We have agreed in this Chamber, it is a conquest of our democracy that you cannot become permanent out of the APA process in public. It's over and over! That is the undeniable truth. The OAU's programmes shall have a timetable for implementing the principle, medium and end when this timetable of the Convention is completed. Like the 12-month timetable, which had done so, SYRIZA and then cut with crocodile tears, defender for party, for micro-political reasons, for workers. Let him do so, let him make them permanent, whether he could or should have done a two-year contract, if he could again. Why didn't he do it and he comes today and hides behind the justified anxiety of the children looking for work and tells them "we will require the government to make you permanent"? Where did we get these, colleague? How can these be done? We're a favoured state. We have rules, we have frameworks, we're right. A course was followed in this program of five - and - a - half - thousand program that was finally three thousand six hundred. We respect them, we love them, and we are with them. They'll open other programs. I'll tell you in my dentistry what we're gonna do about these kids and, more generally, about other graduated children. But we have to say things by their name, not to mock ears. We must be beneficial and useful and not pleasant and not mock people with lies and with small-party purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Apajidis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we'll agree on something that SYRIZA has a great responsibility on this. However, at the moment there is no satisfactory proposal. We have specific young scientists and if they are not given a solution to their issue, they will be forced to unravel, you know that very well. Do you really want them to leave Greece, to lose this potential of well-trained scientists, which is our future? It is a generation that has all scientific and professional skills, but suffers from continuous work precariousness. I too, because I belong to this generation, I know very well why I'm talking. For this generation, we must fight to stay in Greece. We know very well and Article 21 of the AAP law. We are also aware that on 22 November 2018 a public invitation was received by these young scientists on the basis of criteria approved by the AACC itself and that this public invitation - a notice was also published on the AACC website. I'm also giving you the public invitation to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Apatzidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But here, with my question today, Mr Brutsi, I ask you directly and clearly: in this difficult situation, in this enormous humanitarian crisis we are experiencing today, can you give a realistic solution to these young scientists, of course, taking account of the budgetary relaxation that exists, but also the enormous need for health personnel in the wider public sector and new technologies? Mr. Brutsi, I should also like to point out that we are talking about young scientists, young people. It's the most important thing we have in our country, because they're our hope. Having experience, they have now shown their will to help through the letter they sent. They made it clear that they want to put themselves in the battle against the coronary, endangering even their own lives, but once again you deceived them. Here, in the letters of the Association of Experts, in the short term, they call for the immediate renewal of their contracts. But we, as a PARTA25, are calling for a long-term and special moleculosis contest for these people, a lasting and effective solution. These positions must be organic and permanent. We therefore propose that the formal procedure should be followed by an IACC to serve them. These scientists have a significant pre-service, so this pre-service must give these scientists a much greater moleculosis to enable them to continue to exploit themselves in their positions. And young scientists should not be lost for Greece, in the opinion of Mera25 and mine, you should not expel them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I will repeat that, for these scientists, whom you are 'cut off', Mr President, because I consider your stance to be hypocritical, we have said on several occasions as government that we do not only denounce them, but we honour them, respect them and recognize - and I personally acknowledge - how important they have had the time they have worked with this programme in the productive process of public bodies. But you are asking the question today, addressing the Minister of Labour, for three thousand six hundred workers in particular. I asked you another question in my protology. You don't care about the hundreds of thousands of other graduates? Do you have a proposal for them? Note what you say: Appoint directly to the public three thousand six hundred. Isn't that a discrepancy? In what process? Have we not agreed in our country that there is only the APA, and that's all we're going to do? Have we not agreed in our country that OAS programmes are working to give skills to the beneficiaries, so that then in the production process of the private sector they will get stronger and have a privileged environment better, with skills they will have acquired? So what are you telling me today? To solve the problem of scientists leaving, do you appoint three thousand six hundred in public? What are you practically doing? It's a hypocritical attitude. You want to mock these people, who really fight for the next day, to tell them "I care about you and your appointment in public". So it's the return to Mavroyaluro era. I would, therefore, recommend to your party and to those colleagues who have decided to take this road, to avoid it. He's slippery. We paid him dearly all the previous years. We have felt on our side what demagogy would mean, what populism and what "blackyalulousism" mean, that is to try to catch the agony of some people and put them in a public position to be good and to guard their vote. That's not how problems are solved, because even though we theoretically put the three thousand six hundred in a magical, illegal way - in public, there would be fifty thousand graduates, who would at the same time say "we are here? Why didn't you give us the opportunity, Mr. Brutsi, to compete on equal terms through the AACC - which we have done now in a constitutional property in our country - and to fight to get that position?' Who can deprive that? Who are we to make a specific choice, arbitrary, to show that we're good? Because there's a union that wants to push politically? Oh, no. Our country has acquired rules. We paid the price of populism very expensively in the past. We are going forward and that is why I would like to tell you what will happen in the next period. We were talking about three thousand six hundred scientists. Firstly, we took SYRIZA's failed programme - it failed in the sense of the results - for unemployed graduates of up to thirty-nine, in smart-skilled sectors, which had only ninety-seven seats over 15 months, of the six thousand. We have improved it in cooperation with Mr Protossalot of the OAED. We widened from four to nine smart-skilled sectors and increased the grant rate from 50% to 60% of the single wage and non-wage costs. With stronger incentives and more simple conditions, we have made it more attractive to hear that, ladies and gentlemen, the six thousand unemployed graduates, with new incentives, can effectively, in fact, enter the labour market, but in the private sector. Secondly, we are preparing a second programme, again for the undergraduate unemployed, co-financed work programme of six thousand more - six thousand - twenty-two to twenty-nine years old, of high qualifications, which will have the potential to gain valuable professional experience in the skills for which they have specialized knowledge and skills in the private sector - again in the private sector - so that they can gain valuable experience. This overall programme costs EUR 55 million. So, Mrs Mavroyalou, how can we support the young scientists in our country, not arbitrary micro-group approaches to the Mavroyalou era, which we have given them a position in the public sector to embrace and take their vote, but with such policies, which we open the way for them and enable them to find a permanent job with incentives in the private sector, where the real development of the country is taking place and where we really need these young scientists for our country, and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Next is the third with number 673/10-5-2020 appropriate question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "A programme of domestic tourism for all 2020 with three million beneficiaries and fifteen million nights that create seven million days". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u46	Who's gonna answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u47	The State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u48	Why? It's not her jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u49	You will be answered by Mrs. Domna - Maria Michalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u50	We don't underestimate Mrs. Michaelidou. It is a wider responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, it relates to the finances which the Minister alone is responsible for. So there is no answer through a third party when the Minister is present. If the Minister had a coma, of course, I would have discussed with the Minister of State, but please call on the Minister to come and answer, because it is his responsibility, unless he wants to leave. If he hadn't come at all today, the State Secretary would have repaid him. He can't answer on a case-by-case basis when he can be here. It's a matter you need to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u51	Yes, we will talk to Mr. Brutsi, but I will tell you that he has informed him that he has a meeting. She was in a hurry to leave, and on the basis of a programme, Mrs Michailidou would answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u52	Answer me and Mr. Pool Mrs. Michailidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u53	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u54	Because he was in a hurry to leave for the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u56	Please, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u57	Mr Colleagues, I think you know very well that the Minister takes parliamentary control very seriously. He's never missed a question. Today, unfortunately, it was now, at 10 a.m. - and it was too late - a meeting that could not go because it was really very important - you may see it today in the media - so he asked me to convey his apologies. I'm a State Secretary to the same Ministry. It's not my immediate responsibility. You and the President will decide, of course, how you want this question to be answered. However, unfortunately, the Minister could not stay and you know very well - I stress it - how seriously he takes parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Kegeroglu, will you ask the question? Because I think you were up-to-date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I was not personally informed, but in any case it is not there. The question is whether we are paying attention to the proposals, to the positions expressed by the opposition and which help to tackle the problem. In any case, the answer has already been given. He's not in charge of the State Secretary, so he can't answer us. Mr President, the issue that has to do with making use of the European Union's resources and the country's capabilities does not want to come after a long time, as Mr Brutsi said before, in order to cover the cost of the memorial. We want to take immediate advantage of the opportunities offered by the European Union to us by the country, so that a memorial may not be required. And, unfortunately, this notion of Mr Brutsis and the government seems to be more wide-ranging because the country was indeed forced to take restrictive measures in order to deal with the pandemic. At the same time, however, at the end of the day, the processing of the countermeasures, i.e. all those initiatives which will lead to the relaunch of the economy, the re-entry of entrepreneurship and, of course, the activation of jobs, should have started. That does not seem to exist, it continues the restrictive measures. The Change Movement started this process immediately and with the experience from the previous period, from dealing with the previous crisis, but also seeing that if there is no immediate response in order to trigger the economy, the recession will go very high, with direct consequences for work and at huge social costs. Tourism is a key pillar of the economy, it is linked to this half the population. More activities from the agri-food sector to the services, even until property management are now related to tourism. Entrepreneurial activity has focused on this key pillar of the country. So we need to see how we support this sector again in order to be able to breathe this difficult period. We will certainly not have the results of previous years, but we will not have a necrosis. The issue of tourism, of course, also depends on global developments and decisions at European level, and the first decisions taken in the past few days by Europe were positive. That's not enough. But at national level too, we need to act. That is why both the Change Movement as a party body and the Progressive Democratic Cooperation of Economics, which we support, have worked out specific positions that have to do with relaunching tourism. Today, with the question, of course, following on from what Mr Mulkiotis has said, which concerns the support of a million workers with 40% of the wage costs for six months with the use of the 'SURE' and the ECB, this proposal - and we want it to be debated today - for a broad programme of domestic tourism. Classic social tourism programmes either of the OAED or of the Rural House cannot respond to the juncture, because the juncture is extraordinary. We believe that a broad programme of inland tourism can create the critical mass of activities that will support tourism so that it can then be relaunched by any European countries to deliver both the country and the workers and the community as a whole. What do we propose in particular? We are proposing for three million beneficiaries of 15 million stays. They create seven million days for workers in tourism, and all this is a budget of 750 million, which can be integrated and what is planned for the individual small social tourism programmes, so that these 750 million can act as an impediment and do not give much more later as unemployment benefits or as survival benefits. The 750 million in a wide-ranging domestic tourism programme may evacuate and create the conditions for much less recession than expected and we must not wait for our hands crossed. The question is, therefore, whether the government has drawn up such a plan of wide-ranging domestic tourism of three million beneficiaries, we propose that we, or whether it is sufficient for small social tourism projects that do not meet the conditions this year. Has it finally worked out or will it finally hear our proposals, so that we can all move on to this beneficial country and society policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, will answer. Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, my Minister said so before: the measures we have taken to ensure the labour market in these days and the period of coronary and pandemic are on three main axes, they are emergency measures, necessary measures and temporary measures. So we took these measures and we continue and we take measures like this, to contain the wave of redundancies and return to normality, with full respect for labour legislation. On the issue of dealing with the coronary in general, our government has moved from the first moment to speed, determination, seriousness and great responsibility. Our aim at the outset was to prevent the effects of pandemic and to protect workers, businesses, the labour market and, of course, the vulnerable groups. As you know, the pandemic is gradually deviating from the response measures taken and the response - and a very great thank you from the entire government - of the inhabitants to them. Today we are in a position to conclude that the actions and initiatives taken by our government are justified. In particular, we have addressed the question of workers in a substantial and effective way so far. In this Chamber we have had the opportunity to discuss several times - and my Minister has just repeated them - four packages to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on the economy and the labour market: the introduction of special-purpose licences, the measures of financial support for employees and free-traffic professionals, our intervention in the area of redundancies, but also the linking up of aid measures for enterprises with the protection of jobs. All this time we have been open to proposals to relaunch the sectors of the economy which have been most affected, as far as possible. And what does it mean to the extent possible, Mr. Kegeroglu? It means that these proposals are in line with the financial possibilities of our country. You've known us since the beginning realism and responsibility. We are also taking this approach on the issue of social tourism programming for the year 2020. In particular, you are asking for your proposal to be considered, the proposal of the Change Movement, for the establishment of an internal tourism programme. Your proposal includes the existing social tourism programmes, as you have just said, by extending them significantly in terms of the number of beneficiaries, overnight stays and wages. Let me remind you first of all of the framework governing social tourism. Since 2013 by law 4144 social tourism programmes have been implemented by the OAED. In particular, the Agency, the OAED, has a contribution of 1.35% to cover the expenditure concerned, while the programmes are drawn up each year by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Labour and the Minister for Finance. It goes without saying that this design had to be adapted to the data of the unprecedented health and social crisis in the pandemic. In this area, the design is directly dependent on the development of the pandemic and the findings of the specific infectious diseases regarding when and under which conditions and conditions the transition to tourist areas and the operation of tourist accommodation and other businesses in the sector is safe. You know very well, Mr President, that, until very recently and even in full unity and with full responsibility, we cannot say when our country will open up full tourists and therefore is a dynamic situation in which we, in cooperation with the government and the local government, are trying to cope. As soon as the European Commission came up with a common framework of guidelines and recommendations for tourism and transport, which includes many - I think you too - of our proposals and respects the free movement of persons, which is, moreover, one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the European Union was built. I'll close with the following and specialize in my dentistry. The Committee proposes that restrictive measures should be lifted so that they can be progressively implemented. Following the presentation of the common European framework, the Government is ready to present in the next few days the overall plan for the relaunching of tourism with a view always to protecting public health and supporting employment. I say this because you have generally referred to 'the next time'. Oh, no. It'll be in the next few days. At the same time we are moving forward in the planning of social tourism programmes. I'm going to go back to my dentistry with more specialty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The prediction was safe. It is not, of course, because Mrs Michailidou is answering us but because the government is failing. Regularism is trying to deal with a situation that needs a strategy. Therefore, the recession and the problems that arise in the economy and society are not only the result of the restrictive measures that the country was forced to take. Well, he's got it. And, as it seems, he took them with faster reflexes than other countries of the European Union. The recession is now due to the government's inaction. It is also because it is incapable of formulating policies which will take advantage of the country's potential for the recession to be less and less impact on society. Tourism has already come out of the norms concerning the European Union's issue and how to move tourism at European level. The relaxation of the measures was certainly a top priority. I would also say in favour of the right in some cases. This has been done by the European Union because it understands that the issue of the re-energisation of the economy and the activation of jobs is essential. If an activity dies, it doesn't relive with the switch shooting. It closes if it doesn't start again. What, in my view, burdens the government, what we as a Change Movement are criticising the government is that it is numb. He's pelagic and inactive in initiatives he should have taken. And if there were no suggestions, if there was no idea, or if there were no economic potential, there would be an excuse. If, for example, the government were called upon to operate in the context of the huge deficits that existed in the previous economic crisis, which the budgetary aspect really was essential, then it would have an excuse. But what excuse is there today when all the limitations from the European Union have been lifted in relation to the use of resources relating to the ESDP, the European Social Fund and other financial instruments on the part of the European Union? What excuse is there when we do not have the huge deficits we had in 2009 and 2010, but surpluses and in some cases beasts? Of course they come from the bloody taxation of Greek citizens, the small and medium-sized ones. But there are. No excuse, therefore. There's no excuse. The government, in its inertia, adds a significant proportion to the recession caused by the measures. We call upon them once again to consider the consequences of this inaction, to listen, to listen carefully to our well-processed proposals and to adopt at least the part for which they cannot be representative. And there was no adversary today. Classic social tourism programmes cannot respond to this exceptional situation in which we have been found. We need a broad programme with the budget of 750 million. This initiative may be dismantled and it may not be necessary to provide the same or more money for unemployment benefits and for the survival of the citizens affected by this recession in the tourism sector. As I have said, it concerns almost half the country's population. One and a half million workers and entrepreneurs are directly involved and another and a half million are indirectly involved, and of course the economy as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes for your dentistry to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. We are asked by my colleague for quicker reflexes and he blames us for failure to work out the proposals. Your proposals, the Change Movement, but also various other proposals that are circulated and submitted in the reasonable manner. He also blames us for weakness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u66	More.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u67	And more, but let me focus on this because I understand, Mr. Colleague, that the list is too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u68	For the social tourism programmes as far as farmers are concerned, OPEKA is responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u69	Speaking of which, I would like to remind you of something. I would like to remind you that we are one of the few countries of the European Union that we do not have a death in a closed structure. We don't have a death in a closed protection structure for disabled or older people. No death. A lot of countries, as you know very well, France, Sweden suffered a very large proportion of their pandemic deaths because they did not shield their structures properly. In Greece we had zero deaths within closed protection structures. So I would like this, as far as I am concerned, to become the flag of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. You blame us for a lot, but I'd like to focus on just one. You blame us for weakness. I would remind you of the four packages of measures that we have adopted. We have adopted them immediately and with full effectiveness. Who? First, the introduction of special-purpose licences. Secondly, the economic support measures of employees and free traders. Thirdly, our intervention in the issue of redundancies. Fourthly, the interconnection of aid measures for enterprises with the employment conservation clause. I would therefore call on the honourable Member to show greater responsibility and realism. It proposes 750 million from the resources of the 'SURE' to be allocated to social tourism. The resources of the 'SURE' appear to be 1.5 billion. So if we give 50% of social tourism, as you can see, I do not know how, with what realism and with what responsibility any government could do about what my Minister spoke about before, namely covering the difference between pre-coron and post-coronian wages. In particular, as regards social tourism, as I said before, the pandemic imposed the adjustment of social tourism programmes to the new context. What has the President of the OAED done? In order to achieve this, it extended the duration of the programme implemented for the period 2019-2020, which had a planned expiry date of 31 July 2020. In particular, its decision on 6 April 2020 extended the validity of one hundred and thirteen thousand cheques of beneficiaries and beneficiaries not yet used for a period of equal duration with the duration of the restrictive measures. As regards the social tourism programme for the period 2020-2021, a joint ministerial decision has already been adopted since February to prepare it. Due to the specific circumstances created by the pandemic, we are considering extending the number of beneficiaries and the duration of the stays, increasing the amount of grants and extending the programme to travel facilities. If this goes ahead, there may also be an increase in the amount of expenditure, which was set at EUR 10 million by the CFD. In this context, Mr Kegeroglu, we are also studying your own proposals, such as the proposal of your internal tourism programme, with a critical reservation as I said before. The extension of the programme shall be possible if the necessary resources are found, i.e. to the extent of the country's budgetary possibilities. I am afraid that from a programme of 10 million, when you have a 750 bill, including, of course, the 10 million already in existence, it makes it unrealistic, at least in its current form. I would remind you that you are talking about 750 million from a 'SURE' of 1.5 billion euros. However, as I said before, your proposal is moving in the right direction, in the direction of extending the programme, which we are already looking forward to, exploring and hopefully soon to be effective in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u72	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u73	We, for 'SURE', and for the exploitation of European resources, have tabled the proposal for the replacement of wage costs, for a million workers, for six months, 40% and Mr Mulkiotis developed it. My own proposal for internal tourism has nothing to do with 'SURE'. I have also talked about the bloody surpluses that have a pillow on them and about the rest. It should be clarified, because the Minister said that I proposed that the 'SURE' should go to 750 million. In no way, and that conclusion is not coming from anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u75	Here you go, Mrs. Michalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u76	Excuse me if that's the case. I will then request a correction to the Minutes, because I imagine that in the original minutes it had been recorded as 750 million since 1.5 billion. So, after your intervention, we are correcting, I imagine, and in the Minutes, this is not about 750 million from the 1.5 billion 'SURE', but about the extraordinary resources that our country will find from the state budget. So, to Mr. Dollacakis, Mr. Stakoura and the Ministry of Finance your next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. The second question will be discussed under number 674/11-5-2020 in the second cycle of the MP Argolidis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Providing free protection masks for workers'. Mr. Poula, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u79	You're welcome. Good morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u80	Madam Minister, the coronary pandemic has created new protection conditions, new requirements in the workplace. Now, more than ever, it is necessary to ensure the health of workers in the field of their work. It is self-proof, given the fact that every day we are learning more and more about the mechanism of operation and transmission of the highly dangerous Covid-19 strain, which has multiple implications for the human body. The protection of human health therefore requires that workers return to work safely and with the greatest possible care. According to EGEY, the use of personal protective measures is mandatory in a number of professionals, catering areas, public transport, taxis, health professionals, hospitals, private hospitals, diagnostic centres, hairdressing centres, aesthetic centres, supermarkets and food shops. In a number of other professionals, in offices, schools, universities, care centres, places of worship and retail shops, the use of the mask is optional and recommended. So once the EGE and the Scientific Committee decided to make compulsory use of the mask in the workplace, this is a daily necessity which cannot only be done at the cost of the worker. It is a basic principle of labour law that employers provide workers with all the necessary resources to carry out their duties and to ensure the safe exercise of their duties. We cannot claim to be protecting public health without ensuring that this basic protection instrument is provided, the mask free of charge at the basic lever of each undertaking, the worker. Public health is not only protected at the expense of the worker's pocket. At least, in specific categories of workers, of low paid workers, of those belonging to vulnerable groups and those most at risk of confusion, your Ministry needs to take care of the free supply of masks. To date, despite the too many shortcomings in individual protections covered by donations, the state has not contributed to what it is appropriate. At least the workers, who are the pillars of the next day for the retreading of the national economy, owe greater care in this direction is also our question. As Greeks we are proud that our respect for human life is a key cultural element. This is what we have demonstrated as citizens with the widest compliance with the rules of quarantine, our self-limitation and the adoption of individual protection measures. If we consider the risk of a second wave of pandemic, which is possible if we do not pay attention to the proper application of the conditions for relaxation, then the risk remains. We could suffer a new bigger blow to our economy and to the health of our citizens, which, after so many labors, was preserved after fifty days of quarantine. In addition, this shows us the revival of the incidents in Italy, Germany and China following the partial opening up of the markets and the reintroduction of workers to their jobs. A new plan of incarceration would be disastrous for our country, and we therefore call for you to take care to protect workers, with the greatest possible free provision of protective equipment and, above all, masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. The Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Maria-Domna Michailidou, will reply to this question as well. Mrs. Michaelidou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I fully understand your concerns. I will be honest with you, I fully share them. I would like to answer your question, starting with the basic health and safety rules for workers. More specifically, according to the Code of Law on the Health and Safety of Workers, the so-called CNYAE, ratified in 2010 by Law.3850, the legislation on safety and health at work applies in our country, unless otherwise specified, to all enterprises, facilities, farms and works of the private and public sectors, as well as to legal entities governed by public law and OTA, and to all workers employed by the employer with any employment relationship, including trainees and apprentices. A key pillar of this institutional framework is the legal concept of the sole responsibility of the employer, who is obliged to ensure the safety and health of workers and third parties in all aspects of work. In the context of its responsibilities, therefore, the employer must take the necessary measures to protect the health and safety of workers, including the activities of prevention, information and training, but also the establishment of the necessary organisation and the provision of necessary means. I am speaking in particular of paragraph 10 of Article 42 of the Staff Regulations. In any case, measures on safety, health and hygiene at work do not in any way imply the financial burden on workers and I stress this. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, especially in the context of the current health crisis, attaches great importance and weight to the safety and health issues of workers. It therefore draws attention to compliance with the existing provisions. To this end, the Circular was adopted on 4 May by our Ministry of Education's "Measures to protect the health and safety of workers at workplaces to prevent the spread of the coronary during the removal of restrictive measures", with a view to guiding both undertakings whose operation, of course, in the context of the current pandemic, was totally or partially suspended and those which are already in operation in terms of taking or maintaining or improving existing measures and preventing and controlling the spread of the coronary. The above measures and the relevant Directives shall be based on the basic principles and provisions of the existing institutional framework, in particular the CNYAE, as well as on the guidance and guidance of the National Agency for Public Health, the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health and the decisions of competent bodies. They also comply with the Directives in the Common Ministerial Decision of 3 March 2020 on social distance rules for private enterprises, public services and other public meeting places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Mr. Poula, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the question remains the same. Will you give free masks? Since the state is the employer, should it not provide free masks? We are asking for this because we really want the safety of workers, because it has another dimension. If they get sick or have a second wave of pandemics, the financial impact of all this history will be worse than going and financing the masks to be available to people for free. Let us look at the data, what is happening in other states, such as Japan, South Korea, Malaysia. Here, even Turkey and Peru, which are countries which do not have the development of other countries, offer masks. Spain gives masks to people who enter public transport. In France they give masks to vulnerable groups. Here, we have not heard anything specific, say that they are available for this social group or for these people for free masks. You know very well, that in a four-member family that needs masks the cost can start from 5 euros and reach up to 10 euros. Therefore, we cannot ask a man who has suffered the pains in ten years to pay the masks from his pocket. So you must look at it in another spirit and move on to giving masks to workers for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u86	Dear colleague, your question is clear. Clearly, however, it is also the answer I gave you. A key pillar of the framework for public health and safety at work is the sole responsibility of the employer. Mr Colleague, according to these directives, the employer must, with the help of the doctor, take preventive measures to ensure that the rules on personal hygiene are strictly respected at the workplace, that organizational measures are taken to reduce crowding, that workers are given appropriate protection, masks, etc., that they are supervised and trained for their safe use. Obviously, in any event where the worker is forced to use a mask, the above general provision of the Staff Regulations relating to a non-economic burden on the worker is applicable. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] You had two specific concerns: one in terms of the cost. We understand that as well and we do not want any of our fellow citizens, particularly those who have suffered from the difficulties of the economic crisis over the last ten years, to be burdened with that. We have given very clear scientific guidance on the creation of masks at very low or even low costs by the Ministry of Health. Finally, I would like to remind you that the measures we have taken so far do not indicate in any case that we have to be panicked about anything. I would remind you - and I do not wish to stress - that in Greece we are one of the very few countries that do not have a dead one in a closed pro-active structure. Not even one! Because, as you know, if we had one, it would be multiplier. We have shielded our structures, structures of elderly people, structures of disabilities, structures of people with disabilities so well that so far we have had no death in closed public or private pro-private structures. So, the problem you're tracking I recognize. However, I would like us to think about them responsibly, given the conditions that exist today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u87	We continue with the first with the number 666/6-5-2020 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The importance of the government's planning for the North Axis of Crete in the midst of the koroni pandemic". Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I think that at this juncture the economic consequences, but also the package of measures that each government will adopt, are at the heart of topicality, much more so when it comes to serious infrastructure projects. Minister, a recent report by the Parliamentary Budget Office refers to the limited impact of the measures so far announced, since the expenditure is either by transfer or by suspension of taxes, which, unfortunately, do not directly affect Gross National Product. In order to design these interventions, the criterion of the degree of impact on GDP is considered to be of major importance. In the same spirit as the Centre for Economic Studies, the well-known JEP, points out the central role of the public sector in reducing the impact of the recession, in order to provide greater potential through serious public investment, which will actually affect GDP and employment and, of course, compensate for the significant part of the negative effects of the pandemic - which we are already experiencing - in the Greek economy. In this respect, therefore, the view of the Northern Road Axis of Crete is a historic lack of infrastructure, the largest artery that has not been completed in our country. It is therefore a key task, which affects wool in the country's GDP, and if anything else it has been decided that its necessity is beyond given. We therefore have this: for over a year now, a specific competition procedure has been initiated with Law 4412/2016, despite all the reports by Mr Karamanlis on'skin and sketches'. The competition's moving on. In fact, it is also the questions that will be further shared in order to be more precise. In discussions and references to the Greek Parliament, the Minister has said that within 2021 the tender will be opened and that the studies, in particular environmental studies, as well as geotechnics and others that can be further analysed within the year. Because we know the times and how long such a process is, we all realise that the answers to the following questions are urgent: Firstly, with regard to the study maturation I mentioned, what specific studies have already been carried out and what have been inclined to mature and when? Secondly, the financial instrument will be used because we had heard about SMPs, we had heard a number of potential, quasi, financial tools, which I imagine, in the midst of the pandemic, may have changed any design. However, because it is of paramount importance to finance this project, the answer to this question is imperative. Thank you, Mr President, and I am reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u89	He has the floor for the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mamulaki, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for your question, because you are coming to agree - and this is pleasant - with something that, firstly, I think, the New Democracy and, more generally, the centre-right parties in Europe have said, that investments in the very large infrastructure projects have a very important multiplier. This multiplier, to give you an example, in a project such as E65, in its northern part, is more than two and its contribution to GDP will be 0.5%. You are also quite right that it tends to look like a joke now, because I simply think that for too long we politicians have things that do not respond to reality. So here we are to put things in order. I would therefore like to assure you that BOAK is an absolute priority for the government and a personal commitment from the Prime Minister. But whether we like it or not, we have to put things in a row and see where we were and where we are. What you had done as a government - your party, not you personally - was a simple call for expressions of interest. What does that mean, just to tell people to understand it? It means which companies are interested in participating in the tender in the future. In short, you have chosen the technical companies that can participate, when and when we are ready to tender. That is why I told you that this was a pencil on the map, because there was no one, but no, studyable maturity and no approval of engraving. I also inform you that he only came to the Ministry of Infrastructure yesterday and the Archaeological Documentation Report, which means that for so many years now, four and a half if I'm not cheated, you haven't done that either. What is the Archaeological Documentation Exhibition? It is essentially reports that have come from the four Evolutions of Antiquities, Chania, Rethymnon, Heraklion and Agios Nikolaos, which say in a few words at which point we risk finding ancient. That is why we have no engraving. If we do not have the Archaeological Documentation Report, the Ministry cannot give it to the Ministry of the Environment to initiate the environmental impact study process. So that was the incredible readiness that has existed for four and a half years. Also, you did something else that I think proves you're distorting reality. You said we'd do three different ways of bidding. The first public work, the other as PPP and the other concession contract. We don't have a toll-free concession in Greece. It shall not be understood as a concession without tolls. Just so we know what we're talking about. So, because you are accusing us of putting tolls - the concession agreement, which you had actually approved, certainly implied that there would be tolls and even the cost of the project would reach 1.3 billion. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I see that time passes and I would like to hear your remarks to have a real dialogue and not a monologue, in my denture, I will explain to you what we have done these eight months, what the studies we have done. I will also explain to you the procedure and timetable that we have, which has not changed greatly because of the crisis, as well as the financial model that we prefer and we will consider. Unfortunately, however, to close my prototype, Mr President, it is important to say at last to the Cretans that we are currently in the first stage of the studies, and that is because these studies were actually carried out eight months ago when the New Democracy came to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the theory of the Minister gives an opportunity to explain a few key issues. First, the first and foremost question concerning the invitation of interest to open, international competition. Is the competition or is it not there? It's a very important question. Because when you set up a contest at the same time, you keep it and you keep it, they arise, as you can see, questions arise. So the competition exists. For seventeen months that the open international competition for the North Road has been on the air. The conclusions I think are...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u93	It's not a competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u94	He's open...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u95	Remove him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u96	If there are really so many issues, we will also discuss them further. I am pleased to see that for seventeen months the competition and ten months on your own behalf has been maintained. I am also surprised to hear that the pre-approved archaeological preferences, in essence, which are indeed linked to the environmental approval decision, came as soon as yesterday. In other words, for ten months, the famous GDP has not been in a position to play. This is central to understanding the degree of uncertainty and improperness in this matter. No matter how ironically you become, with the excess poetry that governs you, here the mathematics are vague, the time is specific and the world of Crete awaits this work. It has started, well or badly, with an open and international competition from the previous government, and here we see that you are the islands. You are challengingly delaying, Minister! Because it's good to put things on their name too, you tell me about engraving, the background. It's very important. There must always be the subject to build any infrastructure. I feel, too, about the Ministry of Infrastructure, that there is no differentiation in the question of shifting enthusiasm. Besides, the approvals you have received from the Archaeological Service on what form are they, Minister? Apparently, on her own. Obviously, on what we in an open procedure went ahead. In closing, because I don't want to get tired, I want to be targeted, I happen to be a political engineer and know the subject and have been busy with me since the Technical Chamber. The work really presents difficulties. We neither have nor do we consider that there is no intention, but it is our duty to be here, - let me the term - sometimes annoying, for the sake of progress and completion of this work, and we see, with specific norms governing public works and international and public competitions, that this does not exist. To conclude, Minister, I hope that for this project you will also inform the local community in good time and will not repeat phenomena of depreciation and contempt according to your no honourable refusal for three and a half months to submit to Parliament the Greek State's loan contract with the European Investment Bank for the airport 'Nikos KAZANTZAKIS', as we have repeatedly called for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u97	You're completely accurate in time. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. I see that you insist on throwing ashes into the eyes of your voters. And I'm explaining: The contest is a default contest. We have no reason to cancel him. Because a contest, since you're also an engineer, without a auction, is not meant to be. What have you guys done? For four and a half years the procedures were too slow. I do not want to go into political controversy about this. Four-and-a-half years we didn't have a final development, we didn't have an ADI, we didn't have a geotechnical study, we didn't have anything. These, you know, are known to the technical world of Crete and to all of Greece. So I don't think we should go into controversy about this. So we say: at the moment we have no reason to cancel a tender which is, in fact, a pre-selection procedure. Five major companies have been selected to participate in the tender. What have you guys done? You did a communal terminology. Ten months before you left, you had a pre-selection contest, an expression of interest. The world doesn't understand what the difference is. So here we are to explain what the difference is. Therefore, do not play with words, especially within Parliament. When we go out and tell people a few things to tell the reality. What have we done? First of all, it is the archaeological studies that have not come. But I'm sorry, do you blame us for the eight months when you hadn't made the engraving in four and a half years? You know this has a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u99	There was a mark.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u100	I didn't interrupt you. There was no carving! Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u101	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u102	As you lie, once again, about the tolls! Why did you get out here in Parliament and say that we will not have tolls and you signed a concession agreement on the design. And I can explain to you: a concession without a devastated, shadow toll or normal toll, there is no one. And when we caught you and told you that, what were you up to and out and said? You said "We didn't mean we would have tolls for the Cretans. We will only have for tourists." But, well, are you serious? You don't even know Community legislation? Can we just put tolls on those who come? That's never happened! So one lie brings another. But to answer what we have done. I think I was clear in these two and a half minutes and I gave up the arguments four and a half years ago. Firstly, we have moved forward and completed the procedures for geotechnical research and the finalisation of the study object of the road construction. Secondly, as far as geological, plumbing and environmental impact study are concerned, there has been full readiness since last August to start these studies in Chania - Naples. Finally, we have already started studying the Archaeological Documentation Exhibition, which you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u103	Do you understand what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u104	I'm sorry, but I didn't interrupt you. Evidently, the Members of Parliament in Crete are embarrassing. I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u105	No embarrassment, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u106	I get it. And embarrassing and irritating...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Polakis, first you don't share...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u108	He's fucking with us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u109	I get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Polakis, you're not involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u111	He's fucking with us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u112	Oh, no. Watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u113	And now, we're moving on to the final...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u114	We have IQ, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u115	Please! Mr. Mamulakis is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u116	Are you done? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Are you done? Do I have the floor? I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u117	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u118	Democracy, my dear, works in a speech and analogy. You said your arguments, we heard them, the Greek people heard them, the Cretans heard them and they will draw their conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u119	They're listening to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u120	From timeline point of view...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u121	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Pollack, excuse me, but you're not respecting anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u123	What do you say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u124	Yeah, that's right. Please! This is a parliamentary control, Mr Mamulakis asks and you have no right to participate. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u125	We're ready for the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u126	We all have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Polakis, I'd be happy to have you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u128	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u129	Where's the mercy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u130	What he's talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u131	...a question and I'd be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u132	Is that mercy? That this is how we intervene because we have a strong voice? Please don't interrupt. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u134	There's no staff in the newsroom. Find the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u135	Such descriptions by Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u136	What was the designation?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u137	"A liar"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u138	To tell someone that he's lying, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u139	I patiently expect you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u140	Rescind? But I didn't talk about you. I talked about your resignation. To you? Alas! You were not a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u141	Minister, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u142	In terms of timetable, therefore, what I would like to say is that in six months the geotechnical studies will have been completed. In fact, in order to show you how much we have run, we have proceeded with the tendering of these studies, amounting to 2 million, which demonstrates that we are progressing rapidly in the implementation of the project, which your government has not done. In other words, what we can call 'geometric design of the project', which you hadn't done, is in good shape and moves according to the timetable set by us eight months ago. Now, with regard to the financing of the two projects: You are absolutely right that right now the data is changing. But we, unlike other political groups that you represent, have said that we will make a financial model, which will also have tolls. Do you understand what the difference is? We told the truth. We said we would look at all the data to make this project available. Because no one has ever had the political courage to stand up and tell the Cretans that for thirty years this work has not been done, because no one has had the honesty to say that this work without toll is not done. And we say that to the Greek Parliament, and the Prime Minister himself said so when he came down to Crete and presented it. And can I tell you something else, Mr. Comrade? In fact, but clearly - and here is something that, I think, shows the immaturity of the political system - you say so too. For you too, when you took off the project, had within the project a piece called the 'concession contract'. And all those involved in infrastructure projects around the world know that when we say 'concession contract', we mean tolls. This is to make things clear and not to go back to issues that should have been closed for a long time. So let us not fight and let us not enter into political controversy. These are breathworks. We agree that the work must be done. So let's sit down and draw it seriously and let's leave the past behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u143	We continue with the discussion of the fourth under number 668/8-5-2020 of the second-round question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Scandalo 76.2m euros at the EGNATIC LEVEL S.A.’. Here, Mr. Bored, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, first of all something that is not in my question. Minister, do you really believe what you said before, that for forty years the axis in northern Crete was not there because there was no one to tell him that it would be on toll? Forty years you have been at your disposal. Why didn't you tell him? Why did you keep it a secret? Well, you don't believe it yourself. Let's go to the question now. First of all, I think it is positive that you have come to answer on a timely basis. I hope your answer does not include the quality of your dentistry in the previous question, where there is no correspondence and you say what is unfounded. I say, then, that nineteen people were referred to a scandal - not scandalology, scandal - which evolved into two phases and from which the Greek public was damaged EUR 76 million. So what happened? And it is proven, because the committee that took over to check the receipt, in its honor - and good for it! - he sat down, documentedly, with all the documents and said that this work, in this way - with false invoices, with overcompensations, EUR 76 million - cannot be received. And that's judicially proven. The Appeals and Larissa and Kosani ruled. Proved! The questions, Minister, are - I will say them briefly, do you think I can save time for later - the following: did you know the matter? I'm waiting for an answer. Did you know that people involved and referred to a series of felonies, based on an adjective, are those whom you chose to place them in administrations of organisations for taking up the duties of your Government? Did you know? Do you know that Egnatia officials, who are referred to the same issue and who have not submitted anything avenged or punishable, have simply removed them from the right to sign documents of economic interest, are you coming and making them? For what? Secondly, what steps have you taken to claim the sums unduly paid EUR 76 million? Unnecessarily! He shouldn't have given it to the state. They weren't entitled to those who took them. So, what did you do to claim them? And thirdly - would I take it for granted if we were not in Greece - the 'ENGINATIA WOODS' will be present, will it authorize the civil action in the court that is going to take place for this reason? I look forward to your clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Bored. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would suggest that Mr. Bored to put the trigger crowns aside a little bit...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u147	Call it whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u148	...that I think they're tired of the Greek people, and it doesn't fit, according to my personal appreciation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u149	Heads... (Didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u150	I, Mr. Bored, have not interrupted you. I can't start and interrupt. Is this how you understand the democratic dialogue in Parliament? It's my personal opinion. I think this talk of scandalism does not help the place. You disagree. What can we do? That's why democracy is. To disagree. Well, let's see how things actually get, because I have a feeling that from what you said if someone doesn't know the case, he doesn't understand what we're talking about. And I want your tolerance, Mr President, because there is an issue of moral order here. The EGNATIA OFDOS S.A. had auctioned thirty-two contracts at the same time in the period 2004-2009, totalling 2.8 billion. Two of them were in the Grevenes region and in Ioannina. I do not need to say the codes: 1096, 1097 and about 1096 almost 44 million and 1097 35 million. The two contractors - be careful - were properly completed. In other words, they were paid and there was a deliverable project. So while these contractors had been properly completed and, therefore, it had become the road, to understand it, there was a very long delay, as Mr Bordenos says, in the process of receiving the works, which is in 2012, that is, three years later. However, when the receipts are made, it can be observed that some of the accompanying documents are incomplete and therefore the competent committees of the 'ENGINAWO' have refused to receive the project while it has been constructed, Mr President. In fact, the Kosani appeals have taken the view of the 'ENGINATIA WILL' that two facts have not been taken into account, and here we must take into account two facts. Firstly, the appeals did not consider that the works were not constructed, but that no supporting documents were found. That's the point. That's the terrible scandal. Good? And, secondly, that the cases were dealt directly with at the Court of Appeals, as usual, but not at the end of the court, Mr Varremene, because they are pending in the Areios Ice and there are many legal battles pending, not only with the nineteen people you say, but also with the contractor, who had also gone to the court. You have also left some suspicions to your question if the EGD has exercised its rights. Of course, he will exercise them and has not recalled a political appeal. This has not been revoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u151	Doesn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u152	The presentation of a civil action in the trial held for the 4-5-2020 has not been revoked, but because of the pandemic and whenever it takes place, the "ENGENATIO WEBON" will be sure to be present in the proceedings. There's one more thing I want to say. With regard to the discounting of the guarantee letters, you are unaware that neither the previous administration of the «ENGINAWO» for two and a half years has made such a move, but also the «ATTICAT», which was the contracting company, with an application for interim measures, had requested that the guarantee letters of the project be not discounted. Finally, let me tell you how this story started to have the whole history. The press release had been filed by a particular man who had declared himself president of the "GENNATIA DWO" at an illegal meeting in October 2015, and, indeed, without going through the relevant committee of Parliament, without even receiving the consent of the supervising Minister, your Minister, who, in my view, was quite right, Mr. Spirtzis, in 2016, came and changed the director of the "GENATIA DWO". Now, with regard to the assumption that some of these people are in other positions, first of all, if you have a last name complaint, you should name it. Secondly, we are living in rule of law, Mr Barremene. Has any of these people been convicted? Oh, no. Isn't there the presumption of innocence? Are legislation, executive and judicial authority not distinguished in a country like Greece? So, what do you want? Put them all on fire? And I'm telling you here in great detail that we're talking about a case that has to do with it, not about the fact that a 70 million-dollar project was paid and wasn't executed. The project was executed. Just, there are some issues about the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u153	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u154	Yes, Mr President, I will say the rest in my dilemma, because I have specific documents to put down, because I, Mr Baroness, have been taking this place very seriously for years. We will submit the documents, we will wait for the judicial decisions, and then we are here again to see and draw our final conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u155	Here, Mr Varirmene, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u156	Minister, please describe it as the matter you want. Did anyone tell you that the project wasn't carried out? Who are you addressing? To viewers, who may be distracted, what is going on in this debate? You're talking about some paperwork. This is where we talked about fake invoices. Unnecessarily, he says, Minister, the money has been paid. Do you understand what "impossibly" means? It's a court order. Do you understand? Will that money come back? In what way?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u157	The project was executed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u158	After they have been wrongly paid. Do you understand? Who are you addressing and saying that the project was carried out? The project was executed, but this way. People who weren't entitled to money took money. They took it illegally. Do you understand? Characterize it as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u159	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u160	And you're telling me 'you're implied'. I didn't hint. Clearly speaking. You put a gentleman in the OSH. I did not give a personal dimension to this issue, but did you put it for what reason? You guys have a huge tank of excellent guys. Isn't that what you were saying? Where's the excellence here? I'm asking you. Of course the procedural procedure must come to light. I don't contract. But why do you choose him? What for? What's his excellence? Don't you keep an ass, anyway? You don't hold on to being exposed, Minister, because I expected you to come here and say any more. You've probably not been informed. Admit it. But, here it seems that you have been informed and come to cover it, saying: 'Have you been told that the project has not been delivered?' Do you know how much euros have been delivered to this country in this way? Do you know why the country pays twice and twice as much as the other countries pay for the same projects? Haven't you ever heard of that? And you put any word you want. The employees, why do you upgrade them? Every right-wing man is good, too? Is that your doctrine? I have a few seconds, Mr President, against a broad interpretation of the procedure, to say something about what the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u161	I don't know what you're holding. You're done, Mr. Bored. If you're not done, you're done. There's no tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u162	The Minister did not answer all three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u163	I'll give you a minute to say what he didn't answer, because you don't have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u164	Why did he place it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u165	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u166	Secondly, it says that the project has been carried out and there is no question of claiming a refund. Where did that sound? Where are you headed? Who? To natives? And you're saying after he was executed, he can't claim the public money that was wrongly paid, do I repeat? Who do you say that to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Varemene. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u168	When we talk about a number of people who are accused, my dear fellow Member, you must know that these cases have not been finalised. In other words, you have now come to the Greek Parliament as if we were in the midday zone of a channel and blame a man or nineteen people without a final decision. So you'll get all the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u169	You guys did this with information. Here's the shot!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u170	Monsieur Baroness, don't interrupt. You years have been here in this seat. You said what you said. You'll get the answer. They're judging us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u171	This is how you and your protractedness realise the issues of separation of powers. That's how democracy works. That's how the favoured state works. You repeat the mistakes of the past, and now you remind me of what had been done a few years ago here in Parliament. The then Minister, Mr Spirtz - the government - to question that I had then submitted to him when I was in the chairs of the Anti-Population Committee - asked him a question because he had gone to the prosecutor, Mr Papathanassis and Mr Thomopoulos of the SAC, on the charge of misappropriation of EUR 30 million - was then trying to say that the deficit in urban transport was due to this misappropriation of a scandal that was that and that one. You know what happened? Mr. Papathanasiou was acquitted. The defendant was Mr Papathanasiou and then the Director General of the New Democracy. I never heard your resignation or the then Minister get out to apologize. Is that how you understand justice? Are you judges too? So shall we wait for the decision? Now you twisted something I said. I didn't say there was no issue. I said that the project was carried out and that, here, we have the report of the Special Quality Control Adviser of the Ministry of Finance in 2010 - not when the New Democracy government - which says that all supporting elements, namely invoices and all other documents needed, were there and there was no lack of evidence. These - and I am tabling them in the Minutes, Mr President - are at the disposal of justice and justice is currently considering this data. So here, or rather you come to tell us why we have not condemned a man or nineteen people without going to court. And 'why', you say, 'we're using him somewhere else?' Didn't you learn from what you did to Mr. Papathanassis, then a New Democracy official, today a State Secretary, and Mr. Thomopoulos, who was then a CEO at the SSY, who came out and accused them while you were a government and eventually these people in the second degree were acquitted? The presumption of innocence cannot be questioned in a country like Greece, because then we go to another conversation. I therefore accept that this issue is open, we have never hidden it. I told you that the EGENATIDE will be attended by all the courts and we will wait until the final decision is finalised. So stay away from here and the crowns, away from here and the excesses! There's no disagreement. There is a disagreement - I think - because it is clear that we understand the role of justice, and otherwise you understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. We continue with the second with No 665/6-5-2020 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Scandal in the 6th Health Region (YPE) with overvaluation of individual protection measures." Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I've made a series of postings on the subject. There have been dozens of publications in the 6th HR area and in Patras and in Yannina. The first question - and I start with it - is why you continue to cover Mr Carvelis. This particular commander has made a first attempt to grab a predator - so I say it, because that is what it is - when he goes and gives a direct assignment of EUR 1.5 million for high-protection masks at a price of EUR 20 on the same day - about that - which the 1st RC takes these masks at EUR 5.2. In fact, when we publish it, the next day Mr Laniotis supplier - 'BBD Laniotis' comes out, there was the direct assignment - and he says 'you know, I cannot afford it'. A week later, the process continues normally.That's what happens on 25-26 March. On April 1st, it shows that it's going on properly. They get journalistic information that there is a relative relationship between Mr. Carveli and the supplier and the next day the information comes out, the offer is canceled, this contest, the emergency. We publish it then, we call on you "do something, it can relapse man, if that's the case." And then we have the second episode, which is the TYVEC high-protection suits. There is a whole scenario of how the story was set up, that is, on the 12th of the month and it says 'I need these uniforms and I want them until 31 March'. It does not post the invitation with the number 'HIBLE' on the Site of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is posted to the Ministry - we will say about them and then - and it will be posted to the Ministry 20 minutes after the end of the opening of tenders and the award. Twenty minutes later, he hasn't done it with anyone else! No other competitions! He awards it to a company, which is again Mr. Lanniotis. It is one called EUROSUP, which is controlled by a Cypriot. In Cyprus he is his nephew, his other sister, Mr. Petus, who is also a member of the Central Committee of EMU of the New Democracy. He's his own company, he's covering it. Other ‘BBD Lainiotis’, other ‘EUROSUP’. He is the same man, but he is seen by the addresses and the other manager of "EUROSUP", Mr. Lagutos, has him in a board of directors of another company. And he ends up and says "I'll get 18,6 euros without VAT, 23 euros with VAT", when Mr. Stathis on the 1st HR - you've done the 1st HR - takes them the next day when the 8 euros were awarded. So the question is clear: Why do you continue to cover it? It's more obvious that this is where we set up. We set up and dispersed the public money, because we put back on the treatment of pandemic, but back on the blooming and plundering of "leaf trees" to friends, we're not going to put on. And we want a concrete answer, because it's terribly challenging. And we'll send them to the D.A., all of this. I was expecting the question to be asked, because I was told he went and took the evidence. I got everything here. We'll take the evidence to the Prosecutor of Patras, but there's a matter of political responsibility here, because if you don't send Mr. Carvelis away, you'll have Mr. Stath here on the 1st D.C., who took the same materials in 1/3 of the price. One-third of the price! Which is legal and moral? And I hold back for a lot of other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u174	Mr Minister, Mr Contozamanis, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Polakis, some have perhaps tried to take advantage of the crisis for the same benefits. We all know what happened at this time and what battle was fought in order to have sufficient materials in the country. However, any attempt which has been failed is due to the governors of the seven health regions, one of which is the commander of the 6th Health Region, who has actually appealed to the prosecutor and has lodged the relevant documents. And not just that, it has even gone further, it has submitted to the Competition Committee the details of the companies and all their products, both those who have contracts with the sanitary region and those who have merely provided tenders in order to control both the purchase prices of these materials by the companies and the sales prices. So we have nothing to hide and we have nothing to fear. All we won't tolerate is any opaque phenomena. Our confidence in the people who manage the institutions of the Ministry of Health is clearly given. In any case, the scandal designations I think are unfounded and unfounded. I come to the essence of the matter. We have been called upon to meet health and other requirements, as I said, in very short time, with a very high global demand, resulting in these values being shaped at high levels. Nevertheless, the purpose has been achieved. On the one hand, the procedures for supplying measures for personal protection, as well as general material and equipment to deal with the health crisis in Coronovirus, have been envisaged and implemented in transparent manners and practices. Everything happened in the light and nothing in the dark. We have secured the public interest and we continue to do so. On the other hand, we have succeeded rapidly in meeting all the needs that have arisen and where material has been needed, that has been unsatisfactory. That was why our system endured, had a complete adequacy of resources and materials, and we did not see images that we saw in other countries with doctors and nurses wearing garbage bags. It is characteristic that, following decisions of the Central Board of Health Regions, competitive procedures have been carried out for the supply of materials in all health regions, in accordance with the relevant legislation and legislative acts. These competitions have had specific results per sanitary region. Suppliers have submitted their tenders to materials. These have been evaluated in relation to their price, technical specifications and delivery times. The results of the competitions were all set out in the ‘DENMARK’. Some of them came out barren and some were convicted and came out barren, for there was a weakness of material delivery. All this is, of course, made public and made available to you. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance a little. With regard to the supplies of personal protective equipment in the 6th Health Region for the masks FFP3, to say that a competitive procedure was opened, tenders were submitted and finally the requested quantities were awarded at the price of EUR 16,40, which was the most advantageous. At this point, I would point out that e-mail was sent to fifteen - not one, not two! - companies for the submission of a bid. The company to which the commission was awarded was asked to sign a contract and deliver the masks, which was not done for the whole quantity, and therefore a written declaration of the company was requested for the failure to perform the delivery of the masks. Thus, the management of the health region has resulted in the withdrawal of the award and non-implementation of the contract. I don't think there's anything wrong here. That's how it had to be, and that's how it happened. Should the 6th Health Region proceed to supply the masks without complying with the contractual obligations and in an undetermined period of delivery of the materials? Then you'd have every right to blame us. But now you don't. With regard to TYVEC costumes, only one offer from one company was submitted in this public invitation to supply TYVEC suits. The need for the immediate supply of the uniforms at that time, along with the undeniable fact of the absence of other offers, led the 6th Health Region to award the commission to that company. Otherwise, we would have no uniforms for the staff of the hospitals in the 6th Health Area. We have covered all needs in the National Health System by making sound and proper management of available funds. We have said that there is no question of money and we have managed to cover all the needs we have had at very small costs, in relation to other countries. You mentioned the comparison of prices with other health regions. Prices for the FFP3 masks were high in all the competitive processes of all health regions. Unfortunately, increased demand in relation to the limited quantities and the need for direct deliveries has launched prices. Simple market economy rules. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u177	Minister, I sincerely understand your deplorable position to be obliged to cover politically one thing which is a proud scandal. Firstly, for masks the reality is not so, Minister. The next day when I post the post that the price is extremely high because in Athens and elsewhere we get them much lower, the supplier, Mr. Lainiotis, sends a letter. and it says 'I can't deliver them'. On 1 April it normally proceeds with the procedure and sends paper to approve the commission. You have these papers. I'll testify to everything in the House. He sends paper on April 1st, on April 7th, his relative relationship is learned - Mr Lainiotis and Mr Carvelis - and on 8 it is cancelled. That's the reality. As far as TYVEC costumes are concerned, there's a poaching. I don't know who's done it. If the Department's done it, it's gonna be a big deal. Look, it is not possible to do this: the commander's decision that says that "I will proceed to a call for expressions of interest for TYVEC suits, in approval of the plan, and I will entrust it with electronic offers, etc." and that decision has a protocol number of 2321 in the 6th Health Area, on 12 March, at 12.55' at noon. The invitation of interest posted to you - because on the website of the HR was not posted - has a protocol number 11708! Who forged? The gentleman at the 6th Ministry or the Ministry? Who forged? The same day ten thousand difference in protocol? Here it is, here it is. One has protocol number 2321 and the other, the same day, protocol number 11708! What's that? Not even the White House accepts so many documents a day! You laugh, Mr. Contozamanis, but the point is: 'Because he's a friend of Mr. Bekiri's, you cover him? Let me get this straight. Because here, 'a country that seems like, it doesn't want to.' But we're going to the other ones. The term that one company came is because it says '31 of the month', that '31 of the month I want the uniforms'! Mr. Stathis here on the 1st D.C. he took costumes at 8 euros and not at 18.66 - one day then the award took place, one day later! - He said 12:13 of the month he wants them at 31! So, there's no human being coming! And be careful with me, he's signing the contract with him on April 2 for the uniforms. And watch me even more! On 30 April - the urgency, the terrible one, 'we left nothing! - He sends Lannoite and says: "Give me an extension, I can't bring them." It's a set-up, Minister! Battery! You can't put time for delivery nineteen days, send a letter to you a month after the nineteen days ended and say "give me an extension" and give him and go up to 15-20 May! The uniforms haven't gone. Have the uniforms gone? Here's the question. And if it wasn't so urgent and we gave the extensions, why didn't you follow the normal procedure? You have used the urgent procedure because of the coronary with the legislative acts, in order to set it up and assign it to this particular, Lainiotis, disguised with Cypriot offshore companies, so that it does not appear to be the other one, and it is possible that he has not yet brought these masks. So cancel this order, and, in my opinion, dismiss Mr Carvellis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall submit all these documents that are in place here. They won't raise any objections. It is what we say 'a village that seems like a collar does not want'. It's more obvious what he's done over there. We are also learning about another health region, but I have not yet come out, because I want to have the haunted one we have here. Where we've got the haunting, we'll do that thing. You know, to finish - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, today you are very sweet, honest! - We have played a very big game in the past few years and valued the last euro - I stress it, in the last euro! - which we administered. Give it to you, if you can, because it's not possible to party. And don't say now why there's been thousands of articles talking about deficiencies, etc. And all this now, we didn't accidentally go out and say: "Find children, put price. This thing can't be done. Put valuation in place’. But, unfortunately, Mr. Georgiadis, as a protector of wholesale traders, does not. If he had entered consideration, that wouldn't have been possible, it couldn't have been done. That is why I have said many times that corruption blooms when political choice allows it. If you don't put the price on, you let the rodents underneath set up a dance and a party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u178	Minister, you have the floor to answer with the same comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Polakis, we didn't put any credits and we didn't find any materials. You imagine we'd put a price on materials what would happen? We wouldn't even be able to make notices. Looks like your problem is with Mr. Carveli.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u180	It's a public money-sharing thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u181	There's no dissipation of public money. Everything has been done as laid down by the laws, by legislation or act of law, by public invitations to tender, by companies that have submitted tenders, by awarding tenders which are more favourable than those which have been followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u182	They weren't kept.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u183	It's all here and they'll be examined. We have said that Mr Carvelis himself appealed to justice, went to the Competition Committee and we will see the relevant findings. I would once again like to emphasise the fact - and I have relevant information here, which I can send you if you like - that masks of FFP3 were not delivered to the 6th Health Region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u184	After we revealed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u185	It's not after you revealed it. There wasn't. We have said many times throughout the country, in all health regions, that we have launched millions of euros contests and we have managed to make a few thousand euros compatible. At that time there was a global war, there were no materials and we did - you know, as the Minister of Social Affairs informed the Committee on Social Affairs, they became familiar - and air bridges were set between the Greek state and, above all, China with the contribution of both the Greek state and individuals, in order to bring here the materials we have and still come - the other ones came - and we are preparing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. We continue with the sixth under number 680/11-5-2020 current question of the second question of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Abrogation of Emergency Sections (TEP) as an autonomous part of the hospitals and subjecting them to the JEPY-ESDP". Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u187	Minister, quite suddenly, without this topic having been raised in the public debate, the Minister comes into an interview with him and says that we have a plan to disconnect the TPAs, the Emergency Sections, which is the first line of defence of the system and a critical link to the operation of hospitals, and to interconnect them with the new body that emerged from the merger of the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA. I think this is a move which has no documentation and the main question is who recommended it to you. You say you hear the experts and we have to listen to them. What is the scientific recommendation and documentation of this choice? At this time, the pandemic has, in my view, highlighted the very critical importance of well-organised and well-trained specialist medical emergency departments, which were really organised at this time and it was very critical that the pandemic has found us with an important upgrade of them. I would remind you that, after thirty years, in 1987, the scientific request was first formulated to establish a specialization in emergency medicine. So this previous SYRIZA government, which did nothing and you came in in five weeks' time and solved problems for decades, came, gave it a study, gave it a report, changing the status of emergency medical services in Greece - there was a WHO study since August 2017 - to consult the intra-scientific community, spoke to the U.S. Scientific Society of Emergency Medicine, came WHO experts from abroad, arrived at a project, institutionalised the specialisation of emergency, created the first training centers and, above all, called targeted five hundred 20 special posts for TIPs throughout the country. It is a very important contribution, which has been made by the establishment of the ESS. You know very well that TLPs were atrocious sections, subordinated and usually their routine covered by qualified doctors. So we were found by the pandemic having over three hundred qualified doctors on the front line of defense and so they were better organized and they were properly sorted and there were preparatories for the examination of suspicious cases, so that there would not be any dispersion in the other emergencys, etc. So you are coming now, all of a sudden, and you are discussing a change, which - in our view - is an amputation of a critical part of the hospital system, is, in fact, a cancellation of this change in emergency medicine, will be a disincentive for specialists to come in and specialise in this very important area that has been lacking so far, there will be a problem in the training of specialists who pass through and do Rotation from the hospitals, and there will, of course, be a serious operational problem from the unsatisfactory collaboration of doctors in clinics and other departments in the hospital with staff belonging to another agency and having administrative, scientific and organisational responsibility other than the public hospital. That's what I think is proud of. I think there is not a single person at this time who suggests it to the public health system, the people who have taken over in the departments, the GLP directors, the scientific company, everyone. I really want you to explain why this debate is taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Xanthi. Mr. Minister, Mr. Kontozamanis, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xanthe, I'm afraid you misinterpreted the Minister's statements. We may radically disagree with the way in which we approach various issues, including health, but I think that in the matter of emergency medicine and emergency departments there is convergence, and in no case have we said that we will abolish emergency departments from hospitals. I'm sure the TLS obviously stays in hospitals as separate sections. The connection we are talking about at the EAW - JEPY is about on-call, because the TPAs certainly need to be interconnected with the National Emergency Aid Centre, so that we can form an integrated system of emergency pre-privileged care. The emergency department is premeditated and must be interconnected with the emergency department. We have said that in the run-up to the elections, and I think we are in agreement. It is also to the honour of the previous government that it has proclaimed the positions in the emergency departments, that specialisation has proceeded, and we have even gone further with the centres of specialization. I should like to say at this point that we want to go further, to be able to establish an emergency medical expertise, because right now it's a specialty. I therefore think that you have probably misinterpreted the statement made by Minister Kikilia and I think that we all agree on this point together and can find convergence points in terms of the scientific and operational autonomy of TENs, their staff, etc. A recent example, at least from us, but also from you, is the treatment of the health crisis of the coronary. I think we have gained even more experience in how an emergency can be managed. We can agree that the role of the National Direct Aid Centre is indeed catalytic and how this system of emergency pre-medical care can be functionally interconnected with emergency departments. We will go further in strengthening emergency departments with separate departments in hospitals and more substantial emergency departments. We have examples, such as the emergency department in Heraklion, Crete, which is a model for us for how we can really set up such a department. That is clearly what the Minister meant in his interview. That is what we said in the election, and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u190	Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u191	Dear Minister, I will read the Minister's statement to you. If the answer you say is true, it covers me. Note: "We are completing our design for an integrated system of urgent pre-private care, which includes the segregation of TPAs by hospitals and their interconnection with the JEPY-ESAB". I do not think I had this feeling for no reason, namely that here we are talking about a functional administrative cut-off from the public hospital. Let me know if that really is not the case, because I have sincerely looked into the New Democracy programme you have recommended. It doesn't even exist in the program. There is a reference that says 'directly functional interconnection with the EAW'. Obviously, that is what we agree with. We agree. Two rings are emergency premeditated care and emergency hospital care. If we agree, then, that it is not a question, then, firstly, of moving quickly into common, single protocols, uniform targeting, uniform registration and clear jurisdiction of specialist doctors who have already been appointed in TENs. A number of crises still pending in the 6th RCD must be completed, so that those who have not been recruited can also be recruited. They must be reopened, because - be careful - we also had a problem in this notice. We had about a hundred and fifty seats, which were ‘blessed’. Make a commitment to reopen these posts. We may be thinking about whether it could be to the next degree as an incentive in cases where we have a hospital where no one has gone, or instead of a second one. It will be an increased incentive to attract doctors to appropriate specialties. We must strengthen targeted and nursing staff, which must of course be specific. Also, they need to increase, in collaboration with the Scientific Society of Emergency Medicine, training centres so that more doctors can get specialization, without having to move from the living and working places. There must also be - and this is a crucial and difficult issue and we are waiting for a proposal, as you have assigned it to a committee - a proposal to reform the newspaper model in the Attica basin, because this is a crucial thing and we need to discuss it. Of course, there was. We also put together a working party, with the cooperation of the 1st and 2nd EAEC, the EMCDDA. There was a draft, and I imagine that on that basis you will be moving too. We need to discuss how we are really going to equalise the on-call burden to the Lekanopedian hospitals, where today this distribution is really unequal, because there are hospitals that are being pushed too hard by on-call and troubled by the world. The scientific firm has set, for example, that the maximization of the incidents that can be handled decently in a on-call department is five hundred people. "Evangelism", "Atticon", "General State" is pressed with a three-fold load at the time of on-call time, and this naturally creates stress on staff, civil suffering and long waiting times etc. Also, one final and important point is that you must strengthen what we started, but we did not have time to develop too much, that is to say to enter urban health centres in 24-hour on-call. We've only done it in Athens at the Alexandra Health Center. It has to be multiplied by a geographical spread across the Levanopod. The EMCDDA must be aware and know that cases of mild related symptomology may also be dealt with there and naturally have the appropriate laboratory support to manage them. So we'll slowly start reducing the burden and pressure on the large hospitals. I think that's what we're gonna need in the next phase of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Blonde. Minister, please respond briefly, because you are probably in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u193	Yes, I will be brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u194	I say this because we had to hand over the Chamber at 12 noon, because there is the committee that has to meet. I would therefore ask you to be warm in order to shorten your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u195	At the 6th PLENARY SESSION, Mr President, no overtime and overtime have been paid to staff since December.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u196	Yes, there is legislation on this, Mr Polakis. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I think we agree and insist once again that the Minister's statement may have been misinterpreted. We're not going to discover the wheel, nor did we run for election to discover it. The best practices of foreigners we want to apply them in our country. In all hospitals and modern health systems, emergency departments have them in hospitals which are separate parts. So I want to be clear that this isn't about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u197	We must be concerned, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u198	No, don't worry. With us not to worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u199	No 'white check'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u200	As far as the educational centres are concerned, we have moved on and on the barren positions we are in the process of re-enlargement. All this will go ahead. As far as the on-call system is concerned, we are indeed considering a more improved inauguration system, so that we have a rational distribution of the incidents in Athens - we do it for the area of Thessaloniki - so that there is no crowding and that hospitals are normally working. We also want to strengthen the system of sorting these incidents, because it is very important for an emergency department to operate. Thank you, too, for making reference to the Primary Health Care, because it is a very important arm of the health system that can actually give breath to hospitals and non-paid cases, which are currently coming to hospitals on the day of the on-call, to be treated at primary level. Indeed, Alexandra’s Health Center operates 24/7. There was a design for the primary school by L.4238/2014 to operate other twenty-four-four-four inspection centers to cover the entire Lefkade. This remains in our planning and we will move on. We also have the experience with the coronary now and we have certain plans. I also told you about the 'big' position in the emergency department, which is moving on. Let me note one more thing. We have given very clear instructions to our hospitals that doctors who were hired for emergencies must remain in emergencies and not go to clinics. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u201	We continue with the fourth under number 689/11-5-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Sports and Culture, on the subject: "State funding for sports federations and sports infrastructures". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Warm request not to open any further issues, because we are pressing for the operation of the Chamber. To be within the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Within the subject, at least I will be. Show the relative tolerance as well as the others. Minister, after two months of restrictive measures due to the coronary, what is important is the first steps towards the gradual resumption of sports activities. Your announcements, however, do not reassurance. They are general guidance for seafarers, without substantial support for sports clubs and federations. Beyond the protection and hygiene measures, for which no one disagrees, the government systematically cry out of anxiety and the proposals put forward by sporters for the next day. Instead of direct and substantial measures to restart sport in our country that express tens of thousands of clubs, associations, federations, hundreds of thousands of athletes, coaches, managers, sports scientists, referees, judges, other workers, you are obsessed with the register of sports operators and the elections of federations in the autumn. You're squeezing about other things, that is. There are too many questions about your intentions and goals at this stage, that of emergency needs. The unions are at risk of locking in conditions of unprecedented economic suffocation, which makes their viability impossible for the rest of the year. They can neither maintain any offices nor satisfy their functional needs. Athletes, coaches, auxiliary staff, fighting and working in small categories, which are neither OEM nor OEM, but operate as such, are literally in the air. The shortfall in revenue has been zeroed, people lose jobs and income, owe them wages and live in loan. To date there is no information about state funding, nor about disbursing the second instalment in May and the exceptional grant by the General Secretariat of Sports, which is essential for their re-launching and preparation. You have also given no plans for the integration of sports infrastructures into financial programmes such as the one under the code name 'Antonis Tritsis'. And while all this is still pending, you are relegating the responsibility for the continuation or non-response of the championships to the organizers and federations. From where and until where do they have to take responsibility? The state responsibility where is it? Everyone else has responsibilities except the government? So, just instruction to sailors? The decision must be the sole responsibility and responsibility of the competent health bodies and the government, who are aware of the development of the pandemic in the country. So we ask you, Minister, what immediate measures will you take to relaunch sports activities? This concerns the adequate and free allocation by the state of personal protection, diagnostic tests for all sports centres, official Greek championships, referees, staff of racing, athletes and coaches of national teams. Secondly, announce state funding that meets the real needs and start the next phase 2020-2021, without cuts from the productive track, the allocation of the second instalment of May and the exceptional financial support of associations from the General Secretariat of Sports, the freezing of their debts for 2020 in order to start without problems, the exemption of associations from the payment of money for the use of swimming pools, whether those belong to the General Secretariat of Sports or to the municipalities, at least by the end of 2020. Finally, in relation to the sports infrastructure projects, financial resources of the State should be provided for the construction, maintenance and operation of either through the Public Investment Programme or through the "Antonis Tritsis" programme that replaced the "PHILDIMOS". I would like to point out to you this: the CEN - you know - has already tabled comprehensive proposals for the Olympic Village. There are problems in Attica infrastructure, regional, local needs, modernisation of infrastructure, swimming pools. In Crete - you know them very well - the new swimming pool that must definitely take place in Heraklion, the closed in Chania, which has been ruined since 2004, which has not been the same as the open one, the national stadiums in Heraklion, Chania. Also, facilities in Keratini, the closed in Paiania, Katsandzoglio. Long list. So give concrete answers, so that it can be relaunched as it should be. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u203	Thank you to MP Heraklion and I ask the Minister from Heraklion to take the floor. He has his honorary honor, and the questioner and the respondent are MPs of Heraklion! Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer your colleague from Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u204	I thank Mr Syntagakis, because he really gives me the opportunity to have a productive debate, which I always pursue, to be honest. I will reply to most of you - and I do, anyway - questions that you ask, because we have taken a very effective framework of measures to protect sport in our country, my dear Mr Syntagakis, without that means that we cannot do better and more. That is why we are working in this direction every day. It is true that since 4 May our country has entered a new reality. In unprecedented circumstances, we are all called upon to leave the house and actively contribute to the resumption of our country's social and economic activity. Our biggest bet is to get our lives back. The same big bet, my dear colleague, is facing the sports family in our country. That is why we have drawn up a series of policies as a whole for sport in Greece. I'm going straight to the point, and I'm answering. With regard to your question about state funding for sports federations, I would like to inform you that the first instalment has already been paid to all federations of EUR 8.7 million. Payments started in February and have been completed. For the financial support of the sports federations, we are making use of the 'Chillos' programme, on which we have already carried out an assessment of all federations with absolutely measurable and objective elements and in which all the sports federations of our country have agreed. But we recognise the difficult economic situation in which sports federations are found because of the pandemic. That is why we are planning in the middle of the summer - and we probably also have the second instalment, with which around 90% of the total allocated grant for the sports federations in Greece, which is a grant totalling about EUR 18 million, but if the updated budgets are submitted for them, which will certainly have reduced costs due to the cancellation of many events and the reduction of revenues at the same time for several large federations. With regard to the second question on sports infrastructure, Mr Synergyakis, we have really shown great interest in this area and this is because the quality of sports infrastructure is linked to the quality of sport and the safety of the whole of the facilities. Initially, for the first time, we are implementing programmes with the OAED. We amplify the staff - I start from what you are interested in directly - of our facilities by 200 forty-nine people and another three hundred fifty trainers, available in a hundred forty-seven municipalities of our country. The project is expected to start in the next few days from the Ministry of Labour. Furthermore - you have asked me for this - as regards the "Philodimos" programme of the Ministry of Interior, from 1 August 2019 until the end of the program, we have given the necessary approval as the Ministry of Sports for projects in sports facilities in a hundred and fifty two municipalities in Greece, which will upgrade Greece's sporting map. However, we are in constant consultation with both the members of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. In this context, we are also considering the development of other innovative programmes, such as Antonis Tritsis, which you quite rightly mentioned. As we speak of the sports map, I inform you that, in cooperation with the CEDE and the President of Mrs Papastergiou, the digital platform for sports infrastructure is first set up in Greece under the name of "POLOPOS". On this platform, which is at a final stage and we hope in about twenty days or one month's time that the municipalities are now working and loading their infrastructure, all of the country's sports facilities will be recorded. There's nowhere today. Thanks to the platform described to you both by the municipalities concerned and by each citizen, they will receive useful information on each installation, such as sports carried out within them, their operating hours, their degree of functionality, the degree of progress of the facilities with regard to their licensing if they are unfinished, but also a number of other decisions that will be recorded and in the knowledge of the Ministry of Sports and the other relevant ministries involved in these issues. Furthermore, by the end of 2019, we had two hundred and seventy-two active projects in the Public Investment Programme of the General Secretariat of Sports, amounting to EUR 114,4 million, and so far, for 2020, we have nineteen projects to join the Public Investment Programme, amounting to EUR 3,6 million. We also have six static studies for our national sports centres of around EUR 900,000. With regard to your question about the strengthening of amateur associations - you have given him great weight, you have touched our sensitive point, Mr Synergyaki - we know well - and you - that amateur sport is a key pillar of social activity. It is necessary to support it because it must continue to perform its important role, the important task it has. That is why we have taken lightning care of the integration of sports clubs into the extra SAR for the support measures announced by the government at the start of the quarantine. We have prepared a framework with direct and indirect measures to strengthen amateur sports clubs. In order to achieve the necessary transparency, we have moved rapidly towards the creation of a Register of Sport Sports Operators for the first time in the history of the General Secretariat of Sports. The Sports Agencies Register will be electronically captured in the free sports environment, where all of this will be on a platform. This is, therefore, a formal record of the entire sports clubs in Greece. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In this way, my dear fellow Member, we will have a clear knowledge of all the sports clubs that have received the special athletic recognition from the General Secretariat of Sports, while we will be able to effectively meet their needs, because today we are talking about estimated and certainly - let me tell you - it will be a safe source of information for thousands of parents and also athletes. For the information of the National Representation, I should just like to say a few facts that will definitely be of interest to you. To move on to the registries, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u205	Minister, will you say anything to your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I shall conclude with this. We won from thirteen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u207	Yes, but you have exceeded time, and the Chamber must be evacuated to get the committee started, for which my colleagues have already come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, it has raised dozens of questions and I am trying to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u209	Do me a favor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u210	On 13 April, then, Mr Synergyaki, we asked the forty-eight sports federations for updated information from their associations - members and associations within the framework of the necessary preparatory actions for the establishment and operation of the Electronic Register of Sports Bodies. To date, thirty-four federations have responded and fourteen have not responded or requested a credit for the time allocated to them. We now have about five thousand registered clubs, and we believe that they may be so much more and because, on the basis of our sporting family, clubs must be binding on the sports federations - and I am sure you agree that - to prevent state support, the platform for the preparatory phase of registration of all amateur sports clubs in the country, which have the special athletic recognition, will be put into effect on Monday 18 May of the General Sports Secretariat's site. As you can see, information on the registration of each of the associations will be accessible to everyone and in the light of the federal elections that will take place in the autumn. At the same time, the administrations - and I conclude with this - of sports centres supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports are ready to go ahead with brave financial facilities for all sports clubs and thousands of amateur athletes. We also hope that this will happen to sports centres supervised by municipalities and regions. Our aim - and I am ending - is to follow immediately after the Sports Register, which also has not existed in Greece for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u211	Before I give you the floor, Mr Synthyriakis, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 the criminal responsibility of the Ministers, as is the case on 14-5-2020: ‘Priminal courtesy against the former Minister of Finance, Ioannis Varoufakis’. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor, but I would like to ask you as soon as possible, because both you and, above all, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u212	We're the last ones anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u213	You turned the question into a question. You have the floor, but do me a favor. You're the last ones, but you see that you had to be at 12:00...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u214	Minister, obviously, this is your role. You want to present an idyllic picture of the government's work in the field of sport, as the present government generally does and all governments do. It is, however, in full, but in complete resentment with what the sporting world calls and claims. We do not underestimate the hygiene protocols and the means of protection for the restarting of sport, to wake up from it, but even there is - to say so - sufficient hypocrisy. We, when we say protection measures, do not only mean the directives to seafarers or the million euro party to 'days' from television advertising. We mean, above all, personal protection instruments and the question is this: has the General Secretariat of Sport ensured that it provides adequate and free personal protection? I am referring to gloves, masks, antiseptics, that is, to elementary sports spaces. Oh, no. Let's go down. You need to get in position for the next day, with union relief measures, athletes, coaches for their hired, extraordinary allowances, maintenance of facilities. How else will the start be? You spoke about state funding. In May the second one had to be given. Why are you going in the middle of summer? In fact, not all, when we know that state funding is very low because of a ten-year capitalist crisis, which has been burdened by workers, by sports clubs and by workers' bodies. Restart means training, struggles, preparation, sanitation protocols that cost, transportation of athletes to and from their homes. To talk about epidemiological protection, it now requires not a coach to transport athletes, but two and three, to prevent them from being conspired during their movement. Relaunching requires adequate and effective measures, and these are costly. So far, all governments have been covering behind sponsorships - how nice! - which, of course, did not meet the real needs. You have shown as a solution the grants will then be cut off. Today, the grandchildren - let me express them - 'we are making them with light jumps'. In the smaller clubs the small donors, usually small professionals, have now been hit with the pandemic, and most likely with the upcoming capitalist crisis, which will crush them. All of this is an answer to them, but also to you, who excavated the benefactors of sport. Where are all these people today? Sport doesn't sell now, because it just doesn't have any events, the Olympic Games. Suddenly, sport has stopped being a supreme commodity, a cell club and the athlete model. That's what we heard from the sponsors, when you crowned them, made them statues and rewarded them. So the question arises: Will you give emergency funding here and now to all sports, to every sport that was active in the year that passed? How long it will be so that they can organise their activities. Is the disbursement of the second instalment due, like we said? On the contrary, because you have been particularly seated in the Register of Sports Bodies, I am pleased that you have been particularly seated on this and, indeed, giving a dimension of digitalised services to sport in an effort - that is not what you said directly - which is the essence of collecting lists with the names of members of clubs. Why are you asking for members' names? No legislation, neither Law 2725/1999 nor Law 3473/2016 provides the Secretariat-General to request lists of union members. It's for registration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u215	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u216	You've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u217	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u218	You said it, of course. And you said it today in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u219	You're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u220	You said that. Listen, there is a record of members of the boards of directors, AMCA, AMM etc., but not of the members of the clubs. Besides, the supervision and control of unions, Mr Minister, are exercised by the regions. Only associations and federations are supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports. And I'll tell you straight away: with a record of many goals. That is our view. What are these targets? Firstly, you are looking for ways and reasons for new cuts in grants to clubs, under the pretext of non-sport recognition. Here is the new crisis, which will once again be caused by clubs, athletes, parents to put their hands in the pocket, because new cuts mean that the costs will be borne by the athletes. Second, it's a freckle. We say this to you, it is a fresco against standard sketch of the trade unions and the controlled electronic vote introduced by SYRIZA and your own government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u221	To conclude, Mr Synonymakis, because in the last question we have exceeded every tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. But Aslanides did this during the junta when he was uploading and downloading administrations. That is what you are going to introduce now as a government. The order you want to put blood and blood donations, that's what I think you should say somewhere else. It is clear that you are seeking full control. And thirdly, to form a database for the control of associations under the threat of sport recognition: “Are you ours? You're getting sporting recognition. Aren't you one of us? You don't get sporting recognition."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u223	Close, Mr. Synchronous. You have a timely question and not a question. We need to evacuate the Chamber to meet the committee and you need to close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u224	I would therefore remind the Minister of all the questions that we asked about the re-start and concern the athletes, parents and workers. That's what you should answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u225	Minister, you have the floor for your answer, of course, typically for three minutes, but when these questions are asked, it is good not to leave blanks. However, take care as much as possible to make it easier for me and for our colleagues who are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. The truth is, Mr. Synthrakis has turned me back years on the student benches when the world has evolved and they have remained stable in the same wagon. You're deeply at night, gentlemen of the JRC and Mr. Syntagakis, because other things I said, but others wrote you and others you say. It is obvious that you are completely inconsistent. And I'm sorry about that because you're extremely sympathetic to me. I didn't say it was an idyllic scenery. Where did you hear that? I barely said that sport needs more work and that is why we are working. However, you will allow me to present the work we have done and to be judged for it. I didn't say anything, but no place for union membership. Where did you hear that? Lie! Please, too much seriousness and responsibility on your part. We said'member register' that exists - by the way - in all the European states except Greece. We do not know, in other words, in Greece how many sports clubs we have that have or do not have the athletic recognition, so that many parents and thousands of athletes are naturally not aware of all this. You also asked me if we have sent health material. You're indiscreet again. That's too bad! Mr Synthriakis, I would like to inform you that it has already been sent, today, to all the sports centres of the General Secretariat of Sports and in particular: fifteen thousand masks, fifteen thousand gloves, seven hundred litres of antiseptics and a number of other materials that have been needed. Whatever else it takes, we're here to feed them. You're deeply sleepy, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u227	Tell us how many thousands of unions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u228	I would now like to point out to the National Representation that during the period of our country's consistent and responsible attitude it is the result of a comprehensive effort. Part of this overall effort is the attitude and supply of the sporting family throughout this period. The tough battle with the coronary is still not over, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary to show great maturity, attention, responsibility, but also the main, individual responsibility, which escapes you. It is undeniable that our government, with Prime Minister Mitsotakis, has dealt perfectly with the first wave of the coronary. He immediately took difficult measures, but necessary. It protected all citizens, worked wisely and today, and all of us, that is, - the credit from the world leadership and the medical community for its operations. For the first time, the sporting family, Mr. Colleague, is united over and above separating lines that you are trying to cultivate in every way failed. And outside the performance hunt, all the sports family expressed a message of optimism, solidarity and offering to society as a whole. Today we are going gradually, carefully and according to epidemiological data. That is why we planned to relaunch sport gradually, step by step. Extreme reference has been made in a previous year to accredited journalists, and of course also to the Ministry of Health Press Office, together with Mr. Tsiodra and Mr. Chardalia. I would just briefly like to say: we have set up - and operates perfectly - a Health Scientific Committee for Sport in cooperation with the EGE, which is drawing up dynamic health protocols that are updated in line with developments, international experience and scientific data on safe operation and respect for the hygiene rules in the re-start of sport. We have already prepared and sent to all administrations, all federations of sports clubs that opened to accept athletes, safe exercise instructions in organised sports spaces, such as a form of medical historian and athlete, a form of medical historian technical staff, disinfection protocols. We have already sent to the sports centres in our country since the first day of reopening, whether in municipality or in the Sports Secretariat-General, posters to the health service. These are three different posters, one for athletes, one for coaches and technical staff and one for administrations and the staff of the facilities. With the important work, as I said before, of the Health Committee, the relaunching of sport is gradually taking place. In the first week it included only open sports spaces, leading athletes, some low-risk sports, few groups of football players of Super League 1. And the second week, ending today, we enlarged athletes to the top and closed gyms and swimming pools added other athletes from other groups. Paralympians came in, too. Sportsmen were also allowed to play low-risk sports. From next week now, Monday - step by step, according to the mandates of the Ministry of Health specialists and the health protocols of the Scientific Committee of the General Secretariat of Sports, we will have athletes of all clubs from thirteen years old and over, individual training in open and closed facilities, not group training, but, yes, in ball training. Swimming open and closed. Quantitative, however, we will have limitations in open large sports spaces up to eighty people and open and closed small sports spaces, basket fields, for example, volleyball one person per thirty square meters. Quantitative restrictions also on swimming pools, penthouses, triantars, twenty-five per route. Priority is given to the candidates of the BSE Schools, the Military and Police Schools, the Port and the Firefighting. It is clear to everyone that restarting sports activities will be behind closed doors. In any case, when each sport will start, the organizer decides on the basis of the scientists' suggestions. As far as the development of sport as a whole is concerned, we are taking a step - step and always respecting the expert advice. It is unprecedented that at present the political leadership and the scientific community of our country are fully in harmony. We won't ruin this recipe for anyone no matter how much it's raped. Above all, it is the health of athletes, the health of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. They were discussed and answered in comfort. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-15-S1-commons.u230	With the agreement of the House at 12.48 p.m., the sitting is closed for Monday, May 18, 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
