ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 11 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 648/30-4-2020, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Government gives the giftary shot to the people of culture". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 644/28-4-2020 topical question of the MEP Laurel of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelias Ligoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Abstract recognition of OTA officials on the front line". 3. The Question No 653/4-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthakis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Aid for temporary benefits for workers in local administration". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sunday Malama to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Halkidiki tourist economy is struggling for the next day." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 657/4-5-2020 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Privatization of the hill by an anonymous OTA company in breach of law". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 4922/13-2020 by MP Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras (Group) Augeris to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Protection against the coronary of vulnerable economic groups". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that all topical questions will be discussed today, seven figures. Let me make a statement to this House: The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Improvement of immigration legislation, amendment of provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A'169), 4375/2016 (A 51), 4251/2014 (A 1980) and other provisions’. Before we proceed to the debate on the first topical question, let me make a brief reference. Some time ago, we were informed that the former Minister of Health, Dimitris Kremastinos, left life. We would like to express our condolences, both to his family and to the party that has served for so many years. Also, to express our condolences to the loss of former New Democracy MP Evros, Lyberakidis, who a few days ago left life. We express our condolences to his family and his party. The first question will be discussed, as we said, under number 647/30-4-2020, in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis, on the subject: "The course of the procedures for the construction of the new Judge in Edessa". The Minister of Justice will answer Mr. Constantine Tsiara. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, really want to express my grief and grief for the loss of my dear colleague and friend Dimitris Cremastinos. My condolences to his wife and KINAL. Minister, you are aware that the building of the Court of Justice of Edessa, which is judged to be necessary, because of the horrendous conditions under which justice is given to the rented and inappropriate building, where judicial services are housed in the capital of Pella, has its own history which consists of a set of actions which I have long sought, always in cooperation with the co-legislative Ministries of Justice and Infrastructure and Transport and which I have been following for many years. All started in January 2017, with a visit I made to your predecessor, Mr. Kontonis, where the feasibility and necessity of building the new Grand National and also to the Special Secretary of the PPP Mr. Manzoufas, who examined the possibility of doing so - the building - through PPP. Then the political will of the political leadership was sealed with the self-determination - a visit by Mr. Kontonis to Edessa, the property regime was cleared in the next few months, namely in June of the same year as the concession of the 1⁄2 indivisible plot on which the Court of Justice of Edessa is about to erect, with an overall area of about two thousand square meters from the Ministry of Finance to the FYROM. The remaining half were already owned by the HFF by a private expropriation. A financial advisor to prepare a dossier for the public-private partnership was then examined and recruited by the Ministry of Justice. This premeditation study - because this is what this is about - was presented with a second visit by Mr. Kontonis to Edessa in June 2018, where, in fact, it was announced that the total budget is about EUR 22 million, about EUR 8.130,000 for the construction of the project and the remaining EUR 13 million for the maintenance costs for the remaining thirty years. The then Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Spirtzi was assigned the project to the General Secretariat of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of Building Infrastructure was entrusted with the task. Prefabricated, preparatory studies were carried out to compile the geological study, i.e. they were carried out in the field, excavations and activities on the plot where it is to be erected. He was hired by the same Directorate-General, both economist and technician, as well as a legal counsellor for preparing now the tender for the public-private partnership to build this project and a large meeting took place on 30 May 2019, i.e. about a year before, with my presence in the PPP Special Secretariat, in the presence of the Special Secretary and all the relevant Ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u3	Please finish, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u4	There was indeed a request for this project to be submitted to the Interministerial PPP Committee. Mr Spirtzi was lodged on 6 June 2019 with the request for the PPP - which was expected to take place in the next few days - but he did not have time to conclude, because the elections were announced. With this, Minister, I would like to tell you that this is an absolutely mature project. And you know, this was also confirmed at a meeting that we had together on 19-9-2019, where you assured me that the state has continued and is then going to make an application to the Interministerial PPP Committee, but that never happened. So what I would like to ask you is when you intend to submit the request for this project to the Interministerial PPP Committee and what is the timetable for the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u5	Good. The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr. Tsiaras. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by expressing my grief for the loss of Dimitris Kremastinos, a man with whom we have been close for many years to the Greek Parliament. I think that with his spirit and his overall presence he also honoured, of course, the party with which he was dominating but much more he gave a very specific example of a political man, both in the Dodecanese and throughout the Greek territory. I think that all of us will remember him with the most positive thoughts and the most positive memories and it is a pity that in this difficult period of pandemic a man who served medical science in the highest positions of the academic community is being lost in this way. As far as the question is concerned, my colleague, I imagine you are aware - before I go to the essence of the answer to your question - that none of us are pleased with the situation in the building infrastructures in the area of justice. We all believe that justice is needed to function seriously, it needs comfortable, it needs - if you like - infrastructures that will respond to a modern social reality. And I want to assure you that since the first moment I have been in the position of the Minister of Justice, one of the first topics I have been concerned with, it is how we could proceed with upgrading the existing infrastructure, but of course also in the construction of new infrastructure, where necessary. From the first moment, as much as the Deputy Minister and the Secretary General of the Ministry have been in almost all the lengths and backs of Greece, we have visited you - I would say - most of the building infrastructure of the Ministry of Justice, most of the courts, in order to have a personal view. You've dealt with the matter. You know that very well, there is no doubt about it. And together we had a previous communication on this matter. This whole case now has a 'complex' - within an introductory procedure - in order to implement it, because the implementation body - which is the CIS - is part of the Ministry of Infrastructure does not belong to the Ministry of Justice. Of course, I will overcome the fact that the SYRIZA government has already made sure that the SYRIZA is weakened, so that it cannot complete and proceed with projects, as I might be able to overcome the fact that if things were so mature, as you mentioned earlier, the project would probably already have to be carried out and I will tell you that what concerns the Ministry of Justice is actually the answer to two specific questions: One is the property of the building floor and the other the financing of the project. For the sake of ownership, therefore, I would like to inform you, because all the other things you have said, and I do not want to repeat the same, that with my document to the FIFG I have asked for a decision to be taken free of charge to grant the full right to use the land on which the new Edessa Judicial Palace is to be erected for a period of thirty years, in accordance with the provisions of Law 3389/2005. Indeed, it is true - and I say this in all honesty - that perhaps at the next meeting of the FAO, but procedures have been stopped because of the coronary pandemic. You know there's a suspension of procedures. As to why we have come to ask now, I can answer it during my secondary speech, which, of course, will have a very specific reference to the financing of the project, as well as to the deficit of a strategy that has not, over the last period, been able to proceed almost with a legal palace on the ground. This is also a matter of the Iraqi Judicial Palace. In fact, I have also answered a relevant timely question from Mr Kegeroglu, who is likely to be in the Chamber during the parliamentary procedure. But I would like to make it clear to you - and I shall say in my dynamism too - that we have essentially organised a very specific strategy for the implementation of all the projects that need to be carried out and developed with a significant degree of priority, at least as far as the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u8	Minister, despite the fact that you admitted the maturity of the project, not only today, but also the previous meeting that we had seven months ago, where you have reached the same conclusion today, you are going back to me here today. I was expecting you to tell me when the application, which is your responsibility, is going to the Interministerial PPP Committee, and you returned me to something that I did not ask with my application, you returned me to the land ownership status, which has been completed since June 2017. I was expecting you to tell me other things today. I was expecting you to tell me that we are ready, as I expected you to set me for the next period of time a timetable for when we are going to take it to the Interministerial PPP committee, which could not be held in 2019 for a few days because, as I said before, elections were called. Your part refers to the statement by the FIFG in any case, as the Ministry of Finance, I say it now, on the overall financing of the project. That's not why you told me anything specific. However, it is not a question of financing the project. There has been a series of actions here, a series of detailed actions, which I do not want to go into and analyse again, which have made this project ready to enter the PPPs. From there on, I have heard various excuses from you and your colleagues in the Ministry of Infrastructure - and I shall mention this again - one of which was that it was not appropriate to include the two Judges - here is Mr Kegeroglu - Edessa and Heraklion in the same PPP procedure. But, Minister, let me say that what was chosen by the previous SYRIZA government was now precisely to make the project more attractive to the potential contractor, because the project budget of 23 million, which is just for Edessa, is going up with the Hercules Justice House to 75 million, which makes the work more attractive for any potential investor. The cheap excuses I have heard, such as supposedly away from the two construction sites, cannot stand here, Mr Minister, because the candidate contractors are large companies which, as you can see, will not carry their staff from one construction site to another. From there on, if you consider, in any event, that the works for the two judicial palaces have been away from one another, you can well, Mr Minister, include one also mature work in the same region, the Yannitsa Judiciary, which has been very mature for many years, has an implementation study since 2006, has a guaranteed plot, a municipal area of about three and a half thousand acres, a municipality which has already been allocated to the FIFG and has been drafted and, in order to provide a specific financial study for its integration into the PPP process. So if you think that the two construction sites are far away, please, please, please very much, the two court buildings that are in the same district, so that the company that is supposed to take over, as well as the staff, is not troubled. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, it is interesting that you yourself said the truth more or less earlier. Of course, I understand that I would do the same. When a Member claims a work for his place, he must do so with the warmth, pressure and interest that his fellow citizens have always played. However, I repeat that you yourself told the truth. Really, just tell me how sensible it is to plan a joint PPP project with the previous government, one of which is in Heraklion, Crete, and the other construction in northern Greece, in Edessa? Where is this logic found? Where do you answer her? I ask you to understand, since you have gone so far and expressed your indignation and all these extremities!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u11	All right, put us in the Yannitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u12	We have seen from the start that these projects cannot be done in the sense that you seem to have planned them. And I do not believe that any of the major companies, of which one could be a contractor, could show a serious interest in moving towards the maintenance of two projects located in the two different parts of Greece. That is why we have tried from the very first moment through the CFP, which is now being reorganised, to organise a strategy that dictates, on the one hand, the realisation of projects and, on the other, the realisation of the needs that exist throughout Greece. In fact, at the beginning of March, just before we entered the general quarantine because of the coronary, we held a large meeting at the Ministry of Justice in the presence of the Secretary-General of the PPP, who had a more general knowledge of all of them, but also of course of the CFP, and we tried to organise a strategy on the basis of the second thought that, in order to be able to implement the projects, we must have a geographical unity. If they have no geographical unit, they cannot be implemented. And we will, unfortunately, be trapped in the tide of time, without being able to implement all of what is seen in the planning that can be done to a very large extent. From there on, the answer to the cost of the project must be aware that it came to us only in March, the 8.1 million to which you referred and which concerned when the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure would send us the project budget. We have said from the outset that all these projects will proceed. And they will progress at a much faster rate than the recent past, although I do not think that in the recent past there was a record of rhythm, but this is another debate. And, of course, it is something that you will see very soon through a very specific strategy for practical integration of projects by geographical region of Greece, because only in this way can there really be interest in any contractor on the one hand but also serious strategic planning on the other side of the Greek state. And I say this because I imagine that it is not a matter of confrontation between us, but a matter of common sense. In common sense, we must address every time we want to solve projects, analyse issues and problems and move on to projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So, at the moment, there is a way - and this is something I can tell you - a map design for projects in the field of justice in northern Greece, in central Macedonia, including the work to which you refer, for projects to be carried out in Central Greece, from Fthiotisa to Magnesia and Larissa and the Trikala, as well as for projects to be carried out in the Peloponnese, as well as for projects to be carried out in Crete. These have a degree of maturity, which I must say from the step taken by the Greek Parliament. We are very close to incorporating a step-by-step and stage-by-step projects from them in the practically ministerial committee on public-private cofinancing projects and I think that in the next period, very soon, you will see decisions being announced, through the most official expression of the Greek state, proving that the era we were just planning, saying and promising, has been replaced by another practice and by another concept in which the projects are going ahead, the projects are made and visible in the eyes of the Greek citizens, are visible in the eyes of Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked the House for the floor to express my personal grief, but also the grief of our entire party for the loss of our dear friend and partner, the fighter of democracy and a burning patriot. Of course, as you said, Dimitris Cremastinos was a brilliant scientist and research and education and his work has helped science, country and the whole world. At the same time, I would point out that it was the man who, from the position of the Minister of Health, supported the EKA, the National Health System in general, went ahead with the creation of the OKANA and, above all, today - has introduced telemedicine, which, on the basis of today's data and new risks, is really a need to protect people's health and life. In this context, I would again like to express our grief for the loss of our dear friend and partner, who was also Vice-President of the House in the previous parliamentary term and honoured our policy in general and our resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u16	Good, Mr. Kegeroglu. We continue with the second question under number 658/4-25-2020 of the first Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Indirect redundancies in ELTA and TRAINOSE in the midst of a pandemic of the COVID -19 koron.” The current question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know, and you yourself have declared it, and you have repeatedly said that there are no redundancies at present, or redundancies are not lawful or redundancies are stopped. You have also declared this institutionally, of course, also written in legislative acts. Unfortunately, however, at the same time - and you know it very well - there are phenomena of various employers and the worst is that they are government authorities or employers who implement public services and we have complaints of contracts of employment indirect, in the sense that there are no renewal contracts. When? A critical period in the middle of a pandemic. In particular, we are talking about complaints concerning the ELTAs which, despite the increased obligations for the postal and courier sector, seventy ELTA workers - from the five hundred to twenty who were hired via IASA, through specific procedures and by two months' contracts - have been found without work at the end of their contract, and on clearly opaque criteria, colleagues who were in the table of candidates from the IASA have remained in their work in lower positions than those left out. I am also referring to TRAINOSE, which is, of course, a company that is, of course, now of other interests, but is making public services - obviously and is well known to everyone - and, as the Pan-Hellenic Rail Federation denounces, despite the privileged treatment it has by the government, it is making indirect redundancies, since it does not renew contracts for seventy-five workers who have two years of experience and who work in the company enough, and of course, the most specific technical basis available to TRAINOSE. It is also expected that the company will not reinstate the 50 employees who fulfil their mandate. The landscape that has been formed in the market - you know - is too difficult, or rather tragic. It is a landscape that is intensified and the arbitrariness of employers in the private sector. Yesterday, unfortunately, I was informed of a worker who was on leave and told her "look, but you won't be paid because you get the money". On this subject too, I would like you to step up efforts with the work inspections in order to carry out checks, because unfortunately we are observing this arbitrary nature, which - despite the humanity that we all have to show - is blooming. So I ask you what initiatives you intend to take for both ELTA and TRAINOSE, Minister, and what the government's plan is to avoid such developments and prevent such phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, thank you very much. I, too, would like to present to my colleagues and to the House my warmest condolences for the loss of my chosen colleague Dimitris Kremastinos, a man whom I personally knew - together we fought on the common front of defending the island policy - a man who honoured both science and politics with his morality. I therefore give my warmest condolences to KINAL, but above all to his family. Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to begin - in the context of the question which you have tabled - from the last one you have put, outside the institutional framework of the question, in cases of abuse of companies or employers. We have said from the first moment, not just now in the crisis, that the top priority of this ministry - and we have proved it - is the safeguarding of the labour rights and labour law of our country. Abusive behaviors when detected, punished. And that is not something done by the Minister of Labour. Political direction is made by the Minister for Labour. It is something that the Labour Inspectorate is carrying out, through its own competence. I would therefore inform you - I do not now have the information with me, because I did not know - that both this critical period and the entire previous period of the Labour Inspectorate, which has been upgraded in recent years and has taken a more important role in the context of its responsibilities, but has also been enriched with human potential, imposes fines and where it receives such complaints, intervenes. I would therefore ask you, after you have kept such a complaint, to carry it to the AAR for a check on the operation in question, because the AAR is only seized on the basis of complaints. I therefore expect you, Mr Mulkiotis, to send to the APRC, to the Ministry of Labour, to name the worker's complaint and to wait immediately. Secondly, the consequences of the crisis are doubtless dramatic and multi-level - I recognise it first as the Minister of Labour - as they jeopardise the whole world economy, especially the labour market. Where we take the big blow and open wounds, it is the labour market. Since the first time, therefore, the government has reacted quickly, resolutely, responsiblely in order to safeguard social cohesion and create a web of protection for workers, businesses and the labour market, an objective which so far, and after many sacrifices and hard work, seems to have been achieved - at least in the first wave of treatment. Apart from that, however, and because you refer to work, particularly through the two questions you ask, I take the opportunity to reply to the first of them about what we have done and what we are doing for the workers. I would therefore refer to the following: Firstly, we gave special purpose permits for working parents with children in compulsory education. Secondly, an allowance of EUR 800 to nine hundred thousand beneficiaries. Thirdly, a ban on redundancies, an emergency measure which is being legislation in Greece for the first time. Fourthly, a 600 euro allowance in sixty-eight thousand scientists. Fifth, an allowance of 800 euros in six hundred thousand free professionals, fellow companies, orchestras or even individual businesses, personal enterprises. Sixth, payment of a specific payment of EUR 800 to sixty thousand beneficiaries of special charges that will be charged in the next period. Payment is scheduled from 14-5-2020 to 15-5-2020. Seventhly, payment of the special-purpose licence, as we announced a week ago after 15/6 for the months of March, April and May. Eighth, payment of the Easter gift for private sector businesses up to 30-6-2020. Ninth, a 400 euro allowance in an eighty-six thousand long-term unemployed. Tenth, an allowance of EUR 800 in two hundred and thirty thousand of regular unemployment beneficiaries for January, February, March and April. Eleventh, a 40% reduction in the rent for workers who have suspended their contract of employment. All the beneficial measures we have announced, Mr Colleague, for the firms affected have been linked to the employment conservation clause. And I'm taking this opportunity to say it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. Yesterday the results of the 'ERGANI', with the positive balance of 7,205, show two things and I say it to inform the House: we have lost thousands of jobs in tourism and foodism, we have not covered them. However, the part concerning the existing economy - labour market was taken care of and redundancies were not made. That is why the safeguard clause for jobs, as a measure by the government, worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u23	Minister, as you know, industrial relations have a dynamic. Every day we have various phenomena that we all face. In this sense, I have already mentioned this personal complaint made by a worker requesting her to go to work, even though she receives the allowance, without compromising. By the way, seafarers have also reported us that they have not received 800 euros. I say this today, although it does not refer to the question. But I say it in public. It's a complaint we've been made that seafarers haven't got 800 euros. What is strange is that companies such as ELTA and TRAINOSE, which implement public services, did not show the typical sensitivity. In these cases where labour contracts were concluded and the ELTA extended the employment contracts left seventy workers outside. We don't say the others were left. Everyone stayed well. But all seventy had to be left. And the government must intervene, you must intervene too. All seventy, because the period is difficult and unemployment cannot be replaced in any other way in these people. Of course, their complaints are that most of them were much better on the ADP list in terms of recruitment and now they see themselves out. That is why we put the issue of SAEP. This is an obvious displeasure with regard to dealing with them by a company called ELTA and performing public services. As far as TRAINOSE is concerned, you know the subject very well. There have been letters to you on several occasions and from the Panhellenic Rail Federation, which I will table in the Minutes - and from the GSEU which invites you to intervene on TRAINOSE. We are referring to specific persons who have the expertise, have the opportunity to offer where TRAINOSE is and yet refuses to have them. So what does it look like? It shows he doesn't want to have these people. So it doesn't go well? Don't go any further? Do not carry out the work he is doing? What is the reason for redundancies and non-continuation of the contract of employment and are coming out? Why would they stay out? That is what the entire Greek federation is asking for intervention. You have not given a concrete answer, Minister. That's the complaint he's got. It's a federal complaint because these people stay out. And it's not just those who stay out. But others who have been trained, have gone through schools, have done what they had to do, serve their term of office and tell them that they may not have the opportunity to take up work. The problem we are facing is specific to these two companies. We therefore ask you, Minister, to intervene and to say whether you have a plan for these cases and what is it. To be heard by the workers, to feel confident. Apart from the declarations made. They do. We don't question it. We are also contributing to this. And that's why we're here. To point out to you about the omissions or some of the issues we feel are not sufficient to improve and give this crisis another sign in general in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, thank you again for the question. You talked about the seamen, and I have to answer them. The payment of EUR 800 by seafarers was not made by the Ministry of Labour. Done at the Ministry of Shipping. Unfortunately, the seamen have not entered the 'ERGAN' system. If they had entered the "ERGANI" system the payment would have been made directly, electronically and quickly. I can't know what you're talking about. I know, however, that the government, Mr Plakkatakis as Minister, broke through, shared, recorded and paid the 800 euros to seafarers as well. If there is a specific case, I am sure Mr Plakatakis' sensitivity will welcome these cases to examine and pay them. With regard to ELTAs, I would remind you that from 1-1-2018 in accordance with the provisions of Article 197 of Law 4389/2016 as applicable, the total ownership of the Greek State of "ELTA S.A." has been transferred automatically and without consideration to the company "Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.". So we're not talking about a state company. With regard to ELTA sacked and always according to the company submitted to the Ministry of Labour, under the decision of the Board of Directors of ELTA S.A., the recruitment of seasonal staff under a fixed-term private contract of employment of a maximum duration of two months, a total of five hundred and twenty persons to meet emergencies in accordance with Article 14 of Law 2190/1994, was decided. These needs, however, have changed and new conditions have been created, thus the ELTAs redetermining their needs. In any event, you understand that the extension or renewal of seasonal staff contracts is prohibited under law and, in addition, the smooth termination of the contract at the predetermined time of its term of office is not in any way dismissal. The Government, however, by means of the Act of Legislative content FEC 84/13-2020, protected these seasonal workers as well as under Article 40(1)(a) of the Act of Legislative Content, "ELTA S.A." decided to extend for a further month the contract of staff deemed absolutely necessary for the uninterrupted provision of the postal project. Furthermore, they were also given the EUR 800 allowance as workers on suspension enjoy the benefits we have announced. Similarly, with regard to TRAINOSE on 31-12-2019, the Greek company "Conservation of Rail Rolling Material S.A.". It then recruited mainly students from the Artificial Education School with fixedterm employment contracts in the context of the provision of professional experience and the response to increased temporary needs of its technical base units. These contracts, however, expired on 30-4-2020. TRAINOSE therefore did not carry out any direct or indirect dismissal of a worker. It simply did not renew the above employment contracts for the last eight months and not, of course, for two years, as mentioned in your question. I would also remind you that TRAINOSE S.A. as a private sector company does not maintain any of the privileges it had before privatisation. In conclusion, ‘TRAINOSE S.A.’ and despite the fact that it is an undertaking affected by the pandemic, did not suspend the contract of a single worker. It continued to reward all its staff without any cutbacks and without the slightest subsidy from the state budget. In addition, although it was legally entitled to change the time of payment of the Easter gift, it did not do so and paid it to all workers on 15 to 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u26	The third will be debated under No 654/4-5-2020 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki of the Communist Party Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Support measures for workers in Theama - Akroama". Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the people who create and work in the cultural sector yesterday asked the state for immediate support measures so that they can survive and the unemployed in the sector, who were not even few before the outbreak of the pandemic. You see, with the measures announced by the Government, even after the last NSA concerning the skills of workers in the spectacle sector, they still remained and remain excluded from any support measures for thousands of workers in the industry. Unfortunately, this situation of exclusion from the support measures for thousands of people in the wider field of show and hearing does not change on the substance of yesterday's announcements of the leadership of the Ministry of Culture. Announcements full of ballots and ambiguities - intentional or not - which were heard rather like a mockery against the agony of the workers in this sector. Of course he knows the Ministry of Labour that most of these workers, actors, technicians, musicians, travellers, cashiers and so many others, calculated in 100 thousand according to the Minister of Culture's announcement, work mainly with fixed-term contracts many times even with one-day contracts. We must bear in mind, Minister, that for artistic staff most work is not so much about the performance but about the preparation of a performance, about the study, design, rehearsals and so on. This working time is usually insecure and often unpaid. Underemployment in the industry has not led most people to work once - twice a week, usually Saturday and Sunday for musicians, Mondays and Tuesdays for actors, etc. If we take all of this into account, we understand why so few of them are able to raise these fifty marks a year to take this seasonal aid which you have put in and as a precondition for the CSCE to obtain compensation for the specific purpose of EUR 800. Let this sector too, the employment of multiple employers is almost the norm. Minister, not even with the last KLA, this issue is not solved entirely and for everyone - I am talking about the work of these people to many employers - and so they have again been excluded from this special EUR 800 compensation. What are we asking? We call for all workers in the sector to receive the allowance, i.e. actors, musicians, directors, regardless of their employment relationships, that is, the first part of the eightthsari which has been paid up to the end of April and, of course, for this compensation to be renewed and this allowance for as long as the consequences of this epidemic are kept and, of course, for the workers who have many employers. To have all the unemployed in this sector, who are too many thousand, have an insurance capacity in the sector and, of course, for these workers too, for all the measures to protect the people's populations, for which our party has spoken and for which they are also calling for unions, that is to say, to protect the first home, for the non-continuation of water supplies, for telephone, electricity and for the self-employed, for exemption from the trade fee, for the payment of insurance contributions and the tax-free limit of 15. EUR 000, because there are also such self-employed people in this area, directors, producers and others. We are anxiously awaiting your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Delis for the question he raises on a crucial issue which the government finds on the same line of awareness, Mr Delis. Because the world of culture is a world which, in fact, suffers and I would say that it takes the burden of the pandemic crisis more into it than the rest of the population, due to the specific nature of the profession. I would like to say, however, that, along with the fact that I welcome your question, and with the positive satisfaction that it shows your sensitivity and interest in this matter, we welcome it as a government positive in the sense that it is a matter of time. Just yesterday, the government by the Minister of Culture, Mr. Mendoni, announced a grid of concrete coherent measures for people of culture and their support. The measures which we have announced are neither vague nor ambiguity, as you say. They are specifically targeted, spread throughout the world of culture and cover almost all of it. With honesty, bravery, sensitivity and design, the Government and the Minister of Culture itself prove that we care, we really have sensitivity and reflexively to cover this world, which is suffering together with the rest of the world because of the pandemic. So what the Minister said yesterday is that the dual aim from the outset is to keep culture active, to support creators and artists, to subsidise work and not unemployment. Immediate support measures: already in March forty-five thousand people and self-employed - you said for a hundred thousand, Mr Delis, so listen to the figures - the support measures announced by the Government, a total of EUR 35.5 million, the suspension of insurance and tax obligations, and so on. Furthermore, from 13 May and 19 May 2020, the OAED will receive EUR 800 from those who received the special allowance September-November 2019 and are not beneficiaries of the regular unemployment benefit for the first quarter of 2020. Direct support measures: Beneficiaries of the financial assistance of EUR 800 have become almost all the workers whose contracts of employment expired early before their contractual year, during the period from 1 March 2020 to 20 March 2020. From yesterday, 7 May 2020 to 10 May 2020, after a responsible declaration of employers and following the responsible statement of the workers in the ‘ERGAN’, the Ministry of Labour from 8 May 2020 to 12 May 2020, workers become beneficiaries of the financial assistance of EUR 800, payable from 14 May to 15 May 2020. New direct support measures. They shall be included and covered retroactively and the workers in the cultural area whose fixed-term contract expired early, between 15 February 2020 and 29 February 2020. They are also entitled to EUR 800 after their declaration to ‘ERGAN’. New direct support measures: those employed more than one employer in the period 15 March 2020 to 20 April 2020 are included and covered retroactively and had an average weekly of up to 30% of total hours of work. They will receive the 800 euros between 14 and 15 May 2020, after of course a statement they will make at the "ERGANI", according to the relevant circular of the Ministry of Labour. Those from 1 June 2019 to 1 March 2020 have carried out occasional work, with six days per month or fifty days in total, and will also receive 800 euros in this period. New direct support measures: special arrangements are included and covered by the Athens Concert Hall and the Travellers and Travellers - an issue that we were concerned with - by the Athens Concert Hall. New direct support measures also continue for all of the above categories and in May, totalling 24 million for employees and civil servants plus all other categories of workers in the sector. Civilian workers are included in the wider support plan for all sectors. New direct support measures: support for civil, non-profit enterprises in culture. In the Ministry of Culture’s register of cultural institutions on a special invitation, a direct grant will be made by the Ministry with 2,5m euros. I will stop here to supplement some other measures, Mr President, because time has passed in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u30	Good, Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you reiterated the announcements made yesterday by the Minister for Culture. Indeed, too much has been said, too many words have been said. The question is all that has been announced in the end how many workers in the cultural sector are involved and whether the groups that are entitled to this special compensation are being extended. According to the Minister's own words, 100 thousand are workers in this area. So far they have taken this aid for forty-five thousand and few, yes, few will be from now on, those who will also get this allowance. We don't doubt it's going to be for the Great Music travelers. And why is that, Minister? You know that very well. Because all these workers are under the radars of the record...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u33	A point which was invoked yesterday in its communication and the Minister herself, speaking of undeclared waters and of the landscape of undeclared work. We will not now open a debate on how much you, your Government, like others, have contributed to cultivating this landscape and spreading in the field of art and culture to show all its barbarism. We're not having this conversation now. The question is whether the real problem that exists can be overcome. We believe, Minister, that it is possible. And it can help you in this regard the proposal for a law tabled by our party yesterday, on May 6 - you can easily find it, it is submitted to Parliament and it is posted - which on the third page analyses very much how all the elements required by the "ERGANI" system can be drawn up, with extended, of course, criteria, so that no one stays outside this specific purpose compensation. We believe that all this philology, the theory on the part of the government about undeclared work and undeclared work, is ultimately exploited by the government, unfortunately we say. It is worthy of this landscape of undeclared work, and it is used precisely to bring 'cutters', which will fly out - it is actually done - workers who have a great need for this aid. We are talking about a EUR 800 aid given by the government for a month and a half. This support we say should be given to all these people and we explained how, with EUR 535 per month. This is the monthly ratio of EUR 800. And we say it about these people, because all these people in the area of culture were the first to stop their jobs, they have to pay - those who worked anyway of them - from February and they will, apparently, be the last to open. We do not know whether they will be able to make a cut in 2020. Most likely, they're going for 2021. We therefore say that until the consequences of this pandemic are lifted, all these people are entitled to it. In any case, I would like to say that we believe that the measures announced yesterday by the Ministry of Culture and you too are inadequate and continue to leave out of aid from the state tens of thousands of workers in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Delia, thank you. Thank you very much for your contribution to an issue that is of interest to everyone in covering and supporting the people of culture, even if you judge - in the context of democracy - that the measures we have announced and what we are taking are insufficient. Two introductory remarks: First, you spoke of a population of 100 000. I personally do not know, because of the uncharted nature of the area of people of culture and art. But I'm standing in your position for a hundred thousand. Also, the Minister for Culture said about the same number. So if we are talking about 100 thousand, 50% has been covered by the payments I mentioned. Secondly, with the announcements made by the Minister and the government yesterday, we believe that the other 50% will be covered. But look at what we announced yesterday and which are very important, as I at least assess them as a Minister of Labour to cover this population, there is something I call structural change. Many times in the pandemic appeared and weaknesses in our state's operating system have emerged that we must make use of them. This is the actual record of the people of culture who ask for it. For this reason, the top priority, structural change announced yesterday and will be taken over by the Ministry of Labour with the Ministry of Culture, is the creation of a register of artists and creators. And now there is the possibility. There is the 'ERGANIS'. Inside "ERGANI" we will record this whole world, so that from now on we will know each other personally, so that we can support them. Look, what about the employees? The employees were registered and we made 2 million payments in total because they were registered. The same record did not exist in the field of culture. So we're starting it now. Yeah, it was a weakness of years. Now we're gonna do it. We will record them in the Register of Artists and Creators and from now on they will have a name, a stamp, each artist will recognize him and we will honor him for his work and for his work. From 13 May, therefore, the platform will operate on the website ‘artandcultureprofessionals.services.gov.gr’ at ‘ERGANIS’. This is a major structural change. We're changing everything in this area. This is the first time to record the true forces of culture transparently, so that it is easier and more effective to establish political and financial tools, reduced criteria for integration into the platform, cross-check data with "ERGANI", by EFKA and FISAS. I would like to begin by saying that I can assure you that what comes from the 'ERGANI' cross-borders mentioned in the draft law you have tabled - I have heard it, welcome and pleasant if there are any ideas we can accept - this whole range will cover it, as long as it is shown that someone is in the area of culture. Development measures: EUR 15 million development package on April 2, 2020 investment in the production of short films, documentary, animation, theatrical performances, music events, visual design, gaming, digital culture. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I continue my prototype measures, Mr President, for the people who are not listening. I have already tabled a series of cultural packages. Now in dentistry I go on with the second ones. For the first time, there was an invitation to digital culture, published on 20 March 2020 and finalised on 30 April 2020 with three hundred and twenty-five requests, most of which have been invited to date by the Ministry of Culture. Granted theatre, AMKE, double the amount of grants for 2020, extension of the theatrical period 2019-2020 to 31 May 2021, extension of the theatrical period 2020-2021 to 31 December 2021. In no case will the grants be called for, even if it is not possible to perform the performances. Developmental measures: subsidised dance, doubling of the amount of grants for 2020, extension of the period 2019-2020 to 31 August 2021, extension of the period 2020-2021 to 31 December 2021, will not be requested here in any case, even if it is not possible to make the performances -, cultural producers' coupon, eighteen-month power coupon for the monitoring of cultural events in the future for those who had booked tickets to producers cancelled. In addition, social employment. A new, powerful programme of the Ministry of Labour for ten thousand people in culture amounting to 13 million euros with social and other criteria after mobilisation. Participants will receive a social labour cheque of EUR 1,000 with full insurance contributions for their employment for a period of three months, from 15 June 2020 to 15 September 2020 and for twenty-six days depending on their specificity. In addition, it is possible for the unemployed of culture to join the two "current" programmes currently in operation by the Ministry of Labour through the OAED of the eight and a half long-term unemployed and the thirty and half-and-a-half unemployed in public law municipalities and legal entities and regions with high mobilisation for the long-term unemployed, which together with the other programmes cover a total of 100 000 unemployed. Mr President, Mr Delis, certainly always an enemy of good is the best. I can assure you, however, that we are doing everything we can. We are making every effort to tackle this unprecedented who found our country to cover and protect every Greek citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u36	We continue with the first with the number 656/4-2020 topical question by Mr Sultan, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Scheduling system under Article 38 n.1892/1990 and Article 9 of the 20-3-2020 Act of Legislative Action (PPP)". Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. I too would like to express my warmest condolences to the family of my colleague Mr Cremastino and to his party. Minister, as you yourself admitted a few days ago, the future of industrial relations will be bleak and will follow thousands of redundancies. This is not my subject of the pandemic, nor is it because of it, but your plan, your policy, to put your seal - not to say the tombstone - into labour law. We saw this in your previous service at the Ministry in 2012, but we saw it and immediately after you took over the country's governance, with the downgrading of the EDP, with the abolition of the legitimate dismissal, with the abolition of the contract liability for the violation of labour relations, by the dissolution of the institution of collective bargaining, the abolition of expansion and more favourable regulation in collective labour agreements, the abolition of the right for workers to apply for arbitration. And while anyone would expect the pandemic to make you change course, what did we see? That you used it as an opportunity to re-introduce labour relations according to the BSE guidelines: half of work - half of wages, full elasticisation of labour relations, contraction of workers on the basis of BSE, relief of redundancies and, of course, abolition of the increase in the minimum wage for 2020, while at the same time double the wages of the 'golden boys' and take them to the huge amount of 8,134 euros. With regard to rotating work, it came in 2010 into labour law as a form of avoiding redundancies. What are you doing now? You have taken the rotating work of the ordinary labour law and arbitrarily gave it another, more flexible form. All workers can now only join their CAR and, if you consider them affected, enter this form of employment without any consultation. You have combined the rotating work, which is part-time, with part-time work and can therefore even be paid at EUR 150, which is less than half of the unemployment benefit. Now, workers don't know if they're fired on what compensation they're getting. I mean, if a worker is fired while he's on rotating work, what redundancies will he get? On the basis of full-time or rotating wages? And do not tell me that this is forbidden, because it is not forbidden to dismiss this worker, since the employer is obliged to keep the same number of jobs as the same contracts. In other words, he can fire a rotating worker and take another person into his place and have no effect. Also, all of this, combined with the fact that "ERGANI" is being suppressed, leads to many violations of labour rights, many complaints that come to our offices every day. And, of course, the APR does nothing at all, because it fails and cannot control the infringement before it is done, only then and on the basis of the information to be provided by the employers. Since you have not made that clear, there is a risk that we will be able to take a rotating job which will last for a very long time, as the employer who has joined the rotating job, on the basis of your PPP, then, at best, if you do not give an extension of your rotation work, will be able to enter the status of the joint labour rotation, and this will lead workers to insecurity, undignified pay and, of course, will be excluded from a number of State benefits, such as the prerogative, unemployment, insolvency, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u38	Madam Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u39	I shall be very brief, Mr President. You will tell me that with the status of rotating working under ordinary law, it could be termed rotating for eighteen months, following on from the worst of the cases. Yes, but there was only the real firms affected, not those in financial difficulty, but the firms that had closed down in areas of their activity. You ask, therefore, whether you intend to prevent the abuse of the use by employers of the successive application of the two rotational labour systems and whether you intend to make it clear that there is no presumption that the firms affected who have entered the rotating labour, on the basis of your MSF, will in future be able to join the same conditions in the future and in the rotating work of the common labour law. You are asking, in other words, what is your design and whether you will see to it that industrial relations return to the pre-university regime. It is a response that you must now give with the gradual opening up of businesses, both to employers and workers, so that they can make their decisions and make their economic planning. I hope you do not answer that there is no plan, but that you will act by seeing and doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to the SYRIZA Member that - quite different from the rest of the Members in today's Questions - I am in the unpleasant position to tell you that you are pretending, lying, cheating the world and mocking the intelligence of both the Greek people and the workers. All you're saying is an alchemy, it's lies, it's inaccurate. You've been making fun of the world, as you've been mocking him for four and a half years. And I'm explaining yesterday that ELSTAT's evidence was announced. Unemployment fell to 16% in February 2020. February 2019, 18.4%. So we dropped about two and a half points of unemployment. Isn't that a real fact? What is SYRIZA doing now, ladies and gentlemen? SYRIZA is investing through the pandemic in the world that will suffer, which is the world of work, in the unemployment that will spread and says: "It is not the pandemic that is the policy of the government." This is called hunger and hypocrisy. The Communist Party doesn't do that either. SYRIZA's colleague is a planned SYRIZA project that wants to invest, as in 2015 and 2014, in the squares and in the Constitution with the memorandum, a repetition of itself. This is SYRIZA, a hypocritical and fake behavior, which behind it hides your real face. You will go back to the squares, you will go out: 'It is not the pandemic, it is the government's policy. Can't you see what's going on in the other world? In Spain - where my counterpart is a friend of SYRIZA, your friend - did you not see the labour market collapsed with millions of unemployed? Why don't you go over there and give her some advice, where are you, too, ladies and gentlemen, ideologically? In any case, what I have to say to you is that this government has shown its sensitivity, at its heart it has the man and the worker. We care about people. We care about the workers. On the contrary, you have someone who had put the EUR 10,500, Mr. Colleague, the hardest fine in labour law, which turned the curve of undeclared work in Greece into a one-digit number, from 42%, which I inherited, to 8%. With Brutsis' 10,500 euros, the hardest fine you did not support when you were opposition and I had brought it to Parliament. You criticised it because you 'closed the eye' at the time to the employers who did not want it. However, the fine of EUR 10 500 has entered and is now a "good news", the hardest but fairest measure to hit undeclared work. That's the reality. I'd like to say one more thing, because I'm going to say the rest in my dentistry. Are you guys talking about bringing the toughest measure into the history of labour law? Do you know what measure you brought, your party? You brought the measure of collective redundancies, which never dared to bring it to the history of Greek law. The measure of collective redundancies for workers has a stamp and signature of SYRIZA! This will accompany you forever.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u42	Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, Minister, first of all I did not receive any reply to the timely question I tabled. Now, if unemployment declined in February 2020 compared to 2019, does it not first arise what unemployment was reduced: full-time unemployment or part-time unemployment? I would ask you to bring us the details of ELSTAT, which, however, show us whether part-time work has been increased in relation to full-time employment, so that we can see what unemployment ultimately has been reduced and whether it has been reduced. If I lie about the fact that redundancies are allowed or not, the elements of 'ERGANI' themselves say so: forty-one thousand redundancies prior to the ban on redundancies until 18 March and after 18 March, despite the so-called 'conservation clause' of jobs, redundancies continued and we have tens of thousands of redundancies after 18 March. Where else did you look like I'm lying? To the fact that the rotating work that you have actually set up is to nullify labour rights? That you introduced 150 euros in the midst of a pandemic to workers? That there is nothing to prevent your own government from dismissing in the midst of a pandemic, except an obligation for employers to keep the same jobs? The redundancies and dailyity and complaints to our offices - I don't know why they don't come to your offices or if they come you obviously ignore them - are hundreds. Minister, since 4 May, the workers have been confronted with wage cuts. The market gradually began to open and workers return to work with 30% to 50% wage reductions. Indeed, those who return to work are not protected and redundancies have already begun to do, as well as undeclared work has increased. The redundancies, Minister, will take place in July. Starting in July - I imagine you are aware - you will see that redundancies will rise sharply, because the supposed protection from redundancies is ending in July. Labour relations should therefore be brought back to the previous stage before the pandemic. You should stop intervening in labour law and let the market regulate itself. If you want to help the workers, you need to strengthen their operations. You should follow the program proposed by SYRIZA, even though late, "We stay up", and support Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can maintain jobs rather than arbitraryly interfere with labour law and elasticize labour relations and put workers in a state of insecurity and hostage for the next time. Why don't you tell me that an enterprise that, according to your own MDG, will be used to employ part-time and rotating workers and often virtually employs them with this method, then it will restore employment relations to the point where they were. Therefore, the only solution is the direct and non-refundable aid to Greek enterprises and liquidity through state subsidies. The only solution is to ensure that our businesses are not brought to a standstill and to protect industrial relations. I want a clear answer to my question, Minister, and I believe in your denial that you will give it to me. In September when the rotation scheme for Brutsi is being extended, is there any other extension available? Will you ensure that employers who are affected, according to your MDG, do not resort to the rotation scheme of the common labour law, and there will be no presumption to that? Is there any design? Will labour relations ever return to their former status? These questions are addressed to me by the world. People want to know now that the market opens what fate holds on it, what holds it on the labour law you're trying to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA, with his position continues to be provocative and continues to be the same SYRIZA and 2012-2014 who ruled with lies and mocking, who deceived the workers and continues to do so now. It is trying to make use of the pandemic that is a global crisis and will certainly have an impact on the labour market. First and foremost, I say it as a Minister of Labour. I've said it a long time ago in here. In any event, I said that unemployment would be evacuated. It will eject not from our policies, nor because we are bad. You don't have the privilege of sensitivity. Politics wants the man high and the worker. SYRIZA does not have a right of sensitivity to the workers, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u46	Answer me, will I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u47	We are, however, faced with a crisis that no one expected. You did not tell me in Spain what is going on with your colleague, because that is where your SYRIZA counterpart has millions of redundancies. Why don't you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u48	You didn't answer me and I'll tell you about Spain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u49	Don't talk because you're exposed. Mr President, firstly, I am sorry to say that I am sorry to say so, because the information you are referring to is 'ERGAN', I have said so just now. The elements of "ERGANI" what do they show? If you want - because I also have the privilege - what you once said'montazier', 'ERGANI' and today to invoke it was created on 1 March 2013 for my day - and you refused to create it and questioned it - and it shows that since 2015, part-time work has been escalated. You've been ejected for days. The elements of "ERGANI" say so. You have developed part-time with your policies. Second, you talked about redundancies today. I never said there were no redundancies. But listen to the elements of 'ERGAN', listen to where redundancies are taking place. In the balance in March we had forty thousand two hundred redundancies. It was, however, until 18 March, before we took the measures. After the measures, redundancies have been braked, they have stopped because the measures were a safeguard clause for businesses that will keep their employees. Yesterday's "ERGAN" - Listen! - the balance was positive, seven thousand two hundred five. It does not satisfy us that it is positive. It shows two things: we have lost thousands of new jobs - I say - in tourism and foodism, but at the same time the measures we have taken for the existing labour market, as it works to date, it has been locked and we have not lost. In April 2020, redundancies were about 12 thousand, while in April 2019 they were ninety-three thousand. What does that mean? It means that we caught the labour market, we took care of it, we banned redundancies and it worked in the system. Where do we get redundancies from? There are redundancies - as they were happening and will be, because we have a free economy - from the companies where they have neither been suspended by administrative order nor have been affected by the CSR. Now for flexible forms of employment. I repeat that the measures we take, Mr President, are urgent, necessary and temporary. They are measures to tackle the crisis, to support workers, to support the labour market and businesses at the same time. You've been smiling someplace, too. You're doing it anyway. Do not invest in this policy of evil that comes with an increase in unemployment to say that it is our own policy. It's the result of the pandemic. You'll find it in front of you. People don't believe you. I would like to say something about flexible forms of employment. I will repeat it for once and as a Member I said it as Minister. Flexible forms of employment are an integral part of every healthy labour market. The whole developed world exists. In Greece, 30 years have been introduced by Law 1892/1990. Didn't you use them? There were no flexible forms of employment? Do you remember making fun of the world and saying that if you become a government in 2015, with a law and an article you will close the button and remove all flexible forms of employment, and rotate and temporary? Did you do it? Oh, no. And you can't do it and nobody can. Because the moment someone presses this button, we will have hundreds of thousands of unemployed the next day out in society and the economy and business will collapse. So, come here with greater responsibility. I repeat that the measures we take are temporary, necessary and will end with the crisis. The lost ground that will be created from now on in the labour market by increasing unemployment is not the result of our policies. The whole world is being tested, all the savings. Look at what happens from America to Germany, to England, to Italy, to Spain, to the SYRIZA bond. There are no magical solutions. In 2021, however, there will be a great divergence in unemployment and we will win the lost ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u50	We continue with the third with the number 655/4-2020 topical question of second-cycle MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The workers in tourism". Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, developments in the tourism sector are on track. From heavy industry, support for capitalist recovery was suddenly found, due to the health crisis, the heavyly weak sector with serious consequences for the capitalist economy. The government and business groups in previous years, in the years of the crisis, talked about the importance of tourism as an extrovert to the rapid recovery from the crisis. The records of arrivals, profits made with the blood and sweat of workers were projected. Intensification of a large loss of income, major overturns in labour and insurance rights, were the characteristics of this period. It was a working jungle, as a result of government policies and the memorandum measures that were considered necessary for the capitalist recovery, a middle-century that was silenced by the most recent expensive boulevards of the bourgeoisie, who had served in an unprecedented projection of the supposedly effective work of the Tourism Ministers and the business groups that achieved the miracle. Now the workers of all of them are called upon to pay for the new crisis. The Government argues that all the measures of legal instruments supporting firms in order to deal with the health crisis, such as the suspension of contracts of employment, rotating work, the Easter gift to the bells, the take-off of the employer's right to working time and pay, the reduction of trade union freedoms are temporary and that they will be suspended upon expiry of the restrictive measures. However, the workers, Mr Minister, have experienced the commitments to the temporary nature of the memorial measures, which then became the'medicine against the pathogens of the past', as any rights of employers' organisations and their parties were described. The demands of the BSE, of the SETE are all these new measures to continue, like, of course, the old ones. The government invoked the consequences of the health crisis, as with the Memorandum of Understanding, so now not only does it not intend to take any anti-corruption measures, but it will also take other measures, of course, with an effort to shield the needs of capital, by slandering and criminalising claims of workers. By satisfying these claims, you seek to quarantine whatever employment and insurance rights have been left. The position of workers will deteriorate dramatically if they are not organised if they do not fight to overthrow this policy. Massive mobilisations are already being organised by the food - tourism unions that the JRC will support with all its powers. We ask, Mr Minister, will the employment relationship of the workers with the same rights as before the suspension of the contract of employment be activated? You know that there is a specific employment relationship between seasonal workers governed by laws and collective agreements. Will the terms and arrangements included in collective labour agreements, signed between workers and employers, such as the term'reintegration' of workers on the basis of the legal framework and collective agreements, be applied? Will the request of business groups, as expressed by the SETE, be accepted for the non-implementation of this term of the re-entry contract this year? Will it make the collective contract of food shops compulsory? In fact, what is the government's plan to ensure the income of employees in tourism whether or not businesses open? Because a great deal of discussion is being done that many businesses will not open up. How does the government place itself on tyres hired by one day, a few hours, a few days, a few months from slave trade offices, forms that have been legislated by all governments so far to meet these needs of business groups? However, now these workers under one day's contracts, a few days' time, are excluded from the support of 800 euros. How, then, will these workers' income and their insurance be ensured? We expect answers to these questions, which are very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I welcome Mr Katsotis' question in the sense that I share his sensitivity to a crucial part of the labour market, which is the workers who are in tourism. Mr Katsotis, we have the same sensitivity. The news I bring you is not pleasant. It is something that is commonly known. At the moment, our country's tourism, which involves a large proportion of the country's GDP, is subject to an unprecedented and unprecedented blow. It is not the result of our policies. It's the result, unfortunately, of the pandemic. We have hotels, we have infrastructure, we have very good services. I personally attract my origin from Naxos and Amorgos and I am elected in a local tourist prefecture, the Cyclades Prefecture. I'm disgusting the problems of the hotel world and the world of accommodation. The day before yesterday I had a teleconference with the whole prefecture and with Mr. Theocharis, the Minister of Tourism and we are discussing SETE as well. We need to talk to SETE as well. SETE is the business side. So we need to talk to both the workers and the SETE. Unfortunately, the equation and its solution are not easy, I confess, and it has nothing to do with the past. The only good thing we have - which is good - is that 2021 everything will be overturned for the better. In any case, although I do not share the reasoning that you have explained in your question, I welcome in a positive way your sensitivity and interest - which is common - in this world of the labour market, which is the workers in tourism. I would therefore like to tell you that from the first measures we have taken, it was to give the unemployment benefit, the regular unemployment benefit, for the month of January, February, March and April and to extend it by two months. It is precisely the world of tourism that worked in these categories. Secondly, in the new measures and in the special categories of sixty thousand, who will be paid until 18 May, there will also be the 'heavy' of tourist workers who had a regular unemployment allowance in December 2019. We're covering this world, too. For the rest of the issues, I'll tell you in my denture. It's crucial. It's not an easy exercise, Mr. Katatotis. I know you know that, too. Do this work that you do, speak, submit up - to - date questions. Neither demonstrations nor strike mobilisations can at present address the issue of pandemic. He wants unity, wants solidarity, wants understanding from all sides. No one wants tourism to work, nor the business groups, as you baptize them, because they too will close or fall. Nobody wants to run down. Everyone wants to hire workers and operate their hotels. Unfortunately, the problem is not a political one, it is not an economic one. It's a matter of health! So in my denture, I will tell you a few things that the government is preparing for the issue of tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. We are heard by thousands of people throughout Greece who are employed in tourism, whether directly or indirectly. Their agony for their survival next time is great. Of course, this crisis is the result of the health crisis. We do not disagree on that, Minister. The experts of the World Tourism Organisation have indeed predicted a recovery since 2021. They also provide for a great loss of jobs. The question, then, is this: How is the survival of all this world working in tourism and foodism ensured? So does the government have a plan for this world? Will they, for example, ensure their survival in the coming months? Will the unemployment fund of these workers be extended? Will they enter the Unemployment Fund without conditions and conditions this year, since they will not have employment or will they remain in God’s mercy, where does the world say? So will the income of the workers be ensured regardless of whether or not business opens up? Minister, you say that the government has prioritised the support of businesses because it claims that jobs will be maintained. But this policy is not new. All the previous years this policy has been implemented by your own government, by the New Democracy and by SYRIZA, but also by PASOK, which said about active employment support programmes, without, of course, maintaining or strengthening jobs, as confirmed by official figures. You have already talked about 'ERGAN'. And here is evidence that recruitment is less than two hundred and thirty-three thousand six hundred and sixty-six. This also concerns seasonal workers in food and tourism. This situation is therefore confirmed. However, your policy has led, above all, to support for businesses - because this is how jobs are created - to the cracking of labour and insurance rights. And it is well known that over the past few years, with the crisis, those who paid the marble - to say so - were the workers and with the reduction of wages and redundancies. You said before about SYRIZA establishing the team redundancies. Why don't you take them back? Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Make a legislative arrangement here and take back this burdensome measure adopted by the SYRIZA government. You're invoking it, of course, but you're not doing anything to get it back. Also, on collective agreements: these have not been signed. And those who have been signed do not become compulsory, such as the contract of employment of food shops. There is a number of important issues, Minister, on which workers in food - tourism must be heard. What's next? Are homes lost, for example, by auctions for those who have received a loan? They won't have any income. They can't pay. So will they be guaranteed, or will they be on the road as a result of this crisis? What about small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector? They have requests, which we have tabled through a question. Will these self-employed be supported? What's going to happen here on the issue of redundancies? You said you were fired. However, the Erganis system, Minister, shows that last month, in April, we had forty thousand and fifty redundancies, of which twenty-three thousand were indefinite, even though there was a ban through legislative acts. We also have rotating work. You say they'll open up some hotels. What about those workers who have changed employment relationships? We had in April, in difficult conditions - but then it will be more difficult - four thousand two hundred six shifts of contracts from full to rotating. This will be intensified next time if measures are not taken. So what do we respond to all this? What do we respond, above all, to this world in food tourism that does not see light in the tunnel...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u56	Please finish, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...and they need to listen to protection measures today, survival measures of their own and their own families.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would again like to thank Mr Katsotis for this interesting question, which is also timely and which concerns thousands of people. Mr Katsotis, I answer directly. This crisis - I will repeat, it is monotonous, it is stereotype, but we must say it - is unprecedented and unprecedented. It doesn't only cross our country, it passes through the world. Our country will be most affected on the labour market, precisely because of the fact that much of its GDP is affected by tourism and foodism, which you mentioned and I agree with. So it's not something the Greek Government can do and it doesn't. You have invited the ‘ERGAN’. Last year we had a hundred ten recruits in tourism. Did we do anything negative so that they wouldn't be recruited to tourism? No, it's just accommodation, hotels can't be hired, because the problem goes ahead, which - as you quite rightly said and agreed with me - is primarily health. First of all, I would like to respond, Mr Katsotis, to the concerns you have raised, that yes, we have a problem. The problem is a big one. She'll grow up in the next few months. So I say that in this problem that will cross Greek society, we will all go together, with solidarity, with unity, state, businesses and workers. It was the tripartite of the agreement that I made with the social partners, before the crisis broke out, in my office and before it was forbidden to discuss with us. It was the last meeting I had. With the three-dimensional solidarity, consultation, workers, employers and the state above all to coordinate this work. Secondly, the issue of tourism. What happened to our country? The choice of Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to put as the top priority - which was a political decision - the issue of health, may at first create a problem in the economy, because we have moved faster, but it has produced positive results in the country's credibility, in the good image of the country and now in tourism. Because we are one of the first countries to be able, even in the first cowardly steps, to say that they will open up certain hotels and accommodations. It was the result of a political decision. They're ready today? Yeah, they're getting ready. I'm not ready to tell you today, in your timely question, the whole plan. The plan will be announced by the government, with the appropriate Minister, Mr Theochari, very soon. We are preparing a comprehensive plan to tackle the problem of tourism, how to open up islands, how to open up tourist areas. Yes, we are, Mr. Katsotis. It will be announced very soon. However, among what I have to say is that, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour at the moment, the measures we take deviate from our country's contractual law. It is a temporary measure, however, which will be necessary, which will change - I say before the House - as soon as we get out of the crisis. All this is now invading, in order to support jobs, to support workers' incomes, to the extent that it is possible not to shut down businesses and lose thousands of jobs, to keep business and relations alive, to ensure that there are no redundancies. Now, what are we up to? We are preparing for the next period - through the 'SURE' programme, which has been announced by the European Commission - and we are planning faster than the other European countries, Mr President, we here in Greece, the Ministry of Labour, the 'SURE' programme. The financial exercise is made to include the world of tourism within this perimeter of the coverage, so that, whatever income loss the workers suffer, if they are employed in jobs, we can cover a percentage of the loss and income on the part of the Greek state and the insurance contributions. This is an exercise which we are temptingly preparing at the Ministry of Labour and along with the plan for tourism will be announced jointly with the Minister of Tourism and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u60	We continue with the third under No 659/4-5-2020 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The workers and the owners of the four hundred Centres for Lifelong Learning (CIC) are invited to pay the broken ones." Here, you have the floor, Mr. Kegerglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if we start from the assumption that the crisis is unprecedented and its effects have still not been transparent, we could agree on the basis of what you said before, that we will all deal with it together. However, this presupposes, on the part of the government, that he should have open ears, that he should not reject a priori all that is proposed and, above all, that he should not manage the crisis and policies in terms of communication and propaganda. The tools are an important issue. When we have an unprecedented crisis in uncharted waters, traditional tools and ways are not enough to deal with the crisis. That is why we have tabled an integrated programme to support activities through the safeguarding of jobs. A million workers will be supported by 40% of wage costs in general, by means and insurance contributions, for six months at a cost of approximately 2.5 billion and specific sources of funding, such as the European programme, which you mentioned as well as the European Social Fund. Whatever communications you make in case, like the dozens of cases that have joined in support, tens of thousands of citizens will come and say they are out. There is no possibility of covering all those affected in the way of case-by-case treatment. It needs a comprehensive, universal plan. It is clear that contradictory policies, as demonstrated by the teletraining programme, are an example of very important. You have had some money to make use of by the European Union, you have found a way. Unfortunately, for the problem that arose - but since the Ministry was responsible for all seven companies, with which you were involved, because the Ministry was responsible for selecting the teletraining subject, and the seven companies were responsible for the content of the teletraining - together with SYRIZA, you blamed the four hundred Centres for Lifelong Learning. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Four hundred Centres for Lifelong Learning and their employees have been slandered by both you and SYRIZA. I said this at the first moment: put brakes on propaganda; put brakes on irresponsible policy and on the way that you face people who have worked nights in difficult conditions; workers who have been withdrawn from the job suspension to get the programme done. Today, of course, by making the account, we will see that a hundred sixty - five thousand professionals joined the program. To do this, he has a job, not just publicity, not just communication. But this work - which was projected - was done at a very large rate. Today, with the abolition of the programme, mainly for political reasons and fundamental reasons, of course, concerning the content and responsibilities of the seven companies, it is paid - as I say in the title of the question - the people who did not have any responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u62	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u63	I'm done, Mr. President. The question, then, is: Will those who worked in the four hundred Lifelong Learning Centres be paid for their work? Will the four hundred professionals, or those who in any case, of the four hundred - be paid for the trouble, the fighting, the four hundred professionals, or those of the four hundred - be unable to know whether they have done - to the extent that they have worked and the percentage that we have to have a fair deal on the part of the state, or are we going to have another case that the state arbitrarily failed what it proclaimed and does not fulfil its obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u64	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu, I welcome your question in a positive way, as I share your concern about enterprises in the training sector and their employees. Lifelong Learning Centres 1 and 2 are companies that are also affected in the crisis and have problems, such as other companies. They employ a very serious number of workers, and they are also companies that contribute with taxes and insurance contributions to public effort, to the state budget. The unprecedented crisis, however, caused by the current pandemic, at the same time threatens human health and well-being, at the same time shakes national economies and makes them confronted with significant unprecedented economic and social consequences. Given the circumstances, the labour market cannot remain unaffected. To support all citizens affected by the crisis, the government reacted quickly, decisively, responsibly. In the previous topical questions, I made the outline of our interventions. Indeed, in a short period of time we have taken measures in infinitely, seven legislative acts, two hundred ministerial decisions. For the scientific branches of the country we have chosen the teletraining system, aimed not only at supporting the country's potential, but also at upgrading the digital and professional skills of the beneficiaries with obvious benefits to strengthen their respective branches. Besides, there are few scientists, today we are talking about, who choose the tool of lifelong learning and, at personal cost, with money from their pockets, in order to meet the modern demands of the changing labour market. We have diagnosed this need and moved quickly to strengthen and strengthen skills in up-to-date cognitive objects and the certification of scientists. It is true that I want the Chamber to hear this, that lifelong learning is an essential supply and passport to the labour market, which is changing rapidly. Scientific knowledge is changing at huge speed and no one can stand by the supplies and knowledge he acquired when he graduated. This means that lifelong learning and continuing training are inextricably linked to the future of work. Lawyers, doctors, engineers, economists, in general all scientists should be constantly trained and invested through knowledge and training in improving their skills. With a view, therefore, to contributing to the real training of scientists in modern skills and in conjunction with the utilization of European Union financial instruments, it has been proposed that this teletraining system be adopted. It was found that this system does not meet the requirements and needs corresponding to the qualified scientific staff of the country and is not fully serving the purpose for which it was originally chosen by the Government. Therefore, in finding this failure, the remote-trained financial support programme of scientists was abolished and the sixty-seven thousand scientists involved in the programme received the support of 600 euros for the month of April, without preconditions, guaranteeing the part of the financial support for the sectors concerned. At the same time, so far, this programme has been extended until 8 May so that, today, the beneficiary scientists can apply. I would therefore like to inform the House today that this programme will be extended to the submission of the request by the scientific branches of the country, as well as the request made by Mr Stasinos, the chairman of the engineers and Mr Collis, the chairman of the economists. By 15-5-2020, next Friday, scientists will be able to apply and get 600 euros. So this is a self-evident action that we have done, which is politically responsible, reflecting rather than insisting on a wrong choice by showing political egoism. At the same time, the Government will immediately regulate how the Lifelong Learning Centres and the Vocational Training Centres operate, introducing their qualitative assessment, complementing the current institutional framework. The public will therefore move within the framework of national and Community legislation on quality criteria, with which public procurement must be carried out and with respect for the institution of lifelong learning, modernising and improving it. More specifically, as regards the functioning of the three hundred ninety-nine Lifelong Learning Centres and the time at which you refer to, Mr Colleague, but also the events which have taken place, I will be placed in my dentistry. But I would like to end by telling you that, not only with what I said, we do not blame, but we recognise the great and important work of the Centres for Lifelong Learning and what a major role they have to play in the future and that the public and the state will be next to them. I will tell you in my dentistry about this question, which you have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u67	I would like to point out again the negative aspects which both your original decision and the repeal decision have had. Clearly they had shortcomings, clearly and have mistakes colossal, I would say, which unfortunately allowed much more to be created with the content of education as defined by the seven sisters, as I have called them, by the seven teletraining companies. From your position, however, a moment ago it seems that the weight and responsibility of putting it in the four hundred C.E.K., as their name used to be, Centers for Lifelong Learning is. It has changed the institutional regime. There have, of course, been too much in the past. There have, of course, been cases where programmes have not been implemented, as they should, but the total condemnation of the institution at the outset of training and of all the people working in training is unprecedented. I told you it was where you and SYRIZA were collusioned. You raised a subject on a completely false basis, just to play, once again, your bipartite game. But there are people under the game you play. Under this barren confrontation and slandering, there are thousands of workers in the CVTs, in the Centers for Lifelong Learning, there are professionals with conscience, people who, as I said, are familymen, have children and cannot hear what their children hear about them, falsely and asynchronously from parties, ministers, MPs and I do not know who others. So the first thing you have to do is the moral restoration of these people. The second thing you have to do is, of course, to re-establish the institution of training in the world. You don't start, like I told you, underneath, but you need to start over. The investigation must be carried out at a height not at a depth in this particular case. The third thing you need to do is compensate the people who worked. The work of so many thousands of people either employees or professionals or associates of the Lifelong Learning Centers 1 and 2, in order to complete the integration of sixty - seven thousand scientists must be paid. Of course, the seven - I have asked you a written question - should be considered. On the basis of their responsibilities and, if they have unlawfully done so, the fines due to this illegality. In other words, not only should they not be neglected, but they should also eat the fines, which are provided, if necessary. In addition, I have a question to ask you about your actions in relation to the unfavourable practices they have followed, the harmonised cartel which they have created, so that there is no competition and that the Centres for Lifelong Learning are paid a minimum threshold, which, of course, was set at an informal level in the context of teletraining. Will the Competition Committee verify whether the seven companies had a harmonised practice in this regard, so that a minimum threshold threshold can be set which they imposed on the Centres for Lifelong Learning? With the answers to these questions, I think you will have done your minimum debt in relation to the contradictory policies that you have followed on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u68	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I do not agree and you cannot get on you the monopoly of sympathy and support for the Lifelong Learning Centres 1 and 2. I will repeat what I said in my prototype. We recognize the important role that they have played over time in our country. They are businesses, which have workers we honor, as are businesses. They operate within the competitive environment of our country. These companies pay taxes and insurance contributions and want the Greek state's stigma, as all Greek companies want. So no slander. On the contrary: support for these businesses. Secondly, I would remind you that with regard to the three hundred ninety-nine Centres for Lifelong Learning their evaluation is judged by the Gavroglou Act on behalf of the Ministry of Education. No one was added or removed, with respect for the evaluation we received from the Ministry of Education. It's all accepted. We didn't even exclude one single, three hundred ninety-nine. A moment ago, I told you that teletraining, lifelong learning, are challenges that come from the future. They must continue. So the role of Lifelong Learning Centres is important now, too, in the future. Of course, they were affected at this time in the sense of the fact that happened. However, we have said that for policy in an environment which takes decisions in due time. I mentioned seven legislative acts and three hundred political decisions. However, we have managed and evaluated, with the services that have been carried out automatically, by listening to the voice of society, that one of the quality programmes, which does not have an assessment provided for, did not meet the objectives that we set ourselves. So we stopped the programme immediately and continued the financial support of the scientists, whom I said a moment ago that they had the right by 15 May to continue to submit their questions. So, despite this failure, we reward and recognize over time the work of the Lifelong Learning Centers. We recognise his valuable contribution to improving the professional and digital skills of unemployed and working people and for PASOK days then and on SYRIZA. We have not yet given a programme, but indeed their contribution is important. We are, therefore, and will be next to the Centres for Lifelong Learning, which are a positive institution for strengthening the skills of workers and the unemployed. The value of teletraining remains undeniable, as a large number of teletraining programmes have been successfully implemented in the past. Training, like any other company, must be assisted by the state, supporting employment and ensuring jobs. So, together with the Ministry of Finance, we are here to discuss with them, to listen to the problems of the industry, to strengthen this sector, to the viability of businesses and, where there are problems, to stand next to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The last one for today, the fourth Question No 660/4-5-2020 is a second time question by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Intensive recognition of the work of people in the first line to deal with pandemic and the safeguarding of health and safety conditions at work." Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u71	I could calculate and what would be the answer to this second question, so that we do not do it at all, when it comes to the state's obligation - it owes money, that is, the state to these people - does not assume the responsibility to say: yes, whatever trouble they have done to pay them, legal benefits will be paid. They have the right to be paid for the days they worked for this project. The fact that he has failed is another issue, due to other causes, is not due to them. So, from where and yet you do not say directly today that those who have worked, on the basis of your invitation, will be compensated for their work? I wonder how you are closing this question without saying a word about their right to payment of what is right. We therefore have the issue within the crisis that has arisen for thousands of additional workers who have worked and worked on the front line. There has been an openness for a number of years and we say that, instead of just words, applause and congratulations, there should also be practical recognition. They are all health workers, they are the people of the first line in the municipalities, social services, social structures, whether this "Help to Home" or KIFH, they are the people of cleanliness in the municipalities. Is there more dangerous work than work on cleaning and recycling, hospital, control? These days, thousands of people from all regions, FET, etc. have been working in control. the front line. So for all these who are entitled to insurance and pensions to be in heavy and unhealthy, please ask the Government, once again, to consider the issue, to study the integrated amendment, which we have tabled, to send it to the Court of Auditors to give an opinion in order to get these people into the insurance and pension schemes. I close with our labelling and proposal, all the means of protection for these people working in public services, working in public bodies, for people, who are obliged by the nature of their work, to take protective measures, mask or other means of protection, to be made available either by the state or by the employer. The supermarket must be made available by the employer. But, of course, to customers too, we should see who has it. To workers in the means of transport, to workers in the public services, to citizens who come into trade, who will have the mask without the citizen being charged? And it is also a more general issue relating to the responsibilities of your Ministry, which is responsible for health and safety at work and the private sector and the public sector. Therefore, you must take a clear position on the free disposal of means of protection on the part of both the State and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u73	He put an agenda for all the government in his question. He has asked questions about workers, about protection measures, about businesses, about the people who fight the front line, defending the health of citizens. I cannot answer all the things he has put forward. Rhetorically, I believe. But I will respond coordinates within the question, which he has raised. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented crisis caused by the pandemic has seriously threatened the lives of the citizens, while at the same time trying and testing the strengths of society, the economy and the workers. At this unfavourable juncture, which is shocking our country, but also the whole planet, real fighters, are the workers in the National Health System, the National Social Care System of the EKA, who put their health at risk, their personal security, so that we all keep the rest of us healthy. With their valuable offering they gave a truly titanic struggle, highlighting the real value of human life. As a minimum example of recognition of their efforts and work, the Government publicly thanked them for the work of doctors, scientists and nurses and rewarded them with the EUR 400 special allowance symbolically. In any case, the government took measures too early to protect the Greeks and successfully faced the coronary crisis. At the same time, the National Health System has strengthened, while other initiatives will be followed, to help further its shield. In conclusion, there is a state that tries, there is a state with sensitivity, there is a state that intervenes, there is a state that works quickly, with reflexes. As far as the core of your question is concerned, I can say that it cannot be accepted, Mr President. The specific position you place is fragmentary, vague and fiscally unaccountable. Last February the government brought Law 4670/2020. I would remind you that this is an integrated insurance reform, which corrects all injustices and distortions of the Katrugalo Law. In addition, for the first time, insurance reform was accompanied by a proportionate study showing that everything is now costed up to the last cent. This means that from now on, whatever amendment is planned, it will be carried out in a methodical, organised and budgetaryly costly manner, while being disconnected from any form of customer relationship. I would therefore like to say that, next week, I will sign the new Committee on the Crisis of Serious and Unhealthy Occupations of Social Security, which will now deal in a methodical, scientifically substantiated manner with all the cases that today need to get into the heavy and unhealthy professions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start with a statement. I am able to know that all the issues which I have raised with my questions are the responsibility of Mr Brutsi, unless he has been removed and I have not been informed. The first question I raised with my questions: To pay the prizes of the people who worked at the Centres for Lifelong Learning. That's what happened in the previous question. It's your responsibility, isn't it? Who is it? Subject: Insurance and pensions for heavy and unhealthy workers, as shown in this crisis, which is health care workers, nurses - is the characteristic example - the people of cleanliness, people who are anyway a large majority of the beneficiaries of the risk allowance, as is said. They're taking the risk allowance. This is not about direct financial costs, therefore, we are talking about insurance and pension recovery. So that is not the budget issue. Thirdly, are you not responsible for health and safety at work? Who took responsibility? What Ministry? Why, if he took responsibility, did you give it to him? Are you guys? I beg your pardon, health and safety at work means either taking care of regulations, either through a programme or by any other means, to ensure protection for workers and workers in the workplace, at the workplace. The Ministry of Labour - I would like to inform you, if you do not know - is also responsible for the public sector in terms of health and safety. I tell you this because, since 2010, a national strategy on health and safety at work has been developed in Greece. There is an institutional framework, there are mechanisms. I had the honour of being a State Secretary to the PASOK government, but also to the co-operation government, and I tell you that it is the responsibility of your Ministry. Unfortunately, of course, with an organogram which you have been brought into and signed, you have unfortunately abolished the Directorate-General for Health and Safety at Work. And yet it is now clear from this crisis that it was not only necessary to draw up a strategy, not only that there was a need to maintain the Directorate-General for Health and Safety at Work, but that it had to be further strengthened in cooperation with ELINYAE, in cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work, which is based in Spain. In these words, Minister, I do not want to confront the individual. I would like to invite you to listen at least to the proposals, to process them, and when you reject them, not to reject them for formal reasons, but to do so, if there are grounds for rejecting them. You made an appeal, all together to deal with the crisis. Yeah, we'll all deal with it together, but if you hear us. I'm not saying you do what you're told. Listen to us. Don't you hear us? Are you doing your head? You'll hit your head yourself on the wall. I would ask you to remove the circumstances, because in fact, the effects of this crisis will be huge and are not treated with classical, traditional tools. We need a broader policy, in which we are prepared to contribute - and we contribute - decisively with our proposals, in the way we work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u76	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, Mr Kegeroglou has been folded in his dentext, in the sense that he raised issues relating to the pricing of masks, the pricing of gloves, the pricing of various things, the operation of businesses, which are not about the Ministry of Labour. In any case, I welcome the statement of his evenings. So I want to tell him and make him know not to go behind SYRIZA, not to hear what SYRIZA says. The Ministry of Labour has as top priority the care of the health of workers. The APR is the leading arm for safeguarding the labour law of the country. The RCF has been upgraded in recent months. Two thousand eight hundred tests were carried out in the last two months for health. We are next to the workers, to protect the issues that concern them. The main priority is to protect them, health, as the economy now returns to normality. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Therefore, the audits and the operation of the APRC confirm what I say and not what Mr Kegeroglu put it, which is simply coming in a context of rhetoric to speak to Parliament. Secondly, with regard to the issues which he raised concerning insurance, Mr Kegeroglu, I told you before, Mr 4670/2020, that the major insurance reform is changing everything. He came along with an analog study. We will not reinfluence the insurance policy of the country and now in the future in an arbitrary, vague and fragmentary way. I announced just now that next week it is reopening with a new management board, with a new composition of its members. Everything will be done methodically, everything will be done in a normal way, everything will be scheduled and with a plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, a personal matter. I was charged by Mr. Brutsi that I was behind SYRIZA. That's an accusation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u79	You said a personal topic? Okay now, for God's sake! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the essential part of the meeting, and in particular in the debate on the bill, I should like to refer to two issues. The first issue concerns the celebration of Mother's Day, which we celebrate every year on the second Sunday of May. Before I refer to my brief note on this matter, you will allow me to read out a small passage from the reference to the same subject, which was made by the late Dimitris Kremastinos three years ago. He said then: "Mother's Day is not a personal celebration, Mother's Day is a special celebration of honor to each man's most precious companion in this life. It is the day of "thank you" that we personally owe to the creature, which brought us to the world and which is for us the whole world, until we stand and enter this world. The man we've lived in nine months, and we don't want to split up. It is the celebration that reminds us that mothers are our own life, which we must listen to throughout our lives, to create a peaceful world, a world that will save the planet that is at risk from the various unbalanced threats of blowing it into the air with a nuclear war." That's what Cremastino said and it would be enough for this cut to include all the theme of celebration today. But I'm going to make a historical regression. The celebration of Mother's Day was introduced in Greece in 1929 at the initiative of the Greek High School. Our state since 1958, following the globally established celebration, dedicated the second Sunday of May to motherhood and especially to the important role of women as a mother. Since ancient times, however, Mother Earth has been worshiped as the supreme deity, a symbol of fertility. As a concept for all the peoples of the world, but especially for Hellenism, the mother has a central place, since she summarises the ideas of continuity, security, sacrifice, offer, unconditional love. Nowadays this day is also working as a focus for the needs of modern women - mother, who, due to the rapid change in economic and social conditions, are transforming the role that she has to play. In Western societies, the criterion of an advanced society is its legislation in particular social areas, such as the protection of maternity. By the 20th century, the collective attitude towards mothers around marriage, childbirth, children’s magnification and family support was pitiful and occasional. It took several interventions by women's organisations and certain socially sensitised unions to vote for the first essential provision for the protection of maternity in the 1912 Law on the Law of the Sea, where Article 13 stipulates: "Workers must not be used for eight weeks before and after childbirth, never before four weeks after childbirth. At this time, workers are considered to be licensed and no definitive replacement may be allowed.’ Since then, great progress has been made in this area. The terms have improved, but of course, they are better off, as social conditions change. Protection of maternity is the foundation of demographic support and the continuity of the nation. The Greek Parliament honours and highlights the mother for her social offer. In two places, in Peristylion and in the precinct, there are works of the great sculptor Christos Kapralos. The sculpture entitled "My mother", the rural mother of Kapralos, at a standstill, while there is a sculptured performance that decorates Peristylion, where the same form is engraved between her son and his plans and her forgivers. Accordingly, the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, honoring the Greek mother, publishes in 2009 a dedication of motherhood in neo-Greek art under the supervision of the Director of the National Gallery Mr. Marina Lambraki - Plaka. For this reason, each of us individually, but also as a body representing the Greek people, we honor the most important man of our lives, the man who gave us life. And all together, considering the role of mother in our society, we send from this Chamber to all the mothers of the world our love and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u80	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u81	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, perhaps you could give us the opportunity to make a very short position on Women's Day. As a woman and as a mother, I would like to address you and ask you to put us in a position for two minutes, saluteing this very serious initiative on your part, but also on the part of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u83	As far as I can see, there is no other colleague, Mrs Giannakopoulou, who has the floor on this. But please be as brief as possible. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I will be very brief because I do not want to tire Parliament, but also because we must, of course, proceed with the debate on immigration. Thank you very much for your report today. Indeed, the day began with the tragic news of the loss of Dimitris Kremastinos. We lost a special man, a doctor, a companion, a gentleman with capital! I would like to welcome the initiative of the Greek Parliament, at such a difficult time as to honour the mother, to honour her irreplaceable role and its contribution to our lives. Mother is the timeless symbol of power, altruism, and life, that gives birth to life. It is the heroic form of all heroes of all ages, this personality, which changes the root of history. So today it is a day of remembrance and honour, and this House is exalting it and expressing, in the best way, our gratitude to the mother. We mothers have the pleasure of honoring ourselves with this celebration for our struggle. Women today may be proud of everything we have achieved, for today is very different from what it was, for example, fifty, sixty years ago. In those decades, the educated and professionally active women of the past have been an exception. Today is the rule. The woman managed to break the ties, get away from the four walls and be able to come out dynamically in society. All this has been facilitated by the parallel legislative initiatives of the 1980s and by the PASOK governments. This should be our concern in this House all the time, so that we can shape that modern context, which will open up paths to encouraging women's activity. Mother symbolizes that magical bond, which keeps the family united either multilateral or monogenic. They are, in fact, women - and that is what we need to mention, Mr President - who are growing up alone by a child, whether they are divorced or gay. Of course, in view of today's immigration bill, we must say that we also honour mothers who hold births, keeping their children on the shoulder, in order to offer them a better and more peaceful world. Our life is full of difficulties, of obstacles, of failures, of accidents, but also of good times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have the blessing of being a mother of three important creatures, reminding me daily that my most important role of being on earth is my motherhood. But I was a child, and my mother was my brightest signal. Mother - mother - mother: love and self-sacrifice, joy and solidarity. Happy birthday, then, to mother, many years to all the mothers of the world. The word'mana' is the first, but also the last, that will come out of our lips. That's what we're born with, that's what we're dying with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. The second report, ladies and gentlemen, concerns Germany's slogan and the end of World War II. Tomorrow, May 9, 1945, at 00.45' in the Berlin area of Carlssorst, the supreme commanders of the German armed forces, Wilhelm Kitel for the whole of Vermacht, Stubby for the air force and Von Friedberg for the naval navy sign Germany's unconditional captivity and the beginning of the end of the Second World War. By May 8th, all of the concentration and extermination camps had been liberated. Many of them wandered within Germany, seeking friends and relatives, while others had to wait in the camps, where they were captive all the previous period, until they regained their powers. For the Germans, however, time - zero did not necessarily mean 8 May. This time was marked by the end of April when Russian and American soldiers met for the first time. Under cheers they put a fire in Hitler's photos together. Among them were young girls of Jewish origin who had escaped the camps of death. "Everyone was dancing around the photo while playing music," recalls today's ninety-year-old Ester Beyarano, who was present and recently at the event that took place in the European Parliament and moved us all. So he says: “It was the first time I volunteered for accordion. Previously, participation in Auschwitz's children's orchestra was the only chance of survival. It was my release. Then we understood that we were now free people." We are honoured today, because 9 May 1945 led the morning of 2 September of the same year in Tokyo to unconditional capturing both Japan and the official, I would say, end of World War II. And we hope that this day will remind all of us that humanity must not relive the atrocities of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u87	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u88	Let me just one minute point about the House, namely, the very correct point you made on the part of all of us on the end of World War II, that for a few years there has been the analogous plaque in front of the building, the monument to our eight Jewish citizens, who were victims of the atrocity and Auschwitz. I would also like to point out that, on the initiative taken by the Greek Parliament, there is, after so many years, a permanent report in Auschwitz, which shows exactly what the Greek citizens, the Jews, and not just, but minorities, etc. It was a very national shortage that for seventy years there was nothing in there, from the country that suffered, as you know, the biggest losses, percentage, in World War II. This report is now well founded in the bronze plaque that is outside Auschwitz, where forty-six countries are mentioned, to add our country, which has not been in all these decades. Finally, I would like to point out that they are active, as has been pointed out by all sides, and that compensation from the German authorities, on the part of the German state, is claimed. The decision of the Greek Parliament has been taken. It has been done by the government, and it is an open field, in which all of us should have our historic debt - regardless of any economic price - with all the means to claim, that is to say, transnational and legal. Unfortunately, Manolis Glezos, who was the chairman of the Committee of Experts, scientists and fighters who have for decades claimed these corrections, is not with us anymore until the Greek Parliament proceeded with this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President, for your intervention. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I think we endorse everything that has been said about 9 May, on the day when the disaster ended and, of course, a laborious effort began, throughout Europe and around the world, to rebuild and create the new citizens' lives. There was certainly no need to have World War II and its disasters to have a creative work, and I say that because all modern states and, of course, politicians must be taken care of. So the importance of 9 May for peace, for creation. I should also like to add the need, which, after a great deal of effort by three successive compositions of the House, we have in our hands as a conclusion, what is once again in Germany as our demand, to continue, and to upgrade the claim, in ways that will actually result. It is a universal demand for the world to have fair compensation - if it can be called compensation - of all the disasters brought about by the Third Reich, German Naziism and fascism in general. It is therefore an obligation to fulfil and to us it will be a claim along with the National Council for the Claiming of German Compensations for the next period. The government must also take a new initiative in order to upgrade this claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u92	I wanted to make a brief report on May 9th. The 9th May, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is a day of anti-fascist victory for the peoples, which the European Union has removed from history and is called Europe's Day. And not just. On May 9 there was the collapse of fascism, which was born and supported - another if it turned against the capitalist system itself. Even the American companies during the war provided German armies with ore, they had agreements. No one can, speaking of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, rather than - first of all - pay tribute to those who were killed, tortured, closed in concentration camps, in all the resistance movements that at the time they paid in blood, and so did our country. But, at the same time, no one can underestimate - on the contrary - the enormous offer of the Soviet Union, which literally crushed the fascist monster and paid twenty million dead to this war. Because there is an attempt, a chorusing and a headline of the European Union, to distort history, to give equal responsibilities, it is clear that what is needed is, especially youth and older, not to fall into this trap, because that is the European Union's policy and the equation it makes, the victims of the victims, the murderers, and the victims of the killers. Of course, murderers were fascism, Hitler, we mean the Nazi monster as a whole, which - I say again - was born through the system itself, which was based at first, but later, because we have them after World War II. So no one should fall into this trap of history's distortion, which does not mean the past. It's about the future. He poisons the youth with false lies and various forgery of history itself. We as a Communist Party of Greece, honoring 9th May, put wreaths today in various monuments, all over Greece, because these are the conditions that do not allow us to make mass events. We honor May 9 as the day of anti-fascist victory of the people and call on the world to read history and not the forgery of history. As you rightly said, Mr President, Japan was handed over in September, but the most heinous crime was committed in humanity, which was unnecessarily unnecessarily, and it was the nuclear bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, while Japan was ready to surrender. Today, then, these messages are very topical and the regeneration of fascism has common elements with the past. I do not want to abuse more time, I just want to say that those who are trying today to poison the world and forgery history, know that they will not succeed. We're here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u93	For the time being, Mr Pafile, I must tell you that in 2014 as a Greek government - I had the honour of being a Minister of Justice - we have recommended to Parliament and voted on a provision in the anti-racist law, according to which those who are maliciously denying or exposing crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide and the Holocaust have their criminal responsibilities. Therefore, you see that Greeks honor and know. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. May 9 is a day of memory, it's a day of memory of the whole free world. The Greeks experienced Nazism, fascism, concentration camps, executions, destruction. The Greek solution, ladies and gentlemen, honors this Day with coronary deposits. What we have to say is that we must not forget the German corrections. I am very afraid - I do not do so either in party or in unwritten votes by anyone - that is not something that can be exploited by any party - that the former and current government have forgotten what our country should always do, that is to say, calling behind Germany for what it is entitled to. The disasters were huge. So we must all, together with this House, which is really a very serious House, start this fight, no matter whether Mrs Merkel has recently gone against the German corrections that Germany owes to our home country. I must also say that all of us must remember the Nazi occupation. We must remember fascism whether he is red or black. We must remember that our homeland fought and tell the world that the heroes fought like Greeks. We are therefore honoured today and thank the House for doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u95	Read the story and the dictionary, see what fascism means.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u96	My dear, Mr. Paphie, the Molotov-Ribenstro Pact you must not forget. I don't want to teach you history lessons, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u97	Today is a day of memory. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u98	Did you read Munich's deal? Who did it? Who gave Czechoslovakia?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Paphie, it's a sacred day today. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u100	Yes, Mr President, it is a sacred day today, but the colleague cannot distort history.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u101	Mr Mylonakis, as the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has said before, our country has not given up this effort on the corrections and compensation. The effort is therefore active. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, thank you. Unfortunately today, Minister, seventy years from the day that Robert Suman, French Foreign Minister in Paris, proposed a new form of cooperation more deeply, more active, which would ultimately prevent wars from happening in the future, things in our European Union seem to be more bleak than ever before throughout the time that has elapsed since then. It's part of Europe. A Europe which cannot agree even at the very heart of it, a Europe that cannot help the most powerful, a Europe that cannot even cooperate on how to deal with problems that concern it as a whole, such as the refugee, such as the economic crisis in the southern countries. If we do not do what is going through our hand fighters, I mean if we do not use all the weapons, to wake up this Europe, and especially the 'boss', and in particular the exotic 'boss', which runs the risk in Europe right now, we will be worthy of our fate and fate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Lebanon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u104	You did well to talk about it. The day of Europe, the day of peace is an opportunity to remember the battles against fascism, as colleagues have rightly said, against Nazism and against any other form of totalitarianism. We, modern politicians, have the extra obligation, not only to stand up to these moments and to make simple speeches, but with our daily struggle to honour peace and democracy and not to divide ourselves for no reason. Since you referred to Mother's Day, my colleague from KINAL thinks he covered us all. I just wanted to say that we all honor our mothers, the mothers of all the children of the world and, above all, the ones who have lost their children. As far as our former colleague, the former Minister, Dimitrios Kremastinos, New Democracy honors his memory and expresses her condolences to his family. I think that all of us remember his course as a doctor, who helped thousands of our fellow citizens and his course as an academic with his academic presence, but also his political course in his special homeland Rhodes, in the Dodecanese, as well as his participation in substantial changes that had to do with public health, his work in Attica, his work in strengthening the National Health System and much more he did. But I want to stand in one last. He was ahead of the game, about the telemedicine, when he started it. It is a loss to both the scientific world and to the medical world and to the parliamentary world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the death of the Kremasti.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u107	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u108	On behalf of the JRC, we want to express our grief for the loss of a great scientist and politician, with an enormous offer at the place and with the characteristic that throughout this course he has gone with modestness and morality. We want to transfer the condolences to his family, but also to his party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u110	I would like to say that this morning Mr Lambroulis referred to the late Dimitris Cremastino, and we had the opportunity to make a small position. Perhaps on time the Bureau will see and keep a minute silence in the memory of Dimitris Kremastinos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, as Mr Kegeroglu said, this morning there have been reports and there have been statements by the parties and the leaders, particularly of the political family, but also of the SYRIZA. I take the floor to remind the House - in fact, I am very, very busy - that, with the late Dimitris Kremastino, we have been working with the Bureau for four years now. In a way of perfect, complete and absolutely adequate in its institutional tasks, with democratic sensitivity, beyond its science and political consistency, he performed his role in the best possible way. This Chamber really has memories and his print. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u113	Mr Kegeroglu, I did bear in mind one minute's silence, but I was under the impression that the reports were made this morning. But now the secretary told me it didn't happen. But the reference to its placement for Mother's Day was what I had to do with the text I read. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that we keep a minute's silence on our late colleague. [[In this respect, it is respected in the Chamber of a minute's silence.]] His memory is eternity! I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the JRC Parliamentary Group and the Members of his party tabled a legal proposal on 6-5-2020: "Support measures for all workers in the field of Art and Culture". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u115	Let me finish, Mr. Kegeroglu, and immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Improving immigration legislation, amending the provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A 169), 4375/2016 (A 51), 4251/2014 (A 80) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 28 April 2020 and 8 May 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting organised, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate on the bill will be held by the rapporteurs and special speakers for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for 12 minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes, in accordance with Rules 64, 97, 98 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. Regarding the speakers, I propose that the parties should be represented in proportion to their parliamentary power, with a circle of forty-one MPs as follows: Twenty-two Members from New Democracy, twelve MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from the Change Movement, two MPs from the Communist Party of Greece and one MEP from the Greek Solution and the Mera25 respectively. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u117	The House agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Katsafados, I will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, thank you. I would like to raise an issue with the government, which concerns the bill, in order to facilitate the composition and debate of the next period, which we must do, within the plenary session. Our rapporteur, Mr Kamines, has, in a very comprehensive and comprehensive manner, been placed in committee. We have condemned and voted against the bill for specific provisions, which we consider to be truly backwards for our political system in general and for modern times, since they are characterised above all by the creation of a Ministry of Transmigrants, opaque procedures, secret contracts, secret funds. I conclude by saying that we call on the government to withdraw the relevant provisions in order to contribute to the smooth, fruitful and creative debate within this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u119	The Minister heard you, he will speak after the rapporteurs and say his views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u120	Mr. President, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u121	Please, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u122	Mr Kegeroglu, we have had a substantial debate in the committees and we have answered all the issues that have been raised. For political reasons, to ask for the floor before the rapporteurs, not on a point of order, but on a matter of substance of the bill, is something that is inconsistent with parliamentary practice. You have tabled an amendment, you have your views as a party, which are fully respected, the rapporteurs will answer and the government will answer. I don't think it's good for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u123	In view of the fact that the speakers are enough, I would ask, before the debates begin, that the time should be respected so that everyone can speak. The time is mainly for the rapporteurs, the Minister and the Members, so that everyone can speak. It is a total of forty MPs. The time should be limited. In what sense do I say it? The Bureau does not want to interrupt speakers or close microphones, but I would ask the speakers to limit themselves to the time they have to speak, so that there is a equality for all colleagues and not to be in a difficult position for all the President-in-Office to interrupt you. Mr Katsafandos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is an issue which has been afflicting our country for several years. It is not a one-dimensional topic, it has its national, social and humanitarian dimension. The government legislates and comes within these critical times of the coronary, showing how high the resolution and speed are in its priorities, with which we must work on this important issue, which is afflicting the country and the Greek society. We appall the demand of the Greek people, we are listening to the demand of the Greek society to put an end to this problem which has been afflicting us for so many years. We are trying to win and continue, not only the efforts that have started since last winter, where we brought a piece of legislation, which shows that it has balanced things. We have brought a law that seems to be being implemented and we have very positive results in terms of speed and performance of procedures, around asylum, but we are also trying to take advantage of the timing, after the success, which we had in Evros. A success, which has shown that our country has the potential, has the capacity and, above all, has the will, the will to defend and support our borders, whether they are sea or land. The borders of Greece, the Greek borders, the borders of Europe. And it was very important, ladies and gentlemen, that all these European leaders who came and saw for themselves this geostrategic, geopolitical game, which Turkey plays against Greece and Europe. So the government's effort is continuing diplomatically. Because we were accused, at the committee meeting, of trying to legislate and tighten up the procedures in Greece. It's not like that. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister of Greece has internationalised the refugee and immigration problem that Greece is experiencing. I would remind you that the debate on the revision of the Dublin Treaty has been opened, because all this must be shared between all the countries and not just the countries which are at the borders of Europe, such as Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill shows something else. We're showing that we don't stay static in the face of things. I told you that we tabled and voted for a law last winter, in November, which has results. We have, however, sat down and followed the whole process, studied any problems, any delays, which are created by the application of our own law. We are coming today with this bill to correct and complete this process, which will show Europeans as well, but above all, to all these poachers that they have a serious country against them, against them, to a state which has mechanisms, which can cope under these difficult circumstances and with refugees, against those who really need it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must at some point separate those who have the right to international protection from those who are illegally entering our country and are trying to claim the same benefits and get into the same category as those who are intimidated by the wars they are experiencing in their countries. So, what do we do with this bill? Incorporate the full-recording process exclusively from the reception and identification service. So we do not have the Asylum Service to carry out this work and let it alone have interviews and decision-making. So we are dismantling, leaving human resources to channel them exclusively to the main work of the Asylum Service. At the same time, in order to be able to strengthen this process, we are creating the Asylum Assistants' Register, a register, which will be made up of local lawyers, by the lawyers in the local areas, so that they can help, so that the whole process can work more quickly. Secondly, which we are doing: we are reducing the time for reviewing and adopting appeal decisions, following the rejection decisions which will have been taken from the first point of view. The first priority in this process too - we must stress it here - is the refugees and immigrants who are on the islands, so that we can help to dismantle them as quickly as possible. We are speeding up asylum procedures for a more rapid separation of refugees from irregular immigrants. We are trying, ladies and gentlemen, to separate refugees from the irregularly incoming immigrants in our country. We are aiming to be able to strengthen the process of returns and deportations. We talked to numbers. Already the previous system, which we are following, has begun and rendered. We are not saying, under any circumstances, that we have solved the problem. But here we are. Look. We have it as a priority in relation to you that you have hidden this issue under the carpet. This is the big difference we have with SYRIZA. I would ask the SYRIZA rapporteur, when he succeeds me in this step, to tell us at some point how many immigrants and how many refugees this country can withstand, so as not to make the free humanists here. This debate does not only have place in this Chamber, but also outside this Chamber. On the occasion of the crisis in Evros, Mr. Tsipras said, in relation to the announcement made by the Youth of SYRIZA, that everyone must enter the country, that they are children and cannot understand the weight and responsibility that power has. So, would I ask SYRIZA's representative, when he succeeds me in this Step, to tell us a number: how many refugees, how many immigrants can this country with 10 million inhabitants? Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to make another point, which has given rise to reactions, and that is the closed centres. Closed centres which will replace open centres. With the operation of the closed centers in a few days, all open structures will be closed. Why are we doing the closed centers? In order to be able to create security conditions for both refugees and immigrants and for society. It's our obligation, isn't it? How are all Greek citizens governed by certain principles and rules? So those who live in our country, whether they are refugees or immigrants, must also embrace all these rules, which the country that receives them has. There will therefore be modern closed centres, where we will try to help all these vulnerable people and strengthen them. But there will be closed centres from which no one will be able to come out at night, where there will be hours of visitability, where we will be able to keep in there and all those whose asylum applications are being rejected and who must be deported from the country. Why, what have we experienced all these years, ladies and gentlemen? Everyone was free to go back and go wherever he wanted, so when the rejection decisions came, he couldn't find them to deport them. We are therefore putting an end to this. Ladies and gentlemen, something has been said about unaccompanied and minors. We are strengthening the protection of unaccompanied minors. What are we doing? We are establishing a Special Secretariat for the Protection of Unaccompanied minors as a competent national authority on this matter. We believe that we should enable those who really need it to be protected. The Prime Minister of the country, if you remember, raised this issue at the summit and already during the Coronary pandemic, there were transfers of unaccompanied minors to the rest of Europe. Let us not, however, lead from one end to another, let us not treat unaccompanied minors as minors. We put rules in place so that those who really are minors can be certified. Some people think that this is bad. By the process of vulnerability, which you had done, tens of thousands were given the designation "prosperous" and then disappeared. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stress that in this bill we are also putting the use of modern computer technology, which is very important. I should like to open a parenthesis on this point. Now anyone who is identified, if he has an e-mail, that is, if he has an e-mail, must submit it. We have heard a criticism of the fact that we will send him the decisions to the e-mail and will have to respond within two days. Is time a bit short, ladies and gentlemen? What does a person have to do above, who has an e-mail, who is anxiously seeking whether or not to get asylum, from sitting in his email box on whether that state had approved it or not? How long does it take? It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that these are pretexts in sin. We, what we want, what we are always trying to do with absolute respect for all international principles, to all international rules, with absolute respect for all human rights, are to be able to transmit to friends, but also to enemies, to traffickers, to slaves, that this country now has a system of law, but a system that can distinguish hero from the wheat. We speed up the procedures, tighten up the framework, because that is how we must do, because we will pass on the message to the smugglers, and so we will pass on the message to all others that this country is not the land of the promise, but it is a country that observes legitimacy, protects those who really need it, but has the opportunity to return back to all those who are not entitled to asylum. I should also like to mention another point, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns non-governmental organisations. We are witnesses - I do not need to tell you - how many complaints we have about the activity of non-governmental organisations. Obviously, and we do not ignore that there are non-governmental organisations which have done a great deal of work, but there are also several non-governmental organisations that operated counter-institutionally. So what do we do? We are creating a strict register of non-governmental organisations with rules, with transparency and accountability. That is what Greek society is demanding, and that is what we have to do with all those who manage the European Union's money. Let me turn to two points, on the occasion of the amendment, which the Change Movement has tabled. We're not in favour of post-mortem employees either. The Minister said so in his place. Do we understand the special circumstances? Do we understand the need, which exists or is there indifferent? They're post-mortem employees. That is a peculiarity, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time, we are setting up poster posts for poster service, because this government, by its previous law, has done everything it can, so that this empty shell we found, the Ministry of Migration Policy, can strengthen. Don't tell me it wasn't empty because we talked to you with numbers in the committees. One lawyer had the legal service, four engineers had the technical service and he also had a technical and legal service! We didn't send out a contractor. We renewed the mandate of eight hundred eighty-seven contractors, of which eight hundred ninety-seven were recruited by their previous government. Needless. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have put posters in positions of responsibility. Isn't the director of the Asylum Service a poster? We didn't change him. He's the director of the Appeals Authority, isn't he? We didn't change him. We understand the need. We need to work. The moments are critical. That is why, despite all the procedure we have done with the previous law, with which we have established criteria, we have given benefits in order to obtain secondments and transfers from the State, we are further strengthening them with this bill. We give the opportunity to anyone who gets a secondment from the State or who transfers to the Ministry to have a position of responsibility and a lot of other benefits. We want to serve the ministry, we want to leave a real ministry. We understand the huge work that it has to do. But you understand, too, that there is no magic wand, because unfortunately there are all these lengthy procedures, which actually force us to follow a tactic that SYRIZA followed. The confidential expenditure issue has been clarified. First of all, there are rules. It's not an originality. The confidential funds exist both in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and go through the House. So, it's not that classified. There is a whole process, and there are further insurance, which we put into what is about the secret expenses of the Ministry of Migration Policy. There is also a three-member committee which will approve them and be appointed by civil servants. In fact, I wonder, can we not see that these confidential expenditures are necessary? Can we not see, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with poachers? Of course, it is a good thing that cooperation exists with the prosecution authorities. But isn't that the cost of this ministry? Are they not the obligations of this ministry, how to deal with poachers, how to deal with the circuits of those who prevent the returns from taking place, how will people who are not entitled to asylum be able to cope with the degraded situation that people are trying to create in hospitality structures? Is it possible that there are no confidential costs which, as I said, are not so classified? Not to say that they are not even classified, because they go through the procedure laid down by the House. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, with the hope, on this crucial subject, that our country will finally be able to obtain a national line. We do everything possible. We're not in favour of extremes. We're following a middle street. We are not dogmatic about what we have or what we have in our ideology. Above and beyond our ideology, we put realism and reality. The reality is that we have to look at and deal with the problem in the face, listen to Greek society and be able to give a message, that this state has modern structures, structures that respect international law, but that state can defend its borders as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u125	Mr Katzafadou, thank you for the time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Psychoyos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by expressing our warmest condolences to the family of our late colleague Demetrios Kremastinos. There was a decent, excellent colleague and President of Parliament, and a scientist. We worked together in the past few years. His parliamentary role served him with great dignity and quality. So we too want to express our warmest condolences to the family and its relatives. The second is about the role of the mother, which is the day that is being honored by this House. Mother, who has to do a huge job in modern society, without having the necessary rights, work and social, whatever this mother may be, on whatever side of the world. Let us say that the state and each state must assume its responsibilities in order to ensure its dignity and support. But it is also the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, which has brought an end to the atrocity of Nazism. Our country spilled a lot of blood through the surveillance of the National Resistance. The conclusion of the Houseary Committee must be taken into account immediately, as it has been shaped in previous years. Never forget what the monster meant, the dark landscape, the dark environment and the dark regime created by the Nazi atrocity, to avoid netting and dangerous equations and theories of the two extremes and to look at how in everyday life we will fight against any small and great fascist logic. I'm coming to the bill now. Mr President-in-Office, I do not know if you saw this morning the recommendation of the competent Commissioner of the Council of Europe, Mrs Miyatovic, to the Members of the Greek Parliament not to vote in favour of this generalised and vague detention, which you are maintaining, in so-called closed structures, which will be detention centres - prisons. We have pointed this out to you. He will expose the country, cause us problems in other areas of the negotiation. It violates fundamental rights, creates explosive situations in the islands and you need to see it, because the administrative detention must be an exception and not a rule, as you do, and for all vulnerable. But we have also had Mrs Johanson from the European Commission - within the introductory period, a 'family' of yours has been constantly intervening in order to bring you closer to European law - which said that many provisions of the draft law must be amended to be compatible with European law. Aren't these reports touching you? Shouldn't you be placed on this? Didn't the opposition tell you during the committees? We have heard in the past few days, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister speaking of zero stay on the islands and of their dynamic decongestion. Which country do you live in? You're also an islander. Are you going to tell your compatriots these things? You gave us a press release with the April figures. Do you know what you're saying? 5.3% decongested, so less on the islands, since December 2019. I mean, you're compared to yourself. That was the press release you gave us. Why don't you compare with SYRIZA, who had seventeen thousand people on the islands, and today you have about thirty-four thousand and will have exceeded forty? We have to be serious. What we say is heard by people and they see the situation that prevails. Don't play with numbers. You mentioned many times in the EU-Turkey Joint Declaration and I said that I would analyse it in plenary. The EU-Turkey Joint Declaration reminds you that it has come after the closure of the borders by your counterparts in the European People's Party. Don't tell me that you agree and that they did well because they haven't taken almost anyone refugee and made Greece a storeroom of souls. So we went to the EU-Turkey Joint Declaration. What did the EU-Turkey Joint Declaration do? Lower the flow. Deal. But he enclosed people on the islands. There L.4375/2016 granted the right, on the basis of specific criteria for specific categories, under international provisions, to have the vulnerability criterion, which will be considered in order to dismantle the islands and to be transported inland. You carried people who were vulnerable and on the basis of this process. It is good to ask people who have the government, such as your Secretary-General, about the vulnerabilities which, on scientific grounds and in his professional capacity and correctly, were given to the islands, which had these specific problems, provided for by the law. We told you: Remove post-traumatic stress? Okay. It's wrong. Qualify. Put in public hospitals. Put something else on. You can't completely erase it. So, what do you think? Everybody stay on the islands. That's what you're saying. There is another myth, however, that after returning to the inland there is no return. Returns, as Mr Kumoucasos said, are also made through the voluntary procedures of the IMO, about eighteen thousand over the last three years. As in the countries of origin. It is not just a return to Turkey. Of course, we do not see the outflow into the system alone with returns. Apparently, it's the returns too. Twenty-two thousand people relocated to Europe. Ten thousand family reunions. And some to join. Because some of these people, even a few, will stay here, the ones who think about us, not more. This is how you analyse the EU-Turkey declaration, and that is how you mislead the world. Let's go to the bill. A colleague - whom I appreciate for his legal knowledge - said that there are procedural guarantees within this bill and that shortening deadlines does not infringe rights. This is where we have to be informed. This is not a normal situation in camps. For the general population, there are 10 days of electronic performance and here you say forty-eight hours. I have heard the honourable Member say that what will he do? But he's trying to survive in there, partner. That's what he's trying to do. "What's he gonna do? So he will deal with the e-mail." Forty-eight hours as opposed to ten days of the general population is unacceptable. He's aiming at rejecting applications. How do we do it? In fifteen days, the safe third country will be judged and someone can return. You have put the safe third country, without any interest, even if there is no war, if there is a religious problem, if there is a sexual orientation that is being persecuted there. It is not possible in fifteen days, in the eyes of a copy, to have such decisions. The appeal document and the lawyer won't be able to do it within 15 days. I'm talking to you as a field lawyer. The fifteen days - plus - except - unaccompanied minors are a crime, because you separate minors. As far as the only committees are concerned, my colleague said that it is legal. I will bring you a later decision of the Council of State which talks about 'delegated judicial bodies', which should not be the administrative departments. So we're gonna put it all in an algorithm, put it in the boxes within fifteen plus - but a safe third country, didn't come to report to the commander, so it didn't comply and reject massive applications. And then we will say that asylum decisions have been increased. Without respecting the guarantees it makes no sense. Guarantees must also be respected, we must speed up, we must recruit staff - with you - to use technological means, we must remove bureaucratic obstacles, but not in this way. Border security. What exactly do you mean, border guard? Because we say that it is a country's right and obligation to guard its borders, obviously, and national sovereignty, but it is bound by the Geneva Convention and by the Law of the Sea. Four hundred and thirty thousand rescues in previous years from the Port and compliance with the Geneva Convention. If you mean anything else, say it directly, in public. Because this is also linked to the confidential funds. You say 'Restoration of the flows'. What will the funds be used to bring back the flows? The floating dams? Some denounced disappearances of people to islands? What do you mean by resuscitation? There's no reason for undercover funds in the Ministry of Migration Policy. There's absolutely no reason. We are concerned, apart from height and feasibility, and how they will be used. Because there are co-responsible ministries dealing with traffickers, including with safety issues. He has to retire. For NGOs. The NGO register has been established by us, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that there is strong control over them, which are active in the field. In any case, we cannot concede to target these NGOs, because there are indeed some who are doing very important work and we certainly cannot blame their workers. We say that it is a state and a political responsibility to organise the refugee, and that is a priority. NGOs are on their way. But don't do that. The control was and exists and you must see the responsibility of the state on the organisation of the refugee - immigration. As far as the unaccompanied minors are concerned, I think that the issue has been exhausted. There was no reason and it is unacceptable that the services should be at the moment at the Ministry of Labour and the responsibilities of the Ministry of Migration Policy. It will not be practically all the know-how and institutional memory that exists in the Ministry of Labour. The detention centres and detention centres, as we speak, are full of unaccompanied minors. We denounce that and denounce it with our question. Of course, there is the separation of fifteen, plus-out. This has to change, too. You're abolishing their humanitarian reasons. You are probably confusing them with the excellent reasons, which say that if someone lives for more than seven years in Greece, they have the right to legalise. No relationship. It is specific as long as his expulsion is suspended, so that he is not in the grey zone, so that he is not invisible, to have rights and obligations in a serious state. Now let's go to the ministry's structure. You say what we'd do. We did what we have to do. He didn't have 100% completeness. However, we have made permanent recruitments, some of which are now coming to neural services and we have also received contractors. Don't say speed and urgency, because you legislated that in ten days it is obliged to answer the AACC when we talk about SOF. So use this in two months at most - you would have contractors at the Ministry. Do not justify this privatization, outsourcing, services, to do other things, through legal excuses. You abolished the Ministry and were exposed irreparably. I think before the vouchers of training, your biggest Waterlo was that. And now, you're coming to say that you want to organize it, send it. The delegations, with their signatures, which are signed without control and accountability, have been denounced by all, even by the independent authorities. As far as the Asylum Service is concerned, you say that there were eighty thousand outstanding applications when you receive them. Deal. How many decisions had the Asylum Service made? Why don't you say it was over a hundred and twenty thousand applications? These are more than Germany did at the relevant time. And we did it by keeping the guarantees. We say yes to recruitment, and we say so again. We got two hundred people and handed over a thousand two hundred to you. It certainly makes no sense - you must revise it - the non-renewal of the seventeen contractors. You will find ways and methods to renew them, because they need the service. So you will prove if you honor the Asylum Service. Mr Kumucakos said that for these diversions taking place throughout the country, the same people who made solidarity are the same people who beat people. This is a huge insult. It's an arbitrary crisis. It is something that does not respond to reality. You have to call it off. In any case, however, I accept that for some people there is fatigue. This is not how people who have shown solidarity in previous years are manifested. And now, in the difficulties, they contribute. Why, though, did this fatigue occur? Did SYRIZA make all this organization in the refugee? Obviously, it was not all perfect, but it had made a specific organization, with twenty-eight structures in the inland, with people in the apartments and hotels, with the HELIOS programme, with the ESTIA, with relocations to Europe, with negotiation in Europe and real alliances with the countries of the south, so that these moves can be made. But here, we cannot say that fatigue came by accident. She came because you've broken up the refugee. You have no plan. And whenever you have a plan, you do not insist on the inland to be implemented. You don't even make public statements. Our ministers went down there with the MPs to force it. The burden must be shared throughout the country, so that the islands too can be dismantled. And you blame people too. I close, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that it is for us European and international legitimacy and solidarity that must be implemented in all cases in the refugee - immigration. For us, the rule of law, whether it is about its organization, its structures, or public money, is conquest and must be observed, not through the ways that you implement. You find it an opportunity right now. The crisis as an opportunity in this refugee is. But it is also a more general logic for you. You're doing the same thing at the Ministry of the Environment. Make privatisations and outsourcing services. Above all, however, for us, the rights of refugees and immigrants, i.e. the most vulnerable, are the rights of all. Other social groups will also be denied rights. We say that we must stick to guarantees, we must support them. That is what we will do to the end, and we will be here to judge you and tell you that, following on from what you did in November, you will enjoy it and present it in Europe in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyote, for keeping time. Mr. Georgios Kamines, special speaker from the Change Movement, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. To express my condolences to the family of Dimitris Kremastinos, a man who honoured his science and honoured Parliament's headquarters. We are now coming to discuss a bill, which adds another stone to the constant regressions of the government. I would remind you that by appointing it, the government's oath, the Ministry of Migration Policy had already been abolished and history began with the coordinators. At first Mr Koumoutsaskos would be coordinated, then Mr Stephanis, then others were added, individual coordinators and we needed someone to coordinate the coordinators. And, of course, we have come back to common sense and finally, after we have lost too much time, the Ministry that we had previously abolished. You had not listened to us at the time, as you had not heard us in the matter of civil protection, when we said that you were equipped with a Secretary-General with the responsibilities of a regular minister, that you are building a ministry within the Ministry. And it has again taken a time to take the coronary crisis to make Mr Chardalia State Secretary. Always legislate at the expense of crises. You re-established the Ministry of Migration Policy when flows and so did the State Secretary for Civil Protection. So it is good to listen more carefully to the opposition in the future when it points out some things to you. Why did we vote for Law 4636/2019, the legislation you brought us six months ago for asylum? We then gave the government a vote of confidence in principle for four reasons. The first was that it was the codification of a legislation which was codified in too many texts. The second reason was that by speeding up the procedures, rationalising the process, the islands would be dismantled. The third reason was that, despite some individual reservations, the bill generally complied with international legality and European legislation. The fourth reason was that we trusted that you could take such action in the European Union so that the responsibility for managing the refugee is shared fairly between the countries of the Union. Well, of the four reasons I mentioned, no one today. Nobody! As far as codification is concerned, you are coming and overthrowing it precisely with a new piece of legislation, which abolishes or alters a number of provisions of previous legislation. As far as decongestion is concerned, you deceived the islanders. You cheated on them by election. And, unfortunately, this was done by the Prime Minister himself in Samos, when he was going to conclude the 'truth Contract' with the islanders. And that deception went on and on. For a long time you have been talking about decongestion of the islands. So what happened? You made checks and sent the MAT panics, which you removed the next day. You are currently bringing us the closed control centres, the structures of the islands. On the islands, these demonic structures are built, which will also be detention centres and reception and identification centres and spaces for vulnerable categories of refugees and immigrants of asylum seekers. How will you dismantle the islands? With a puppy. You are going, in fact, and you are undermining the asylum procedure. In what ways do you do it? In two ways, first of all: the shortening of time limits in the proceedings before the Committee on Appeals and then the fact that you are adding, as you are only responsible for the appeals on the islands, the one-sided body, the single-member committee and not the three-member committee. To provide a single committee, which means that you are subjecting a lesser suffering to the application for treatment submitted, requires that the sole assessor with a relative ease to clarify the case. It is precisely for this reason that manifestly unfounded cases, unacceptable assumptions, are envisaged in those cases that were already part of the rapid process. But you are now adding a criterion, which will be suppressed in the courts. You add just a geographical criterion. You close your eyes to the islanders that this will dismantle the islands, that the applications will be rejected and that they will either be returned or those whose applications have been rejected, and in fact nothing guarantees this, nor we have a guarantee at the moment for returns to Turkey. And we know very well that there are too many countries from which people who do not accept them have come back. Secondly, there will be the crisis and those whose applications will be rejected will remain on the islands. How long will they be locked up? How many prisoners will you have in the islands? What does it guarantee us that you will dismantle the islands? Absolutely nothing! I come to the international dimension of the matter. What have you done? It was, he says, very symbolic that the European Union's heads should come to Evros. Yes, it was. But symbolic movements exist to seal some content. What is the solidarity of the European Union? The EUR 700 million that they give us to keep asylum seekers and asylum seekers and they also accept dozens of children to make fun of European public opinion and above all the islands and the Greek people? Is that what you've done? You are keeping the islands with this world because it is supposed that the joint declaration of Turkey - the European Union, a joint declaration which, I remind you, has no legal basis. A simple political commitment is, for which Erdogan himself came and said that he has effectively been abolished. And this de facto did it with the moves in Evros, and so long it has been with the expulsion of immigrants being deported to the islands. We will apply for a roll-call vote for some articles. These are Articles 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58 and 59. What are these articles? These are the articles which introduce a derogating, essentially, government over immigration at all levels. The issue of postmasters does not only have an impact on moral level, as to whether it perpetuates customer systems. It undermines legal certainty, for which I spoke before, legal certainty, which you are affected at two levels. First of all, you decode what you're supposed to codify. In a short time the lawmaker will not know, nor will the body of rights and obligations know exactly what is going on. Secondly, by effectively abolishing the category of permanent officials and by postponing them, you are undermining legal certainty at the level of the public administration. Because permanentity is not only the value of protecting the employee against arbitrary persecution. It also has the value of ensuring legal certainty: follow-up to the principle of administrative action. There is a lasting institutional memory stored in the Ministries. The institutions of this institutional memory are the civil servants. And the guarantee here is perpetual. You establish the posters, knowing that they come and go with each Minister. You're actually making fun of us, because you're telling us it's going to be on duty! As you make fun of us in November when you came and said that the extraordinary procurement procedures - this process of which OLAF is currently investigating - would only apply until June 2020. Now you come and extend it until December 2021. So at some point, you will also be able to extend the term of office of the retired, whether you or any other Minister. We have tabled an amendment, which has two legs. The first concerns the technical service, where you once again hold a posted official. We are bringing an amendment which restores normality to the question of hierarchy, staffing. It is now normally subject to the relevant management and can only essentially outsource projects in accordance with the normal procedure. You tell us that you provide incentives for civil servants to be seconded or transferred. You throw them a charity, overtime. What people are looking for, however, is dignity, respect. The civil servant who will do his job well will come because he has the legitimate ambition that he will be able to understand a position of supervisor according to his value that he will have a perspective where he goes. No civil servants will come to you with the motives you offer them, because you're just offering them a scumbag. They'll come when you overthrow this poster policy. Then there will be civil servants coming, because then they will be able to see their career sometime, at some point, and they will be able to see their efforts rewarded. We are going on the subject of conventions: that is where the illegality is clear. I would remind you that Law 4013/2011 establishing the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority provides in Article 2 that any bill containing provisions on contracts should necessarily be accompanied by an opinion of the Authority and also by the Committee on Legal Affairs to participate in a representative of the Authority. You wrote this condition in the oldest of your shoes. Why? The principle would, of course, remind you of the fact that in practice the tactical extension of contracts and contract secrets and secret expenses is now destroying all concepts of legality and healthy competition. You will find these in front of you, because it is not just a question of corruption, it is also a matter of ensuring healthy competition, for which - you are supposed to - that you are so much cut. This was pointed out by Mr Katapodis, the President of the Authority, when he was called by the committee. Man made it very clear that while he had to be called, he was not called, that while there had to be a representative in the committee, he did not do so. He honored his office with the courage and boldness that discerns him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm finishing with non-governmental organisations. I should like to remind you that when you had brought that other provision to record all the members, all the non-governmental organisations throughout the territory that are simply active in international protection and integration, you have made a register for which you should have fifty people to inform who is registered and who is deleted from each NGOs. Only the Red Cross - I was saying at that time - had six thousand members and you should watch what is happening. But that was not enough for you, you had also put together the NGO partners and the suppliers, everyone. Why? It was a populism and a simple demagogy. You brought this arrangement that is written on the leg, because last night there was an uprising in Mytilini and the responsibilities for this uprising you supported the non-governmental organizations and brought us this terrible provision, the next one. This provision you bring today concerns a register of non-governmental organisations, not members. We shall vote for this, in spite of all the reservation we have, expressed by the scientific service in its opinion, because it gives you an unequivocally unconstitutional authorization, that you will be able to comply with the conditions and conditions laid down in your legislation, Mr Minister, with your decision to add new terms and conditions to the register. So broad and therefore unconstitutional legislative power I have rarely seen. However, because in some ways legality and simple reason in the field of non-governmental organisations is restored, we will vote on this provision. But the rest of us are asking for a roll-call vote. And there we will see exactly how you and SYRIZA take responsibility for the fact that a whole grid of opacity is being established in the field of public procurement, which is unprecedented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. The floor now has a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. The government probably took advantage of the time, which it did not exploit to decongested and take measures in structures during the pandemic, to process an even more repressive, even more reactionary bill on immigration. Before then, it is time to dry the printing ink, five months after the vote on previous immigration legislation - if we can call it that - the government is coming - to improve the bill. And there you understand that when the bourgeois state legislates even words lose their meaning. After all in recent years we have seen this improvement happening many times. SYRIZA cut off, the New Democracy stumbled and now comes to take a step further, delighting that he's doing even stricter procedures. And, of course, it could not be different, since all these directives incorporated into these bills do nothing but condensate the constant condensation of European Union policy and legislation on the issue of the basic rights of refugees and migrants. Of course, despite the big words of the government, and this bill will lead to even greater caging of refugees and immigrants on the islands and as a whole in the country. Because what the government does not say, but it is what actually defines the nature of this bill, is that it serves the European rules of caging, the Dublin regulations, which you have all signed together, by entrusting the country with the role of the European Union's prisoner. And you were pulling the finger on the JRC, which warned of the dangers of this unacceptable agreement, but also the unacceptable agreement of the European Union with Turkey, with which SYRIZA turned the islands into prisons for thousands of outdated people, at the same time signing the condemnation for the five islands of the Aegean. And you, the agreement, which you have made, of course, very critically, are now striving to keep it alive, bringing the closed fortresses to legalise today on the islands you are preparing for the rest of Greece. And since it didn't work out the bolt that you fired with the MATs, you have now started to share vague decongestion promises that you eventually do sample before every visit of the Minister to the crime scene, promises that you know very well you won't do. He said yesterday in his speech a little - very unfortunate that we are so close to this region of the world that gives rise to difficult conditions. As if the fate of the people to give birth to poverty and refugee and were not to blame for your allies' interventions and gambling, you and the previous governments do not carry your own share of responsibility when you put your back in every way to claim a piece of sharing, constantly bringing the danger out of the door and our people. In fact, when you are claiming the implementation of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey today, do you not know that this is the result of such a European Union jam with the ruling Turkish class, which, of course, played its part in our bourgeoisie? Don't you know that this agreement gave her the opportunity to play with the lives of thousands of outdated people to promote her geopolitical interests? When you show the problem today the ever more massive returns, do you not know that by haggling the fates of these people with Turkey not only will it not end its toys, but new, greater risks open up? Instead, for the hollow words of sympathy, ask European leaders to show their solidarity by abolishing the Dublin Regulation, allowing them to organise asylum procedures within the territory of Turkey where refugees are concentrated, where they must go directly for their countries of destination. It is a solution that would put an end to the multiple exploitation of criminal circuits and inhuman trafficking. So, whatever determination you try to show to deal with the refugee as long as it does not turn to the European Union, then the whip will be increased every time, and at the same time you will condemn our country to be the permanent place of clandestine for all these people. The truth is that the New Democracy has so far reached the limitation of the rights it gives SYRIZA the opportunity today to appear justified and suddenly defend rights. We are in fact being asked questions: did SYRIZA not vote for all three directives on which these rights are based today? Who put the seal of double caging? Because this bill with few exceptions is moving in an even more reactionary direction by putting more and more obstacles, but also more suffocating deadlines, so that the right to international protection is constantly made more difficult even for those who deserve it. You even repeat that your goal is to make the lives of these people even more inviolable to stop being the country of attractive destination. Knowing very well the reasons for making this world up, what do you say? That the disgrace of Moria, Vial, will be a paradise in front of the closed centers you want to do? Thousands of new entrants, vulnerable, deported with an indefinite period of detention for how long will our country be in these conditions to become a lifeless and inviolable destination? You're talking about speeding up procedures, but how do you do that? The example of contractors claiming their re-entry after five to six years of continuous experience is indicative of a situation which, with other protagonists, is constantly repeated in the years of SYRIZA, which is now showing its sensitivities, and with the New Democracy. Perpetuate contractors who know the subject. You can hire permanent staff if you really want to step up asylum procedures rather than set up a whole Ministry with posters. On the contrary, with the bill you are actually trying to privatise the Asylum Service with private lawyers to prepare the decisions or the creation of the working group that will work without hours, aiming at the way for a rejection industry. Similarly, you form such obstacles in the appeal procedure. We have referred to these in detail in committee too. Entities have also referred to these issues. In other words, you are increasingly making it easier to reject asylum applications for procedural reasons and not because they have actually been judged. As with the questions of interpretation, particularly in the course of the interviews, which has been pointed out by all the bodies and committees, although at this stage they are not given the right to express the reasons why they are asking for international protection in a language that they really understand, then what else they are left with? For the unacceptable fast track procedures in which you uncover those you think they do not have the so-called refugee profile or in various other ways those that you have undeterminedly defined as non-compliant with the task of cooperation, which enables the authorities to use this vague term according to the beam, you are further limiting time limits by de facto making the examination of applications completely pretext. In fact, you are taking a step further to abolishing and the possibility of responding to this invention of a secure third country by invoking personal reasons, political, religious or others for whom that country cannot be safe, which is contrary to the very essence of an individualised asylum examination. You don't even give him the right to defend and send him directly to death where he left to escape. It is outrageous that even the limited protection regulations that European directives allow you to abolish in the name of the strictness that is supposed to give a deterrence mark, hiding the reasons that are massively pushing thousands of people into roots. You are abolishing - and indeed with retroactive effect - from 1 January 2020 the possibility of granting a residence permit for humanitarian reasons which could be of vulnerable groups, minors or the protection of family life to those who have been finally rejected. Especially in many cases where it is not possible to return it because of the suspension of expulsion, this is how you exclude the only way they have to stay legally in the country. So, what do you do? You create an army of people without papers and ballast rights in every exploitation. This may also concern minor children outside each protection structure. This is the humanism of the civilized world. At the same time, the detention for all those in the return process, which may go beyond the eighteen-month ceiling for criminals, is also generalised. In fact, this procedure does not exclude minors, unaccompanied or unaccompanied by their families. Close structures for asylum seekers and for those who reject their request even more closed. At the same time, however, you are correcting luck and detention centres for the outdated for another category of citizens of third countries, you are more willing to show your humanism. In order to make it easier for foreign investors for residence permits, "golden" visas to them and to their family. You are strengthening the capital of private firms in the health sector, providing them with the opportunity to exploit cheap and flexible skilled labour without regulated rights from unpaid volunteers in the various countries. And, of course, you are making it easier with quick and flexible entry visas to the American scholars of the Fulbright Foundation known for trying to rinse the imperialists. This is obviously also part of the deepening of the country's involvement in NATO and the US planning and the anti-imperialism relief plan, which you and the previous government are artistic with so much art. I'm going to make a mention, because it's, in fact, a humiliation of the government's firework for the NGO control register. The critical is not the checkbook from the current registration of the New Democracy, as is the previous SYRIZA, much more so that most of the non-governmental organisations are also known and registered in the European Union registers. That is not why the main problem arises. The problem is the option that you are constantly making to deliver such sensitive sectors to non-governmental organisations that should be under the sole responsibility of the state. It still remains unexplained what costs you want the Ministry to cover in and out of the country, to justify the provision of new confidential funds, with an obligation, in fact, to destroy all the evidence within six months. You're making an effort to justify it. I think that this is not enough, of course, to create the supposed security that the parties will be informed of this kind of expenditure. Truly, isn't the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Public Order to deal with these risks that you present and you are rushing to open new classified funds? This kind of preparation of the Ministry is revealing the general logic of dealing with the refugee - immigration - mainly as a security issue. It is linked to the escalation of repression, to illegal repropriations in the name of the deterrent - such inspiration were the dams for the Aegean - inviting NATO and FRONTEX intervention, the continuing military enclosure measures. It is a policy that has, of course, started SYRIZA as long as the waves of the uprooted ones have increased and now New Democracy takes it off. You see that in these issues you are not competing with who made the country most of a clear vine, because both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - you have opened the doors to NATO and their bases - of course also the previous governments from you - for your European partners, for all kinds of investors, that is to say, who are mainly responsible for the creation of the causes of the uprooted and, of course, for all those who are responsible for the trapping of these people in the country. Against these dangerous choices, it is the Greek people who must strive for their struggle. They are at stake, not by afflicted and outdated women's children. These choices are the ones that blacken our lives as well as theirs. That is why we call on the Government to dismantle and not implement the unacceptable agreement of the European Union - Turkey, which has turned our islands into quarrels, not to consider establishing this situation with the new centers - prisons, which is preparing for the islands and for the rest of the country, to transfer refugees and immigrants to decent hosting structures of mainland Greece, which will operate solely on the basis of state responsibility, in which they will also go to the countries of their real destination, against the Dublin Regulation, with priority to the demands of family reunification. With the responsibility of the European Union and the UN to demand that asylum procedures be organised within Turkey by direct movement into their countries of destination, that we stop any involvement of our country in the imperialist interventions that sprinkle war and refugee and open up new outbreaks of danger to our people as well. It is obvious that we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mrs Konnakkas and especially for the time being. Mr Antony Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the government, the government, any government, any, Minister Mitsarakis, a bill and the parliamentary group are absent. What happened? The New Democracy Parliamentary Group left the Chamber? Does he not accept the bill, Minister? There's no one here. First of all, we, the President, the members of the Parliamentary Group, the Greek Solution movement, our condolences to the loss of a doctor, a politician, a man, Dimitris Kremastinos, who left us in the morning hours today. God rest his soul. Our condolences to his wife and relatives. Mr. Ministers, before I begin my speech on today's bill, in which we have a title, he is not mine stolen, borrowed, but copyright is not paying for it. The title is: 'We have opened and we are waiting for you'. That's the bill you bring today. And we don't say so, Greek society says so. We have brought and filed written voices from institutions, from representatives of residents, from many regions of the country, asking, Mr Minister, to get back this bill, which instead of solving problems for our country, for our country and for Greeks, is probably trying to solve the problems of illegal enclaves. I'm sorry, the word poachers or illegal immigrants used it until a few days ago. But now, because the propaganda told you that you need to change patterns, you are using citizens of third countries, not even immigrants, nor illegal immigrants, nor refugees. You are using the term ‘third-country citizens’. Before I begin, however, I should like to say something to the Government about the behaviour of doctors, infectiouss, Mr Chiodra, Mr Hardalia, the State Secretary for Civil Protection now, to the citizens, to the Greek citizens. You've gone crazy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and the Government, the world, you've made the people crazy. He doesn't know what to assume anymore. A lot of articles, which we see every day growing, about which he had previously claimed - rather in a crisis of conscience - the head of the infectious and advisor of the government and Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Chiordas himself. This thing had been said, the President of the Party had denounced it, speaking of the bill the other day in plenary, and you dropped the whole New Democracy to eat him, 'What did you say about the sacred totem, Mr. Chiodra?' We loved each other, but we never did. We didn't say Mr. Chiodras was a bad man or a bad doctor. We said that he said that many deaths not coming from the coronary - they were positive those who left life but asymptomatic to COVID -19 - were considered, even though they left other causes, to have left COVID -19. Yes, sir! And now it comes, in addition to yesterday's poll that begins and breaks out this thing, with yesterday's publication of the newspaper "Dimouratia" - we will testify it in the Minutes - the president, the pharmacology professor of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Kouvelas, who directly questioned the official evidence of the deaths in our country and blamed Mr. Tsiodra for the wrong way in which he invented deaths and attributed to the coronary. Watch out: One. The professor of Stanford, Mr Ioannides, is coming - I do not believe anyone to question Mr Yiannis Ioannides, is one of the 'Einstein', rather the 'Einstein of infectiousness, epidemiology', Mr Ministers - and he says that the deaths of the simple flu, so many of them also came from the coronary. It says that it is Mr Chiodra's invention to calculate the deaths of this virus to justify the measures. The evidence clearly shows that the coronary is much less lethal. Humanity costs money. Lockdowns are no longer the right medicine, Mr Ioannides says. I will put these in the Minutes, because the Greek people can't stand it anymore. The explosion, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greek society will look like when the hunters - who are hunting, are not here Mr. Pafilis, who is a vivid hunter and will confirm - go to a forest to hunt and the birds make absolute silence. There, then, sometime the explosion is lurking. And the explosion won't be long. And to stop, please very much, shouting and swearing and accusing the Greek people who go for a walk, go to the squares, because they can't just hear anymore that something is happening with deaths and it's not exactly what they tell him. Mr Tsiodras comes in and says 'we are carrying out orders from the World Health Organisation and the European Commission, otherwise we would'. We don't understand. Were there deaths that are only from the coronary, or were there deaths that were from other pathological causes and were recorded as deaths by coronary, so that the Greek society and especially the Greek economy have been completely destroyed? Did you see what Mr Vassilis of 'AEGEAN' said? "Take her state to do her, because I'm not going out! This company cannot be raised again, needs money, 6 billion euros Germany gave LUFTHANSA. How do you think they'll open the stores? Go for a walk to Omonia, no one opens. I'm shaking in! There is no way, unemployment will exceed three hundred, four hundred thousand, the recession will exceed 15%. What don't you understand? You don't understand that either? Don't understand anything! Look at the first half of 2015 - here is the former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, and he remembers it - SYRIZA was on his up, Tsipras was the hero, until September when there were repetitive elections and took them for fun. And then the downhill started. And you will be forced - because that's what the serious economists say - to bring in another memorial and then we'll see how much waste the bag works. Now let's go to ours. Mr Ministers, you brought in a bill and you say it is a reform bill to amend a law, which we have said from the very beginning that there is no way our country and the Greek society will win. And because the moto of Greek Solution is first Greece and first the Greeks, we read all those days that send us - and they send you - bodies, residents, everything. Open letter for hospitality structures in Malakasa: "Ministers and mainly MPs who are in Eastern Attica, Malakasa has twenty-seven thousand people and you have four thousand people in the two structures." I've got all the evidence here, and people get nervous. The local settlement Malakasa, Minister, Mr Mitarakis, has five hundred fourteen permanent residents. Have you visited him? Do you know how many structures there are? Three thousand and fifteen! Here I have all the evidence - you don't have to worry about drawings, everything, to see what's going on in here. I'll testify to the Minutes for the Greeks to understand what you're doing. They haven't figured out what's waiting for them yet. In a settlement of five hundred and fourteen people, you have next to three thousand and fifteen! And because I told you that you have built twenty eight towns and you said "no, we don't have twenty eight, thirty-two", you have thirty two towns and then you go on and on. These towns, which are a thousand, a thousand two hundred, two and a half thousand - we have all the elements here and I will submit them in the Minutes - are constantly increasing their capacity. Since Mr Mitarakis is Chiotis and is voted on in Chios, Mr Mitaraki, have you read what the Coordination Committee of the Aegean and the Inhabitants of Chios, who invite the parties to request the immediate withdrawal of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy and otherwise to vote against it, why does it turn against the islands of the Northeast Aegean and their inhabitants and why is it taking advantage of the Koroni pandemic to pass on a series of painful arrangements to the social and economic life of our islands? Do you understand, Mr Mitaraki, my Minister, my dear friend the South, because yesterday and the day before yesterday, Miss, you said this falsehood, and I, too, and the parliamentary representative of our party, Mr Constantine Hetas, when you told us that all parties - and Mr Kamines remembered it - mean that the islands should be decommissioned - did not say so, Mr Kaminis? - except one, of the Greek Solution? Mr. Metarakis, did you say that? You said it! So only the Greek Solution, ladies and gentlemen, does not want the islands to be dismantled by illegal immigrants. And we said it twice, and I think he'll do it again. If it is a party that at the first moment calls "not on the islands of the Northeast Aegean, not one day, but on one, two uninhabited islands that will become structures". Recently the socialist government of Denmark, Mr Ministers - socialism, has there - has an island uninhabited and triggered it, built structures and put in there invaders, illegal immigrants, as these socialists and fascists, of course, socialists, according to the propaganda of the government. So the only movement here, which has made a clear proposal since the first moment, as in all matters, is the Greek Solution. Once again, do not say that, because I do not want to say that you are six liars. I'm not saying it because I don't want it. You're my friend, and I don't want to say that. Greece: Illegal immigration in numbers, ladies and gentlemen. Listen, because you think you'll have a lot of fun. We do not, as the whole other opposition does, which does not vote for the bill, because the rights of illegal immigrants are not met. We do not vote for the bill because the country is being destroyed, the Greeks are being destroyed. Clear things! We don't give for the others! Pennas! All we want is for unaccompanied children, for young children to take care of themselves in structures as they must, and for those countries that have to go. The official figures, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, show that between 2001 and 2019, Mr Kumoutsakos knows them much better, because they have these in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - we had a million six hundred twenty-seven thousand eight hundred ninety-one immigrants, obviously illegal immigrants. Some of them, several of them -- and how many others are those who have taken a card, so that they are not here -- have become permanent residents. Will the Greek people finally be able to know how many people come in here and don't come out? I'll tell you now about getting out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. But listen to the other big and very serious issue. In 2020, it is estimated that the number of Muslims who arrived and remain in Greece, whether legalised or not, represents 16% of the country's total population. Do you know what the average of the European Union is? It's 4.8%! Here is the evidence, Minister - don't worry - and I'll testify to it all. We have twenty-eight hosting structures. Where are they? I'm going to testify the evidence in the Minutes, Minister, because I don't have time to analyze it for you one. The mayors aren't talking now. Why? Because you 'buckle' and the mayors. Apart from the media, you're "bunking" and the mayors. They took ten million too! They also shut up, some and not all. Is that so, Mr. Mayor of Chios and Mr. Mayor of Sinticos? In addition to what I read to you, I come to the 'ESTIA' programme, Minister. That's another program! There are twenty-six thousand positions in this. Where? In apartments, in rooms, in hotels, as you will see in detail in the document, and in which areas of detail. I'm filing that, too. I will also submit to you the recording of the data so far from an EIA survey. We told you from the outset that the only thing that does this bill you're bringing is, firstly, to legalise the permanentisation of illegal aliens in our country. He said Mr. Metarakis that we have a hundred and twenty-three thousand asylum applications. SYRIZA left them in the seventeen thousand - these are the numbers that Mr Kamines gave us, and we agree - then they went to the seventy-three thousand, and now we have, a hundred twenty-three, twenty-four thousand. No one knows anymore, we've lost count. Isn't that right, Mr. Kamin?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u133	One hundred and fifty, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u134	Yes, yesterday Mr. Metarakis said that the five percent of the twenty-three were satisfied. Of the hundred twenty-three, we're at a hundred-five. He didn't say it yesterday? So I said to the Minister yesterday: 'Mr Minister, I would like an answer so that it can be recorded from the Step and not between us. I know what you told me yesterday. When I asked you, Minister, how many of them are entitled to asylum, you told me a small percentage. And I told you I wanted the exact percentage. And when I asked you: 'The rest, Minister, why have they not left our homeland, as should have been? You said that they should not have departed; you said: 'Yes.' And I asked you: “Where is it? When did they leave?’ And you told me that the embassies don't cooperate and we don't find them. You don't find them? So where did they go, and you can't find them? What is it? They're rats and they're hidden? I don't understand! They have provided false data, which you are trying to predict with the new bill, they have changed CYPD, they have left Mytilini, Chios, Samos, and they have transferred to other CYPDs inside, they have disappeared through the CYPDs and now you are not finding them by the names " Ali Hassan", "Adu Huntou" or "Ado Katou", and I don't know what they're called, "Mohammet" etc, because their names are others. And now what? So all of these men are permanently in our homeland. There's new ones coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u135	Please complete, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second thing you're doing is settlement the country. Thirdly, classified funds. It's not, it says, classified because the House controls them. Of course the House does. Nothing goes through here as long as the Greek Solution is in here. There's nothing going on and we'll keep saying it. But how do we know where the grand went, my Minister, when you tell me that, Mylonakis, the grand, I gave it to two, who testified that they would leave this place and come at that hour? I'll find Ali Hassan or Antonis Mylonakis who gave you the information and gave him the money? And how do I know how much money you gave him? Is there any evidence? There's nothing! The secret funds, not to be fooled, I know them very well, because I've been nursed for many years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Mylonakis, please, please. Nobody spoke so much. All the rapporteurs spoke sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I come to something last. Prolongation until the end of 2021 of contracts with direct awards. You're still doing it. We are talking about the Turkish company 'ASLAN' with its own container. Well, did the Greek containers get lost? Are the Greek carpenters, who have been fighting all day to make the beds and kitchens? Aren't there such things as Greek? Do we have to bring them from Turkey? Do you have to give them directly to Mylonakis, who is taking them and bringing them from the Turkish company, and we're giving the money over there to take vaccines and ammunition to kill us? Take a look at them, please, all this. You have not understood the problem. And I come to something last thing that is the main one. You're not shutting down the NGOs. I am surprised, Mr Kamine, that you said that you were asking for a roll-call vote - perhaps you forgot about the NGO - from Article 55 to the end. What's going on here? Something's going on! I think so. We'll see. Of course, the Greek Solution is voting against both the bill in principle and the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, the request for a roll-call vote has not yet been tabled. We will therefore do so shortly before the vote, so that all Members can be notified. As far as the vote is concerned, this will be done, as was the case in the previous bill, namely by the mixed system: those who are here will vote electronically and the others will vote by letter. So I repeat that today will be the roll-call vote, so that we can finish this matter and all my colleagues will be notified - they are all listening, but I imagine they will also be notified by their parties so that those who are interested - and there will be no surprise. We have, therefore, given a time period which will be too short to give our colleagues a comfort, and some of the relevant prefectures may also come by road. The reason is now the Special Rapporteur from Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, he left life today Dimitris Cremastinos, a remarkable academic, a doctor with morality, a politician with an opinion and courage. Honestly condolences and from us, from Mera25, to his relatives. Let's move on to today's bill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years have been completed this year, ten years that have poorly and devastated our country, ten years of policies which have divided and afflicted the citizens, policies which we fear will come back in the form of a new harder fifth memorandum. But before that comes, every time we are called upon to discuss the draft laws tabled by the government, we see pervasive to them its neoliberal ideology. Last example, today's proposed bill, which is, in theory, aimed at improving immigration legislation, but what it does in practice, is to succeed in finishing the hit on the refugees launched by previous law, Law 4636/2019. Let us see briefly some provisions which are the least problematic, although in total, as I have said since the first meeting, we are opposed. Articles 1 and 4 deal with the issue of unaccompanied minors, a matter which is transferred as a matter of competence from the Ministry of Labour to the General Secretariat of Unaccompanied Minors of the Ministry of Migration Policy, but which leave unresolved the serious problems, such as the fact that the Government continues to deal with minors as potential criminals, maintaining the provision for their administrative detention. Furthermore, no initiative is taken to find children who have been lost from structures in which they are hosted, and no comprehensive plan for addressing the phenomenon is presented, a phenomenon that will not be solved by the fragmentation of few children in other European countries. In Articles 2 and 7, we have a familiar term, that of the language which is easily understood by the refugee applicant, both as regards data collection and interpretation during the processing of his request, without any provision of what will happen if the applicant does not know the official language of his country, which is extremely likely, considering the existence of numerous dialects in all the countries of origin. Positive improvement in the legislation by adding to the interpretation of the international sign language, but it is not enough alone to change our attitude. The second Article also affects the presumption of inadmissibility, a presumption consistent with all international legislation on the protection of the rights of the child, legislation which the Government chooses to seize. We believe that it should be maintained in full throughout the process of submitting and examining the request, always in the best interests of children. The problem is that Article 5 provides for the possibility of full registration of asylum applications and the Regional Reception and Identification Agency. Unfortunately, we believe that such enlargement would call into question the correct recording of the applicant's data, the request and the outcome of this as a whole. We believe that it should remain solely the responsibility of the Asylum Service, which should of course be strengthened by additional staff rather than further subscribing. I and other colleagues have already mentioned the case of the seventeen conventions, for which we have been informed by the Minister and the qualified speaker of the majority that there was a question of legitimacy without any further clarification. And of course we wonder why they have never been informed about this legal embezzlement. Article 11 contains provisions on self-personality and the presumption of implied withdrawal. Reading the article we really wonder how the proper management of applications will be ensured and how it will prevent us from having a large number of silent revocations, thereby excluding applicants in need of international protection from the asylum procedure. With Article 14 and the provision for service by e-mail and for the short period of time -48 hours - from the moment of dispatch, within which the service considers that the applicant has been informed, we fear that new grounds for rejecting applications are created. Article 15, amendment of Article 83 of the previous law. The proposed amendment shall remove the exclusion of unaccompanied persons from the rapid asylum investigation procedure. We believe that any change can lead unaccompanied refugee from outside the country in the midst of discussing and examining his request is against the principle of protecting the interests of children. Article 20 retains the detention status and, as in the debate on Law 4636, we are opposed to it, because it takes precedence for criminals who have come to our door in search of a better tomorrow. Article 30 introduces the creation of closed centres on our five islands. Our opposition to this has been recorded and demonstrated at every opportunity. Unfortunately, the government chooses to continue the practice of caging instead of immediate decongestion, perpetuating the tragedy of refugees and also of the inhabitants. This is the way in which the pro-Raise structures are maintained, essentially by transferring refugees from one structure to another. A unique solution - we have said so, we will not get tired of it again - is the decongestion now of the existing structures and their sharing in Greece and, above all, their promotion in Europe. We are asking for all the soul concentration camps to be closed and not new ones to be created. We refuse to consent so that our country can continue to be Europe's prisoner. In Article 33 there are provisions for the granting of a residence permit to children aged 21 to 24, but only family members who are investors and hold Golden Visa, children who, of course, - as expected - enjoy special treatment from the Government. It is not the same, obviously, in the minds of the government as children who live in tents. Article 50 and an amendment of Article 30 of Law 3971/2011 on detention again. Unfortunately, we see detaining it as the norm in complete contrast to the provisions of Union law and fundamental human rights, with the possibility of applying alternative human measures to remain detached. The New Democracy once again chooses to violate Union and international law in order to pursue its own obsessed repression policy. Articles 52 to 54 are articles providing for the recruitment of several posted officials to carry out tasks that should normally have been permanent. And as we all know, ladies and gentlemen, the posted officials are the sole choice of the Minister and their employment relationship ends with the movement or withdrawal of the respective Minister from his post. However, if these officials are given such important tasks - such as the administration of the Ministry of Migration's legal service - and they are leaving, how will any follow-up be ensured and that the balance remain undone? Article 55 and creation of classified funds to the Ministry of Migration in the standards of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. Unfortunately, the explanations we received during the committee meetings by the relevant Minister did not convince us, and of course we continue to wonder what the reasons for the existence of the confidential funds have in this ministry. Article 57 concerns the establishment of a register of Greek and foreign NGOs. As a general principle, we have as a general principle that this is a legitimate move within the framework of serving the need for democratic control over NGOs receiving Community funds and not just funds and carrying out activities to manage the refugee issue. But, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that arises is the control body. We in the whole of the proposals that we put forward in the constitutional review have introduced the innovative institution of the PPC, an institution that ensures the best democratically within the framework of the representative democracy decision-making process, with transparency and impartiality being more than any party of purpose. In the absence of such an instrument that could function as a supervisory body and at the same time an impartial audit of the NGOs, taking up this role by a General Secretariat of a Ministry - so from the executive authority itself, the government - makes us extremely cautious. Ladies and gentlemen, at yesterday's second reading in committee, I listened very carefully to the position of the Deputy Minister, Mr Kumucaku, who said, among other things, that there is migratory fatigue in the local populations and we need to listen to them and be with them. I agree. I agree with you, Minister. But I wonder if that is how the government chooses to listen to them, by creating closed 'watch' centres that will move refugees from one point to another, and will stack most - if not all - hurting souls, which are now torn into the miserable conditions of the existing camps. Not only local populations, but all Greeks, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, have been tired for another reason. Because they see the problems of the crisis coming back threatening, because they live in fear of overcompensation not knowing what will happen at their home after the end of the three-month extension that you have given last minute, because they see the financial impact of the coronary on tourism, on focus, on retail trade, everywhere. They see the consequences of knocking them at the door and see poorness intensified. These fellow citizens are, unfortunately, easy to work on by some superintendents who want and try to use them for their own goals, so we have the results we have seen in the past days in Edessa and elsewhere in our country. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But, gentlemen of SYRIZA, for all this fatigue you are not ruthless. Because Moria and the rest of the centers are your creation that the New Democracy inherited and deteriorated. As you contributed to the impoverishment of the Greeks and you. Like you a few months ago, you were trying at the same agony that New Democracy does now to prove that you are the obedient students of Brussels for a hit on the back, since something else - let us not mock - something more tangible that would improve the lives of our fellow people, you never won. On the contrary, all the parties of the memorandum arc have contributed to the desertification of the country, to the poverty of the people, to the loss of hope. To close, my report of the refugee yesterday seems rather embarrassing to some colleagues. Today I will simply say that for us the refugee is the same, regardless of why he left his country. Because surely no one chooses to leave their country to go to a foreigner, who is sure to go to the margin if there is no good reason. To close, for us in Mera25, the only solution to arrest the plundering that the country's political and entrepreneurial oligarchy plans is to fight through the entrepreneurialism in which we call on all citizens. Because the hope that began to be reborn is something that cannot reduce a memorial policy and no prerequisites or transferring you to cut back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u141	Thank you too, my colleague. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, now has the floor for 15 minutes. I hope you'll be consistent in your time as long as you can. Then it's you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd just like to say something about Dimitris Cremastino. I knew him personally. He was a personal friend. Maybe one of the best presidents that went through here. Always expensive. I recall that he has been smuggling the PASOK Members on many occasions, which unfortunately is not happening today with the Presidents of the Parliament who never abuse the neo-democratics because they think they are Presidents of the New Democracy and not the Presidents of the Parliament. I'm saying it with a lot of soul pain because the Kremastino was an ornament. I remember him. I don't know how many you beat him to the president of this House. I'd met him. He was an excellent man, mild tons, but always fair, as the Presidents of the Parliament must be. Condolences to the families. I have a question to ask the Members of the New Democracy. We have a serious bill. I imagine the rest of them are in their homes with Mr. Brutsi's teleworking. From a hundred and fifty-eight New Democracy MPs are here only three - four and Minister five. It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u143	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Comrade, you're on your own, anyway! But we're actually going. I'm saying self-evident. What do I mean? It's a bill concerning the future of the country, since it's your flagship, as I hear you and you're writing in the form of a co-chairman. Members are missing. There's three of them. You're a hundred and fifty eight. Couldn't the others be here? Or the rest don't want to defend the bill and disagree or field buy. There's nothing else. I'm telling you that. Because he's a flagship, I repeat. It's not just a bill. And I would like to make a little comment, unfortunately, on SYRIZA, on Marfin. It is sadness and pain, at least to me, that this story of the murder of four people has not become the coherent link has not become the catalyst for the parties to join in the fight against violence, whatever violence. For me either red violence, black violence, green or orange violence. So, in my view, tomorrow we should all be there to pay tribute and press after the government to find the killers. As far as I know, no government has so far compensated the families of these people. You'll tell me the compensation for human life isn't important. But it is an act by the state that people have been wrongly lost. I say this because I think we should all be there tomorrow, all the political parties to send out a message to anyone who wants to divert democracy into acts of violence wherever they come from. To be at least consistent, I repeat, with what we say many times. I would like to make a comment on the mergers. Mr. Metarakis, Mr. Lebanese is here now and you are out of attention. Five hundred people met in Agia Paraskevi. You sent the MATs. Because you work for communication, listen. If you want to be honest or you'll arrest them all - not send the MATs and ban the square - or you'll let people do whatever they want to do. You chased the priests, you arrested them, you closed the churches, you banned the loudspeakers, you banned the operation, and we all said, in any case, that we need to take measures to prevent the coronary being transmitted. Suddenly on the subject of meetings you are now holding a curious attitude, fearful of repression and very great and majestic in words. If you want to be equitable, everyone had to be arrested yesterday. I'm against both cases. I'm against the crackdown. No arrests on one occasion, no churches closed. To be objective. You hunted priests, guys. I don't understand that. I really don't get it. And then you all agreed not to hear the bells, not to hear the loudspeakers. Now suddenly the New Democracy is blurred. SYRIZA's marching, you're pushing. He's doing the JRC, you're pushing. When you take a responsibility for repression or you will do it for all Greeks and not just for Christians and priests or you will not do it at all. I'm against it. I said it all along. No bell arrests, no megaphones, no left protesters. That's a democracy. However, if the problem arises, we will be commenting on it in a moment. I have to say that you have done something wrong now. Unfortunately for you, for the New Democracy, Minister, Chiodra is Icarus. Do you remember Icarus when he started from Crete? He really liked the sun. Come on, come on, get back up. He went up very high, the sun burned his wings, melted and immersed in the Ikarian Sea. That's what happened. You burned him with publicity. That scientist we all like and appreciate, you burned him out of excessive publicity. He went out and said other than others. I'll see you in a minute. Minister, you say how serious a government that brings four laws and four amendments - mammoth - in one year's time. Laws: November 1st, February 18th, February 25th. Amendments: 13 December, 3 February on the same subject, for immigrants, for refugees. Tell them what you want. We're not gonna fight about it. I've said it a thousand times. My view is that they're illegal immigrants. Mr. Villard says they're illegal immigrants. He doesn't like the term, he says. Okay. So I say that four bills and four amendments have come in ten months. That means or that you first legislated on paper and on the leg - you were wrong - or now this bill is the big Mitarkis bill that will solve the problem. It won't solve the problem, and I'll answer you because, with evidence. Abstractly, I never speak. Let's actually go. I have heard his good colleague, SYRIZA, missing, talking about convictions from the Geneva Convention. He's an excellent lawyer from what I understand. I shall reply to him, Mr President, and I shall table the Geneva Convention in the Minutes. Yes, deportations are prohibited, but Article 32 states: 'Contracting countries shall not expel refugees legally staying on those territory or not only on grounds of national security or public order'. I shall put it to the Minutes for anyone who talks about the Geneva Convention. Here we have an event. These people come without papers. They're throwing them at sea. So, for the public order of the country, they are dangerous because they are not only illegal, but they also require their legal documents. So, for public order, they're dangerous. In my opinion, therefore, there are reasons why you can deport. It's over and out. The rest are flaming things that are directed at anger, lack of knowledge and understanding of laws. Most of them are lawyers here, you know. They think they are in court and say "the law is what it says and the law is" and nobody understands what they say. They say theirs here, and no one gets the crap out of what's going on. I'm saying that to understand. The Geneva Convention allows deportations. When a law has exceptions, it means that it is allowed to do so. Let's go to the rest. We are talking about national reasons. Today, a classified document by FRONTEX, which has the whole press, says that, Minister, FRONTEX sees a new string of immigrants on the Greek-Turkish border. And it mentions in and the corona virus, the virus. So there are no grounds for shutting down our borders. They're running. Are there no grounds for deportation? They exist either if you want for public order or for health. And I say it about the Left which is more sensitive to deportation. It is their choice, I will not judge it, that the Greek people will judge it if they are right or wrong, and of course citizens will judge it in hot spots, 28, 32, 42, 52, what everyone says here. Because we are talking on the basis of logic, not about having an ideological attitude, ideology, and saying 'everyone enters' or 'no', no one enters'. Based on reason. Minister, I'm going to make an honest appeal. Never say again that we are the only party that disagrees with the transfer of immigrants from the islands, illegal immigrants. Don't ever do it. You're not a liar, I know you personally, but you're lying now. We disagree by moving from the islands to mainland Greece. We told you what we wanted. In fact, human structures - not in Moria or with mud, with diseases - normal structures in the uninhabited islands. Say "I can't do this and the Greek Solution disagrees." I get it. But you must say that everyone agrees and disagrees on the Greek Solution for Landing, if you like, the decongestion of the islands is a lie. And you're not a liar. With PASOK, I have an objection. Article 57. Why, guys? Because he has the NGOs? Make a denomination for NGOs. Why do you put up a bunch of articles and you don't have an article about NGOs, we can do a roll-call? What good is this NGO that nobody knows about? And here for the NGOs to say, Mr Mitarakis, that you have legislated a few months ago. Legislate again now. They were building it all day, at night it was demolished. Arta Bridge. Decide when you're doing the right thing and when you're doing the wrong thing, because if you want me to be a bad option, I'd say that the first Minister to bring the bill is a minister who should resign because he was wrong. Did he quit? Yeah, you say. The Minister didn't resign. He brought a wrong bill. He won't pay the bride? Because the next one, you guys, bring in a better bill. I mean, when you draw paper, there's a problem. Let's go to the articles now. Minister,'recording on the basis of the information he declares', Article 6. ‘On the basis of the information he has indicated.’ I mean, my name is Velopoulos Kyriakos and I'm going to declare my name is Vutsi. That's what he says. The paper they give him will tell everyone what they want, without cross-checking, because there are no legal documents. ‘If someone abandons the application, it is not directly rejected. Time-limit of nine months to be affected.’; For the Greeks, they have sixty days. For Greeks in similar cases they also have sixty days for them. Here seems a racist, unfair attitude of the state towards the Greek citizen. Article 16: The same illegal immigrant can overturn a concept of a safe country. Here's the crime. You make the crime abolish the decision of the Full Court 2340/8/2017 that it defines the S.H.I.E. that Turkey is a safe country. With this article allows anyone Hassan, Velopoulos, Nikolopoulos to overthrow the sense of the law, the legislator, that Turkey is a safe country. And so, those who come from Turkey will get asylum. That's what you're doing. It's wrong. Article 18. Validates the non-application of the push back. We disagree radically. A state that respects its borders applies what Australia does, implements what the United States does, implements what Denmark does. He takes them to an uninhabited island, with control, but with beautiful human structures. People aren't feces, you don't throw people anywhere. So you watch it's in a good environment, but not in inhabited areas. Also, in Article 41, there remains a right to legal residence in the event of divorce in the case of Greek and illegal immigrants or immigrant marriage. Do you know the monkey weddings? Do you know them? How many have become, hundreds, thousands, when Bulgarians, Bulgarians, Ukrainians, from other countries, from Albania, etc.Huh? What are you doing here? There will be "monkey" weddings. Who's gonna check if the marriage isn't a monkey and they don't do it to get permission? It's a few things you need to see. Article 55. I'm not talking about the secret funds, Minister. I don't want to be honest. I never expected it from you. Secret funds from you have never been expected. I'm telling you that, it's unacceptable. Inadmissible. And in Article 56, all the public goes to the service of illegal immigrants, even the Armed Forces. In Article 56, we will pay officers' salaries, police salaries, civil servants' salaries. Greece is paying them, and not the European Union, as you falsely said all parties in this House, that we are getting money from the European Union for illegal immigrants. Direct awards for services to illegal immigrants. Why direct assignments? Why are you doing this? Why should they be done directly? The Syrians did so too, I remember Kammenos, and you were all Members of Parliament, and you were right, and you yelling, you said - not to say the rest - against the SYRIZA government and the direct assignments. And today you're doing exactly the same. You're the same. You're so much the same as you're predictable. No matter what you do, one can predict you. I will also denounce the mayors, who are of course yours and who have made gargoyars with some millions of euros that you have beaten them up. They are unacceptable mayors to go to gatherings, gathering people against hot spots and suddenly one night they saw Nostradamo and thought that they had to be good people and become good people, because suddenly the municipal bank account filled with some millions or some potential money that would be given along the way. That's called a silver mayor. Whoever does this is wrong. Listen to the residents. "They've entered our house, they're stealing us. They broke the cars. Did they run tests that came here? We'll take the law in our hands. We have children." They're statements from the people of the Arnies. "They speak our fields", Moria, "they do incredible orgy in the parks", Sintic, and this he denounced the mayor. "Neither in the islands nor in the mainland. All the illegals leave the country", vice mayor of the hot spot area. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] I'm saying all this because you don't solve the problem, but you're swelling it. And then we'll have racism. The sprout of racism will begin in the local society, Minister. We'll have racist expressions and reactions. And can I tell you something? I'd be ashamed of being in the cabinet when I'd failed as Minister. In one year's time, we will discuss this again, we are sure of that. I'll see you around. Because in mainland Greece there will be explosive mixtures. You don't unite the disparate. Oil with water does not become one. End of story, understand it. It is not easy to assimilate people who come illegally, without papers, who have other cultures, Sharia, other cultures, claustrophes, unfortunately, that are doomed. The woman is a thing for them, she's an object and not a subject, she's not an ass. I want you to understand all this, understand what you're creating. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] I live in Germany, I have something to do with Germany, and I see what happens to the ghettos. I was an immigrant. In the Greek colony where we lived, there were no such phenomena. But if you go to the Muslim colonies that are ghettoed by Muslims, you can't imagine what's going on. I'd like to take one of you one day with me and go to Berlin. And go where the Pakistani and Afghans live. I don't see you passing easily, you're light colored. I'm darker, I'll be taken anyway and nobody's gonna hurt me. I'm telling you, so you know what's going on. They're racist, they're imprisoned. Their race, their religion have it above all and everyone, unlike us that the universal values of our Orthodoxy make us and we are more good people in the sense that we are more tolerant, more receptive to the other. I want you to understand all this because they're making other mistakes. I would like some time, Mr President. You give a special asylum regime to eighteen thousand six hundred foreigners, which means a thousand seven hundred thirty-five per million people in Greece. Listen, in Europe there are six hundred sixty per million. So we're giving two-thirds more than others. You're single again. Funny again you give and say 'we have opened and we are waiting for you'. I won't say that others are coming today, but I'm going to say this. Solutions are specific: uninhabited islands, interruption of allowances, closure of NGOs, make fence real and push back. Now let's go to the coroner quickly. We've all become slaves, Mr. Ministers, and I'll say it directly to understand - an invisible enemy. An invisible enemy for months has been above Greece. And this fear spreads and spreads constantly with your own assistance from the channels, which you gave advertising and did well, it is your right, it is your money and they come out of your pocket - "The good you did" is ironic - and in fact from human to human you carried the fear. Of course, that fear goes faster than the coronary. That's the accident. Every year we have three hundred sixty thousand drownings, not us, America. Listen, Mr President, America has three hundred thousand drownings in swimming pools. Will they close the swimming pools? Is it reasonable to close a whole country, lockdown, because the victims are about the victims of the real flu? Is it wise to continue this story? There is a letter of thirty-seven leading university doctors and teachers - I will present it to your government - who disagree with your logic, that you have closed churches, etc. No means showed her. Especially with divine society. Scientists are, who say it is unacceptable for scientists to come out and say that a coronary is transmitted, which may not be transmitted already. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I will not say about Ioannides, Einstein, I will not say about teachers, about Vassilikopoulou, who has said exactly the opposite. I will say, however, that he goes out to a university professor and says something incredible, and if there was a serious government, he should destroy any scientist: "The number of deaths to justify the government's measures." Here we have two symptoms: Or you heard Tsiodra and you committed an economic crime against Greece - and that is what Professor Pharmacology, Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas, said - or Mr Tsiodras says right things. There's something wrong with you. I shall not speak, of course - I will not say it now, but I shall put it in the Minutes - about the favourite media children. Do you know that a child from what's coming out of SKAI - a university professor is man - gets works from pharmaceuticals, EUR 150,000, 200,000 euros? Mr Fypsis is coming out - I'm not saying anything, his job is - and he and Mr. Tsiodras are taking money from the university for work in pharmaceuticals, EUR 150,000, EUR 120,000, EUR 50,000. Our teachers, Mr. Voutsi! The people who are pushing the Greeks today to hang up at his house. Those who closed our country's economy get money from pharmaceutical companies. I'll put this in the Minutes too, and the government will read it out. Because how do I serve GLAXO, a large multinational company that prepares a vaccine, and I get out and terrorize the world? You tell me. How is that possible? How compatible and moral can that be? If you're a scientist, you don't go out serving a reasonable multinational company that wants to take a vaccine, for moral order, you don't go out defending the vaccine and at the same time inform the Greek people. These are incredible things. Closed up, I won't tell you about the mask contradictions. I'm not gonna say all that. I will tell you something, Minister, but only the one who will succeed in overcoming his fears will really be a free man, Minister. That's not what Velopoulos says. Aristotle says. You've terrified the world, you've booked him in the houses, he's not going out, he's not talking to his wife, he's afraid to touch someone, he's afraid to go out to the park, you're chasing everyone out in the parks. Decide. Pass the country to normality, because the ineffects of the economy will be appalling. We'll all cry together. The economy is going not to tell you where, because I don't like to say the expression. I'm telling you as businessman: 82% below my company's turnover. 82%! People who have shops or large shops die financially, and you continue the same mistake. Let the economy breathe. You've devastated them. Open up, he says, the focus. All right, open it. But it must be opened in a quarter. How is it going to come back financially when the expenses are at 100% and tell him to work with 25% of his clients? It can't be done. Costs don't come up with 25% of the clientele. Don't you understand? You're hurting the economy. Honestly, Mr. Mitarakis, because you also know economics and I know you personally, you do huge damage. The Greek economy has been damaged and cannot be exceeded by a month, it cannot exceed one or two months. It'll take till October so we can breathe. Of course I won't say about the recession. If there was a serious Minister of Finance, he would have resigned. He said 4% ten days ago. It's 9.7%. The European Union says so, where you are going. Unemployment rate of 19.9%, a hundred and sixty thousand jobs will be lost. And I'll say two sentences, and I'll close here. If we do not now, ladies and gentlemen, a list of food companies in the country, which are about a thousand two hundred and twenty-five, with three hundred sixty thousand directly and indirectly employees, with EUR 15 billion of turnover - it speaks for itself, it is as much tourism as EUR 55 billion of exports. Food companies Greek. To make the list and pressure them so that we can start growing and producing primary Greek products, to support Greek production, to support domestic consumption. I see Chinese honey and Greek beekeepers sell it for free and nobody gets it - Chinese honey! - in a Greek supermarket. Here: Czech yogurt sheep. See here: German milk, German sugar. I show them to you to understand. That's not how the economy is going to go. You give EUR 10 billion annually - keep the number - for dairy products and food products and you give them abroad. If you're going to import, why don't you print money? So you want to borrow 10 from the European Central Bank and 10 to buy them. You're 20 billion euros in it. It's just business. They're not that complicated. I want you to understand that there are solutions. And yet another solution: you want to bring thirty thousand seasonal workers, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to our fields, and you will bring them from Albania - you say - with 30 euros. Give 60 euros of money to Greek birds to stay here, because you give 30 euros and they all go to Albania, go out, don't stay here. Give 60 euros and we'll have a bigger profit. You do not count on something: the farmer will give you 30 euros and 30 euros. That money's gonna stay here. They will stay in the Greek economy, which will move and begin to move. It's just stuff. 30 left to Albania directly. Don't you understand that? Of course I won't say most. But I will say something very simple to which I insist: we must finally lift the embargo on Russia. The good colleague knows. Greek farmers in northern Greece gave their peaches to Russia. They can't sell them anymore. I repeat: lifting the embargo on Russia. Germany did so indirectly through Belarus. Other countries do it. Do it, too. Why don't you do it? Why are we shooting at our feet? To leave the products in Russia. Why shouldn't they leave? The Russians want it. If I say something absurd, you guys, okay! As far as the focus is concerned, I will submit to the minutes the proposals of the SETE to see what people say. SETE made suggestions. From that point on, everyone can draw their own conclusions. I must also praise the Prime Minister - I say it publicly - who, in an interview with him directly but clearly the largest Greek governor, Ioannis Kapodistrias, has praised him for his choice to put Angelopoulou and all that bizarre ideological wire - as a historian I am speaking now - who is annoying the Kapodistrias, he is a deaf man and, above all, he is a person who has come to Greece and made a state out of nowhere. Well done for the praise to Kapodistrias, but the choice of Angelopoulos in history with the Committee on the Twenty-Twenty was an unfortunate option. I'm not going to say messellic or zealous. I'll say an unfortunate choice. In which democracy can tell everyone what they want. From this point on, however, to the point of exulting the greatest ruler ever passed by Greece, who made poor houses, homes, bank, currency, did everything, it makes a big difference. Let some of them leave their ideological claws and look at the national dignity of Greece, the Greeks and the countryside that hosts us, because we are guests here, we will deliver somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has tabled a request for a roll-call vote on Articles 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58 and 59 of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum Bill: "Improving immigration legislation, amending the provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A 169), 4375/2016 (A 51), 4251/2014 (A 80) and other provisions". Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u146	I won't get into the bill. Just to say, Mr Velopoulos, and to your rapporteur that the New Democracy and the Government of course always listen to you and respect your status and your party, as we honour all the parliamentary parties and always monitor what they say. In this context, some of your ideas are being applied and some of the ideas you have said today may be useful. Do not judge the absence of Members in these difficult days. We're here, we've heard you, like both Ministers. After all, as Mr Metarakis rightly pointed out before, when you were talking, they were only three of your Members here. So that means - and this goes to Mr Mylonakis - that the New Democracy MPs are watching, are here and have all their confidence in the government and everyone supports the bill. As far as the general issues you have raised are concerned, we realise that you are opposed to this policy followed by the Greek state, which was supported by the majority of the Greek people to deal with the virus. Your right is this, but I repeat once again that for us the health of Greek citizens, public health and the health system is a priority. Secondly, it is social cohesion, which we are trying to support with nails and teeth. And thirdly, it is the relaunch of the economy, because, indeed, a lot of what you say is right, there is a great problem and we will deal with it. We, however, disagree on the backward view of things, as you imply, and as has also been demonstrated in Europe, but also across the Atlantic as a misguided logic. As far as the part of the recession is concerned - because you raised the issue of the Minister of Finance and said that you had to resign - I think you are repeating a low level of analysis on the issue of the recession. Not just from you. It can also be done by SYRIZA, unfortunately. No one can predict what the recession will be. In a context of seriousness, we must put ourselves on this issue. The government does what it does is, in my opinion, the right thing to do. So, what's he doing? It takes several scenarios, more positive and more negative, which in the end, based on the length and depth of this recession, we will see where it will arrive and with these scenarios it makes its own crisis response scenarios. That's what she does. That's what he submitted to the committee. That should do every serious government and I am sure that supports the entire Greek people. I'm sorry if you're on the other side.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I will give you the floor for two minutes. I will, however, ask Mr Janakopoulos if he wants to be put now for a minute or if you want to listen to the Minister and be posted immediately afterwards. Whatever you want. Because I've already announced the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u150	For thirty seconds, Madam President. But could I interrupt you for a second, Mr. Velopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u151	Have I ever ruined you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u152	I'm glad you're ruining the chariots! Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u153	I will not comment on the substance of any of the two positions that have been taken, nor on Mr Velopoulos. Mr. Velopoulos has his views. They are also judged by Greek MPs, they are also judged by Greek citizens. I would like a clarification, perhaps in his speech, from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, to tell us which of Mr Velopoulos' proposals, which have been made publicly, are in agreement with. Because he said he heard Mr Velopoulos' speech. He said that he took it into consideration and that there were proposals he tabled with which he agreed. I would therefore ask the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to tell us exactly where he agrees with what Mr Velopoulos said in his speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Janakopoulos, don't you want the Minister to be placed? Because I imagine they are expressing the same political opinion. I think it's right. Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Janakopoulos' logic is generalization. And that's not right. Does he argue that we should get Greek goods, Greek goods? Where does Mr. Janakopoulos disagree? Unless he wears ‘BOSS’. I say, in other words, that support for the economy starts in the primary sector, we get our own products. I didn't say anything wrong. I've said other things, with the cuts, etc. Why disagree? In logic, let's agree. To irrationality and generalization to disagree. As for Mr Lebanese, I did not disagree with the government's measures. You're wrong. Didn't I say well? Didn't you understand well? I said at first I agreed. I disagree with your current practice. Because if they're illegal people who gather today, you need to pick them up. If they're not illegal, let people out. Don't terrorize the world. That's what I said. Second, you're right. You can't know the number of recession they're going to go to. He can go to 30%, he can go to 1%. Nobody knows. But I will tell you what they say in my village: 'When you have nothing to say, you should keep quiet.' And, unfortunately, the ministers speak to you in channels every day and say other things every day. Silence is "gold" sometimes and I say it as a friend or as a human to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Immigration and Asylum Minister, Mr Metarakis, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been faced this year as a country, as a people, with multiple crises. We were faced with the migratory crisis, with the asymmetrical threat to our borders, with the coronary pandemic. With unity and determination, we have faced and face the challenges. Faced with the migratory crisis, we have clear targets. Firstly, the substantial reduction in flows and, secondly, the reduction of the impact of the crisis on local communities. It is true that for geopolitical reasons we have been faced with an upturn of 85% in the first eight months of governance. But we reacted and reacted decisively in the national interest. Following a decision by the CSCE, we upgraded border guarding, apparently all, and in April we saw a 97% reduction in flows. We have reversed the trend in flows and, from the beginning of the year, the flows have been reduced by 20%. We've changed policy since 2019, since the first day. And this was seen by Law 4636/2019, which the rapporteurs and the special speakers mentioned, a law that was implemented with measurable results. This is our aim, ladies and gentlemen, to have measurable results. In the crisis there is no room for populism. We need measurable results. We have discussed the rights of asylum seekers in extensive terms, which we are self-evidently applying as a country which has signed the international treaties. But our country also has rights first and foremost - rather our constitutional obligation - is to protect the borders and ensure the security and well-being of Greek citizens. As a government we have sworn to work for the general interest of the Greek people and after the vote of Law 4636/2019, which we are not today changing, we are improving, first on the islands' applications for 2020, in twenty-four days instead of eighty-five days, in force last year. The Asylum Service with the old law issued four thousand decisions on average per month. We managed in March and adopted seven thousand decisions, in April we adopted sixteen thousand asylum and return decisions. Decisions by the Board of Appeal on islands on the basis of a joint declaration may now begin to be adopted. In this way, with the speeding up of the asylum procedure, the islands are effectively decongested, without the proliferation of structures in mainland Greece, as has been done for days SYRIZA. Because almost all the structures of mainland Greece are for days SYRIZA. And the objective of drastically increasing the returns and expulsions of those who are not entitled to international protection is met. It goes without saying that the effective and fair implementation of our international obligations. We close 'Windows'. I would remind you that the prosecutor today is investigating how they were issued only in Lesvos in three years' time twenty-five thousand vulnerability certificates, so that these twenty-five thousand to leave the islands and avoid their return to Turkey if they were not finally accepted. Of course, the slow asylum procedure that I described led you to benefit and stay for a long time, even those who will ultimately not accept their request. We discussed the question of language interpretation in committee today with the addition of the concept of language that asylum seekers understand. Because you know, and those of you who have been in charge in particular, cases of abusive right. You know that in the first half of 2009 there were about five hundred cases in the Lesvos Nationals of African countries, who were finally released, because they could not find an interpreter for dialects, very rare dialects, who themselves claimed that they were the only ones speaking and were not detectable. However, they themselves had completed their application and initial registration, whether in English or French, the official language of their country in many of these countries. I have a lot of wonder how these five hundred could get together with their lawyers and NGOs who supported them, while the same NGOs could not find us interpreters paid by the Greek State to facilitate the interview. Of course, some rejection decisions were made, appeals were made to the appeal authority and the appeal authority rejected the appeals, recognizing an abuse of a right. Particularly important objectives of the bill are to replace open structures with closed and controlled structures. Already, we start directly in four parts: We are giving priority to the security of the residents who will all agree today, not to be fulfilled in Moria, BIAL, Vathy or in other structures, of course, in the security of local communities. With significant decongestion of structures, because the structures that have been designed have fewer than half the dwellings that are currently in place. Of course, by means of detention procedures provided for in the existing legislation, in the context of international treaties and in the context of rules of procedure which impose order within structures. This conversion will make it clear and who are currently staying in the structures, while they are not entitled to hospitality, because they have a final decision. Because the SYRIZA rapporteur, I have also told the committees, has repeatedly referred to Scaramaga, a structure that is not run by the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, a structure that has some cards for the residents, but has never installed a scanner to control them and a sample check that we have recently carried out, many non-subscribing hosts. So they stand positions for the decongestion of the islands, which all the classes at the National Representation claim to be your goal. But let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA and KINAL, which are being cut off for the decongestion of the islands, voted against a provision in February that made a catalyst for creating positions in existing structures in mainland Greece. We have, however, moved on, voted for the amendment and after the restrictions have been lifted because of the pandemic, as from 1 June, we will do so. Of course, since 1 January we have now reduced the islanders, not by 5% that we said in March, but by 10%. We have absorbed the flows of the first two months and now we are at the levels of October 2019. And we continue, to be below the levels we received before the increase in flows, which we have admitted. Of course, we have also agreed on a programme of additional five thousand voluntary returns, with funding from the European Union. Will you tell me, ladies and gentlemen, but were there no movements on SYRIZA? Of course, they were, but for another reason. They were used to find asylum seekers, after the first rejection decision, in the inland. The principle of redress, in passing, validates the first decision by 92%, and this shows that the Asylum Service is doing its job very well, of course, in a single-member composition. They were in mainland Greece and could no longer be returned, on the basis of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. We emphasise the policy of separating refugees who are entitled to international protection from irregular immigrants and want to return to those who have no legal right to stay in our country. The internationalisation of the crisis, of course, has a catalyst in the national effort, with the country at the forefront of the negotiation in the European Union. We are calling for a fairer distribution of burdens in the Member States, with a mandatory mechanism. Recent movements of unaccompanied minors to countries in the European Union, on the days of the coronary, are of great importance. Like the change in the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, it is necessary to ensure that the flows that have not been secure in the past months are reduced, but that they do not lead to the congestion of asylum seekers in the five Aegean islands, which, as a result of this declaration, have been turned into soul stores. The islanders know that because of the joint declaration that SYRIZA accepted in 2016 at the European Council, in conjunction with the very slow asylum procedure, which you are still supporting, we have finally led to caging in the islands. SYRIZA said yesterday: "We did what we could." I read it from the Minutes. But what did you do? With the joint statement you have enclosed asylum seekers on the islands. Your agreement today creates congestion and your rhetoric interest in decongestion, rather as an annoying syndrome sounds today. Ladies and gentlemen, the second important objective of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum is to limit the impact of the crisis on local communities. It is a goal that we serve with the support of EUR 50 million of the municipalities concerned, as compensation for the effects these municipalities have had to bear on their infrastructure, on their additional cleaning costs or on whatever the municipalities consider to be necessary for these funds to be used. We move on to compensation to residents for the damage suffered by structures in 2019. It is an objective that we are serving with strict certification of non-governmental organisations and with those involved in non-governmental organisations in the field. We already have these parameters taking concrete steps. Of the 50 million municipalities we have already given the 12 million. The NGO Register and the NGO Register are already in operation. The joint ministerial decision has been adopted and the certification process has already begun. On the basis of the February amendment - and everyone is judged whether or not they supported it at that time - there is no need to feel that they should be apologized to the channels. We have shown zero tolerance to violations, as recently in Samos and Chios. There's no tolerance to violence, no matter where it comes. Of course, asylum seekers under the Geneva Convention are obliged to respect the laws of the Greek state. We have also talked to the committees on the subject of pandemic and I recognise the concerns about overcrowded structures. However, with this data, we have immediately taken protective measures. We protected structures in practice and local communities in the pandemic crisis, with zero cases in the Aegean structures in this first phase. With no loss of human life in any hosting structure, on the islands or on mainland Greece, and no transmission of the virus from structures to local communities, as shown by tests carried out on quarantine residents. You mentioned, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the case of Skull, the hotel managed by the International Organisation for Migration. Indeed, three quarters of the cases in Greece were found in this hotel, no serious, thankfully. Eventually, the cases were not in Moria. He was at the hotels. As I said at a recent meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs of the European Parliament, at the time of the pandemic you must take action, but it is not always discernible where you will have cases. Because many people were saying to speed up movements between structures and eventually the cases didn't come where you calculated. They're here somewhere else. So, ultimately, the aim was to protect all structures. An important point of the bill is the strengthening of digital function and the integration of the full recording process, which will be carried out by the Reception and Identification Service, releasing human resources from the Asylum Service and reducing the stages of the process, without any negative impact on the quality of decisions. We provide for computer technology to be introduced at different stages of the process, with the aim of simplifying, reducing labour burdens, saving human resources, reducing costs, improving the performance process in a modern digital manner, which will make a decisive contribution to the correct application of asylum procedures and avoiding delays. We recommend a register of lawyers, as rapporteurs - asylum operators, from the local associations, where structures are found, as EASO recorders do today, to speed up the asylum procedure even more. At the same time, the proposed arrangements reduce the time for adopting decisions on asylum seekers' appeals, following a rejection decision to the first degree, giving priority to the islands, with a view to further decongestion. I believe that we will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the long-term waiting for a asylum decision does not serve either the applicants themselves or the Greek society. The draft law also defines the Special Secretariat for the Protection of Unaccompanied Minors as the national competent authority for Unaccompanied Minors and defines its responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard criticism of the bill. Expected. There are ideological differences in many, basic arrangements for speeding up the asylum procedure. There have also been some criticisms of administrative matters. I too want to believe that criticism is well-qualified and has not fallen into the trap of populism or the trap of trying to create impressions. Staff issues were raised and then debated in committee we tabled a legislative improvement which states that posters will not be able to take responsibility. I do not disagree, ladies and gentlemen, with criticism. She's right. Indeed, it is not possible for a Ministry to rely on contractors or posters but permanent civil servants. And the question is: Have we started all these procedures? And the answer is, yes. In order to meet the increased needs, we are now voting for provisions to provide additional incentives to facilitate transfers and secondments. We are giving the right to seconded persons, by way of derogation, to be able to take a responsibility. We extended eighty-eighty contracts to the Asylum Service and the First Reception Service. We hired a hundred and fifty extra personnel with strict molecules. We will, in the February amendment, have three contractual positions plus three years. We are also calling for the proclamation of permanent positions from the AACC. You know that if we begin today's AACC notice, the officials will sometime in the second half of 2021 at the service. That's a reality. SYRIZA had built a Ministry only in terms of title and not in terms of substance. You have built a CYPD, built structures without a technical service, without a technical board, with no legal support. These should exist beforehand. The Ministry, in fact, had two technical blocks of support without the necessary responsibilities under the Presidential Decree of 2017, did not fulfil the conditions for adequacy of 4412/2016 and had thirty an organic position in which four employees were serving. Four employees in thirty an organic position! Indeed, you have declared 9K for forty-six employees who will be recruited - I hope - in May, none of whom are engineers. You hadn't predicted the intake of engineers. Also, at the Ministry, in university education, in law school, in law, in law, we have a lawyer. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, with a lawyer specialty, has a lawyer. How did you work? I will answer you, ladies and gentlemen. You were operating with non-governmental organisations, which currently run 90% of the country's structures officially. Officially! They are financed from funds which are for Greece. But Greece doesn't take it. International organisations and NGOs take them. In other words, thousands of posters had been appointed to immigration, municipalities, central government through NGOs and international organisations with funds of our own, without any knowledge of the Greek state and without any control. SYRIZA's rapporteur said about outsourcing. 90%, Mr Colleague, it's not outsourcing, it's privatisation. I'll give you the numbers, which I'll testify for. In 2015-2019, the European Union made available EUR 1.5 billion for our country. The Ministry of Migration Policy absorbed 1.9% of these funds. 82% of funds, EUR 1.3 billion, went to international organisations and non-governmental organisations - international and Greek - to manage, on behalf of the Greek state, migration, without the public procurement law - which you would say, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL - only with posters, as you would say, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, as the municipalities were forced to hire - for example, in Athens, a hundred and ninety employees with a project contract - to deal with the years of the crisis of immigration. We want to deliver a full and effective ministry. And finally, to give you numbers, our ministry serves a thousand six hundred forty-seven employees. We added eight posters to five administrative offices - one or two posters per office - and fifteen temporary posters, 31 December, the Legal Service - to the International Relations Service, I remind you, that we have the negotiation initiated in the second half of the year on the new Dublin Regulation - and the Technical Service. In other words, 1.3% of the Ministry is posthumous. The 1.3%! 98.7% are civil servants. Well, you don't call it a retired ministry if you don't want to plunder! You can comment on the poster, but you can't tell about the 1.3% that it's a poster ministry. We want to deliver a full and effective ministry with permanent civil servants. Within 2021 we want this transition to take place. I will be very brief on the subject of contracts. We renewed eight hundred eighty out of eighty-seven. No contracts were renewed for seventeen persons for legal obstacles or termination of a project. In SYRIZA, you know the subject. You tried as a government to heal it in an amendment and you did not find a solution. And finally, at the end of the day, the Minister, with a negative recommendation from the agency, with a personal signature, ordered that they be re-entered irregularly. The only case we have, however, of leaving the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum is the hundreds of people who did not renew their contracts in November 2017. I imagine in your dentistry you'll tell us why. We shall now proceed to the subject of conventions. We have tabled an amendment to KINAL. First of all, for Articles 56 and 59: There are already the Directives of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority for the application of these Articles. We do not change the framework of public procurement with this bill. I take this opportunity to say that by act of the Ministerial Council - at our last meeting - the process of completely renewing public procurement legislation begins. We also need to incorporate the logic of immigration there too. With Articles 56 and 59, we are amending parameters of existing legislation. We're not making structural changes. With Article 56 - the legislation of SYRIZA - we are currently giving extensions to earlier law deadlines. Will you ask, ladies and gentlemen, do you follow the same policy that SYRIZA pursued in the conventions and you have criticised? The answer is no. And I'll tell you in particular, and I'll give it to you in the Minutes. We believe that the framework for the conventions on immigration should be changed, with clear reinforcement of the rules on transparency with framework agreements. The first agreement of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum to clean up all the structures and services of the country's Asylum Service for a period of four years was published in the TED system yesterday. I shall submit a relevant document on the Minutes. It's the first framework agreement. What we need to do in immigration, for all the essential needs of immigration, is to get into open, international competitive procedures. We begin with cleanliness, with a decision we signed in April, long before this bill comes to Parliament. To do all this, however, you must also have a ministry that can with its administrative structure, centrally and regionally, have the necessary officials. We proceeded with the Ministry of Finance with the next week we place thirty two governors in the structures of mainland Greece, which so far has been in the control of NGOs. In order to support this, however, it needs a strong central agency that can meet the needs of these structures under Greek management. We therefore do not ask for an extension to continue with an old logic, but to move forward as soon as possible - I hope very much before the deadline expires - in a new framework of public procurement. But I, ladies and gentlemen, will start with something Mr Kamine asked. Mr. Kamines is right. He has experience as mayor of Athenians. He has dealt with all these emergencies himself in his municipality. He knows. You asked me how many of the flows of time would be. May I ask you how many flows will be in August 2025, to open a competition and be ready, with the necessary structure, for August 2025? Because if we started today with your amendment - and I shall refer to it later - until we have published the staff through the SAPA and started the competitions, the first next structure would be in 2024 or 2025. On our island the judiciary began in 2011 and has not yet been completed, with the procedures you propose in your amendment. We also have emergencies. Not often. However, no one can tell me that what happened in March, where they entered in two days, on eleven Aegean islands almost two thousand immigrants and the structures were already full, it was something that SYRIZA could have predicted in 2017 or our Government in July 2019. You can't predict everything. You can predict the smooth development, as you said about building infrastructure. For schools, we have a birth estimate, we know how many kids are going to go to school in six years. In immigration you can't always do that. We therefore needed some emergency needs to proceed to the urgent tender with a negotiated procedure without publication, as provided for in Law No.4368/2016 and Law 4650/2019. All this legislation is prior to this government. And the Committee on the conduct of these urgent tenders - because you were wrong by some in your speeches - consists exclusively of civil servants, no poster took part in a competition committee. For Article 59, EFSA has expressed an opinion, namely 12/2018. It lays down specific terms and conditions, which are naturally respected. And Article 59 today harmonizes the application of Law 4587/2018, which established specific procedures for issuing forms to the operation now in a digital manner. Finally - and I shall end with this and thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance - the issue of specific expenditure has been raised. There are two topics to be answered. Firstly, if there is really a problem of immigration, if there are really poachers, if there are real circuits that prevent deportation, if there are real circuits in the structures that create safety issues. If we agree that this problem exists, and we agree that our country's aim is to protect national security, we need to see from that perspective the feasibility of this provision. We are working together, Mr Psychoyer, which you have put it - with the prosecution authorities, but this expenditure is our budget and not the budget of other ministries. But in order not to misunderstand the people who are listening, I would like to inform you that under the Rules of Procedure this expenditure is known to the parties. So you will know these costs. So there is no question of transparency within the House. There is a question of protecting these costs outwards and above all not within Greece, but outside Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is a national issue. Our clear priority is to reduce flows and limit the impact of the crisis on local communities. These objectives serve today's bill. It contributes catalytically to the decongestion of our islands. I would urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Minister. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament and the legislative work are beginning to function completely incompatible with the seriousness of the bills which are being discussed and, above all, with the objective of informing and intervening in all these matters directly and life. Basically, the government has found the opportunity given to it by the pandemic, where objectively the attention of our people is focused on issues of health and survival, so that very serious bills can be secretly passed through. Twenty-six bills you bring to the end of July. They are drafts for very serious issues, such as the issues of education, the environment that we discussed yesterday, immigration and refugee today and much more. Who knows exactly who. You keep a lot of them as a seven-sealed secret. And while here in this House there will be aggregation of bills and procedures, which, in your opinion, are not acceptable to you, at the same time the political and social protest on these bills, the expression of reaction and resistance to them, will be regarded by you as dangerous and irresponsible aggregation. Two yards and two weights. Therefore, the least you need to do is not attempt to pass in the midst of a health crisis bill that, due to their importance, we should ensure both the time and the necessary information, but also the mobilisation of the Greek people and their institutions, where they certainly appreciate and where they decide what is needed. We have told you since the first time - and we reiterated this yesterday at the Conference of Presidents because it is a matter of fundamental democracy - such a bill which, due to its seriousness, should not come at this stage and with these concise procedures, is today's draft law of the Ministry of Migration Policy. Just after the major mobilisations on the Aegean islands against the creation of every kind of prison of clandestine, the government is now challenging with the bill, following the unacceptable act of legislative content that requires land, to legislate against the closed multi-powered detention centres on the islands, which will coexist with the new entrants, the vulnerable, but also those who have rejected their applications and are in deportation, while with the same bill you are moving forward and the creation of closed centres on mainland Greece. And all that you have done in the midst of a pandemic that has not yet been overcome and which is likely - as everyone is saying - to return in the autumn perhaps further, when the major public health risks at the present time appeared to be the situation in the refugee structures, risks to both the health of the guests themselves and to the health of the workers there and the inhabitants of the wider region. You are actually building on the islands and the mainland of the European Union's new barbaric prisons, which, in addition to all others, will be active sanitary bombs ready to explode because of the lack of basic infrastructure and the conditions of protection and hygiene. The bill also increases the abuse of their rights by new abbreviations of time, reductions in decision-making time, widening the detention regime for further categories. In the case of minors, this presumption, which has provided the necessary protection, is abolished until any doubts about the age of children have been raised in order to provide them with the necessary protective measures. A number of traps and obstacles are introduced, with tragic consequences for the progress of asylum applications concerning the presence of private legal persons in the establishment of an asylum assistant record up to the non-supervisory interpreter speaking the language of the applicants. The wording of interpretation in a language considered to be understandable by the applicant rather than the one actually spoken is characteristic, with all that that may mean for the course of the application. Even the possibility of granting a residence permit for humanitarian reasons is retroactively abolished from 1-1-2020. As far as the Asylum Service is concerned, not only are there no needs for permanent staff to be met, but yesterday the Minister made it clear that he will not renew the contracts of the seventeen experienced officials made redundant. In the same bill, however, which flies to Kavala and the victims, the outdated, there are a series of facilitation arrangements. You make it easier, for example, for foreign money, for those you think they're 'leaving' and for their families, giving them residence permits and gold visas, that is, doing some business. You also facilitate the provision of cheap and flexible labour, trainees, without regulated rights. You also make it easier for American scholars of the Fulbright Foundation to issue quick and flexible entry visas, in the context of the deepening of Greece's involvement in the planning of the United States, America, NATO and mitigating, of course, anti-Americanism - expressed for the multicultural target of the American Embassy here in Greece - an anti-imperialism that exists anyway within the Greek people. Finally, you continue the policy of all the governments to date, with the so-called'secret funds', which the government has introduced into the Ministry of Immigration in the bill. This development is linked to the escalation, in our view, of repression and fresco, and by military means, with the assistance of FRONTEX and NATO, with illegal reprocesses, in the name of allegedly deterrence, a policy which SYRIZA has started as long as the waves of refugees are growing and which the New Democracy is now taking off. This bill moves in the context of the unacceptable, European Union-Turkey criminal agreement signed by SYRIZA, is implemented by the New Democracy Government, as part of the conversion of our country into a European Union prison for refugees and immigrants. The Greek Government negotiates with the Turkish Government about the fate of the outdated refugees as "good girlfriends", at the same time as the Turkish challenges to the detriment of the country's sovereign rights. And all this at a time when the European Union-Turkey Agreement has long been sent to the unanswered by the Turkish Government. On this occasion, you have the courage to resign from the JRC, mainly through the "leafs" of your resignation, such as the "ESTIA" and others of the sinful extreme right, because - they say - we sent a message of solidarity to the Communist Party of Turkey and, at the end - it says - the message by the Secretary-General of the Party - I, that is - was directed - as is customized by everyone - in their own language by the motto "Help the Labour Initiative and the unity of the workers!" And stuff like that. And they say this about a party, the Communist Party of Turkey, who is persecuted by the Erdogan regime, which is fighting for peace, friendship, solidarity, which is associated with the Cypriot people, our Cyprus people, is fighting for any border change in the Aegean and, more generally, in the region, denouncing the aggressive provocation of the Turkish ruling class and Erdogan. Definitely, Argits! But for Erdogan they eventually work all these reactionary "cricks" you, even when they don't realize that, they don't understand it or when they do it just to pet some ears of a retrograde, reactive, retarded audience of their voters probably. In the face of this explosive situation, which is taking shape for refugees, for immigrants, for our islanders, for the Greek people as a whole, the only way out and solution to address the problem lies in the JRC's position to abolish, here and now, the Dublin Regulation, the European Union-Turkey Agreement, in order for refugees to go to their countries of destination, to allow asylum applications to be made in the territory of Turkey and to move directly to their countries of destination, to respect the rights of asylum seekers, as provided for in the Geneva Treaty. Members of the government, the hypocrisy and the logic of the two measures and two stations in the legislature appear to be as follows: While you do not lose any moment in tabling and voting for reactionary and anti-grass bills, which are rejected by the vast majority of the bodies involved and involved in the consultation, you do not show the same zeal to bring a solution to the real, directly, very serious problems concerning the entire branches and categories of workers. Such problems, for example, are directly and urgently affecting the problems faced by artists, creators, as a whole, by workers in the field of art and culture, an area which has been suffering from unemployment and occasional employment. The pandemic of the coronary has greatly increased the problems of these workers. Any activity in all areas of their employment, festivals, cinemas, theatres, concerts, musical and theatrical scenes, entertainment places, education, television shootings etc. was interrupted, so the majority of the workers in all places and specialties of culture do not have any elementary income, while it remains unknown when and under what conditions the artistic activity will normally return. The JRC, from the moment on, has supported all their claims, their associations, their multi-formal mobilisations, and has adopted their legitimate request for immediate and effective support measures for all workers in the field of art and culture, in order to ensure their survival as a minimum. Despite their great mobilizations and after these great mobilizations, you announced some "similar" yesterday. The JRC has tabled a comprehensive draft law for the whole area of culture. With the proposal for a law, among other things, the JRC proposes: support allowance for all workers in the art and culture sector, similar to for self-employed artists, creators and for every small enterprise other than anonymous companies. Also proposed are exemptions from interest, fines, obligations to insurance funds, trade fee, HICP, housing allowance, suspension of any measure of forced execution and collection, freezing of bank accounts, seizures, etc. For the long-term unemployed in this sector it is proposed that unemployment benefit be introduced without the conditions and conditions of existing legislation to be met, even if any restrictive measures are lifted. Also, extending the grant of the EUR 800 special purpose compensation to all categories of self-employed workers, micro-enterprises active in the art and culture sector, which were excluded from previous government regulations. Specific support programmes of the Ministry of Culture and subsidised productions for the period 2020-2021, such as purchases and awards by the State and bodies of the artistic works or artistic services in all kinds of art, following an open call of interest or with an art-based tender. Increase the percentage of Greek repertoire, as well as the percentage of renting mythosplasia and documentation in the broadcasting time. We demand that, since you are in a legislative 'oestre' and continuous express procedures, you bring this motion for a Law of the JRC to the House immediately for discussion. For such express procedures, you will be applauded by the workers in the area. We call on all Members of all the parties to vote for and to stop hiding behind their fingers and their well-known ideas. To conclude, it is worth mentioning here also the Step forward that on 9 May 1945 the anti-fascist victory of the peoples was being completed by entering the heart of the Nazi monster the sword of the peoples, by making a decisive contribution mainly to the then Soviet Union and the Red Army, to the rebellious, partisan armed forces, to all the occupied countries of Europe. It is only their honour that this anti-communist wall, which is poured every year on this day, must be honoured. On this day, with this content, we had to honour rather than change the character of it, to celebrate it hypocritically as a day from Europe, a Europe of capitalist states which are now growing up all their contradictions. After all, it is the framework of the euro area that emerged as a suffocating corset for the weakest economic Member States on the European and international market. The restrictive fiscal and monetary policy exacerbated the crisis and its consequences for the people's forces, by increasing unemployment, lowering wages and pensions and so much more. Accelerating the outbreak of the new deep international crisis with a catalyst of the coronary pandemic has objectively increased the divergence of states' interests within the euro area. The crisis is translated from capital as an opportunity to secure cheaper labour force, to demolition rights, to expand flexible working relationships. The manifestation of the crisis in Greece is shaped in this European and international environment. The great importance of tourism in the Greek economy, as well as international transport, as well as exports of petroleum refining products, which are the largest exportable commodity, also interact with the depth of the crisis in the domestic economy, is estimated by all analyses at significantly higher than the Community average. It does not matter if the Greek Government does not understand and constantly attempts to inject optimism without a reflection. A significant part of small enterprises will be directly closed or charged with very significant damage, as any temporary government support measures are not sufficient to reverse this trend. The increase in the red loans of the Greek banks is discounted by the relevant analyses. We note that even if government debts and EU-wide expenditure are regulated, Greece is committed to repaying already existing loans and specific primary surpluses - results, which will ultimately have to be paid in the coming years. Already the FITCH, assessing the prospects of the Greek economy, re-established the State's creditworthiness. Of course, the expected GDP reduction in 2020 does not prevent increased investments and profitability in certain specific sectors, but does not change the main trend. More generally, the trend towards concentration and concentration of capital, the increase in the share of monopolistic groups in the economy as a whole, will be enhanced at this stage. Both internationally and in Greece, the governments and, more generally, the political system converge in the adoption of a large-scale state intervention, greater than the current expansion of the fiscal and monetary policy to support this recovery of the capitalist economy. In general, however, this is not a progressive development, as SYRIZA claims. Expansive fiscal policy, greater government intervention, of course, reloads the burdens on the people's backs. The people are called upon to repay the new loans and to raise the burden of injurious private enterprises in the event of their temporary Statement. We therefore say that greater vigilance, responsibility, realism, agonist and mobilisation are needed, that of our people, that of changing the question as long as it is time. Otherwise, the people will pay it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennamas, has the floor for 15 minutes. Immediately afterwards, ladies and gentlemen, we will take a ten-minute break so that the area can be disinfected, as the health service has indicated, and we will come back for follow-up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. I express my deep grief for the loss of my dear friend Dimitris Kremastinos. Today we have lost a great man, a brilliant scientist, a burning patriot, a fighter of the democratic party, a MP, Vice President of Parliament and Minister. He was "our doctor". Dimitris did not stand alone on the side of our founder Andreas Papandreou. He gained the Greeks' appreciation and trust through his continued social, scientific and academic presence, his teaching and research work and, of course, through his term of office at the Ministry of Health and Social Security, where he contributed to support for the National Health System. His name was linked to the functioning of the country's most important cardiac clinics, the strengthening of the EKA, the operation of the aerospaces, the creation of the OKANA, the introduction of telemedicine, which believed it so fabulously until the last minute, the reform of the Psychiatry of Leros, the establishment and support of the Rhodes Hospital. His absence is certain that he leaves an unpaid void in science, our extradition, and, of course, in his special homeland, the Dodecanese, who loved and honored him all these years. The Greeks and Greek women will remember Dimitris Cremastino with love and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the danger to our health is still here. To stay safe, we follow the experts' instructions. The individual responsibility of each individual remains extremely important. The government, however, the municipalities of the country, the EGE, have a responsibility to inform in good time, and of course to safeguard their areas of responsibility. Prevention takes precedence over repression. We told the young children to be careful to protect their grandparents and we did it. Now we have to tell them they need to protect themselves and their friends. Democracy is based on persuasion and dialogue and let us not forget that. Gentlemen of the government, nothing has changed in immigration policy. Follow the footsteps and commitments of the previous government. It has been six months since your much-advertised asylum law was passed and no effective plan has been seen. Your initial indifference was that of authoritarianism, the orders and the promises without reflection. The asylum procedure has not been accelerated. Decongestion of the islands didn't happen. Responsibility for the European Union has not been shared. A resettlement mechanism with Member States of the European Union has not taken place. The joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey has collapsed. Organized hospitality structures were not made, just renamed the existing ones. More irregularly entering and staying migrants were not returned. A preventive plan for dealing with pandemic in structures does not exist. There is, of course, a plan for creating your party army. I must admit that you have experience and strategy here. Your bill is essentially concerned with it. It does not improve immigration legislation and in any case does not improve either the lives of the islanders or the lives of refugees and immigrants. For all these reasons, therefore, the Change Movement is voting against this bill. More specifically, because, firstly, it creates a ministry of postmasters. The final state promised by Mr Mitsotakis again proves the well-known old client state of the right. The New Democracy in government and posters in power. An army of transmigrants is hired at all levels, of which many are in managerial positions. It replaces the New Democracy with its "friends" public administration officials and even, without even being asked for special qualifications, since the so-called "final state" has abolished all these luxuries. There is no need to have a degree, there needs to be absolutely nothing but one thing to have voted on by the Minister. Secondly, we are voting against this bill because a regime that favours corruption is perpetuating. The practice initiated by SYRIZA continues, opaque procedures in a series of contracts without tenders. And that is not only now within the pandemic, it has started since December. Each time invoke the needs of unforeseen flows. But there is nothing unpredictable anymore, everything is perfectly predictable, as predictable are your own unacceptable tactics, gentlemen of the government. Without taking into account, in fact, that these practices are the target of a European Anti-Fraud Office investigation. It does not sweat your ears or by the intervention of the President of the Independent Public Procurement Authority and the Citizens' Counselor who pointed out to the relevant committee that the draft law is suffering from serious legal problems with regard to its provisions on public procurement. These customer policies are the ones that threw the country on the rocks, the crisis and the memoranda. It is clear that you have learned nothing from the 2004-2009 disaster. And thirdly, we are voting against the bill because it is introduced - with formality - opaque. And I ask you, the government, the Minister responsible and, of course, above all, I ask the Prime Minister: What account of confidential funds is it that you establish? What are the needs of the Ministry for which you cannot give reasons? For what uses are these amounts to be used? Minister, we will never accept that a government actor determines whoever wants and gives money where he wants. This is Greek people's money. And for all these reasons, the Change Movement tabled a request for a roll-call vote, for all these articles that underpin opacity and refugee, because they are not just in refugee. We have long been pointing out that the way you handle the refugee - immigration - is at risk of ending up in a national tragedy. That is why you are dealing with this as a national and not a European issue. The countries of northern and central Europe solved their problem and created extortion outbreaks at our borders by Erdogan. In November, Mr. Mitsotakis spoke about the decongestion of the islands. Today, after five months, the number of people trapped on the islands remains about the same. Of course, I cannot help noticing that Mr Chryssohoidis and Mr Stefani have been blocked. The flows have now been stopped for some time for the well-known reasons, of course, this is good, but it is coming in the summer and concern and reflection is growing. Is it true, Minister, that the new regularity of how many inmates are predicting that it can withstand the islands? And how much tolerance and endurance are provided for the inhabitants of the islands in your own normality? But there is also a problem with the living of refugees and immigrants, especially in the pandemic. We have seen what happened with the risk of infection by the virus, no plan and no absolutely preventive control was available. Illustrations of shame in Richona, Kranidia, the same in Chios, Samos, Moria, Kos, and, of course, in Lero. What happened? Just in the humanitarian crisis, health was added. Ladies and gentlemen, since October we have been shouting about the need to guard our borders - land and sea - with the active contribution of the European Union and, of course, the operational upgrading of FRONTEX. The Turkish expedition came to Evros, and you finally reacted and had our support for it. The problem, however, has once again highlighted that Turkey is taking advantage of unhappy people and at the expense of our country that Europe has given them the keys to refugees - migrants. In Erdogan's courage, only our country's determination counts. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The issues of Greek-Turkish relations and immigration - refugee - are interconnected, obviously, and must not escape from anyone that Erdogan blackmails Europe on its own issues, using as a tool the refugee - immigration, but at the same time trying to destabilise Greece within the framework of his review strategy and, of course, his illegal pursuits in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. The problems with Greek-Turkish relations and refugee - immigration will be deep, lasting and possibly escalating in the future. It is for this reason that integrated policies are needed, not semi-metres, of course, in any case, communal bubbles, first of all, to change the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration - which Turkey is now directly violating. To allow non-justified asylum to be returned from the mainland, not just from the islands. Apply the returns to practice. Secondly, the proportionate sharing of asylum seekers across Europe. Our country cannot lift all its own weight. Thirdly, the change in the Dublin regulation, so that asylum procedures are not only carried out in the first host countries, such as our country and Italy. These policies must be relied upon, especially now that we are going to the second stage of the pandemic, and we must strongly claim them from the European Union, with determination, but not just public relations, and with the need to provide the relevant resources for the decent living of those who are in the structures of our country. We need actions and not just nice and hollow words. I would like to point out here that it is good that the relocation of a thousand five hundred unaccompanied minors into other countries of the European Union has begun. However, it is only 1.5% of the total number of unaccompanied minors in our country. So you understand the extent of the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that a large part of the funds announced by Mrs Von der Lyen are concerned with the pharanonic-type structures announced by the government. I would like here very soon to open a parable to say that Europe's conservative circles, particularly Berlin, believe that with a few tens of millions of them they can throw the problem away. And they showed us this very clearly and all this time, but also with their visit here. So I close this parenthesis to return to the fact that you are legislating today on closed controlled island structures. You insist, Minister, that everything will be done on the islands in the most sensitive national area. We are not opposed to the principle of closed structures. We've seen it too many times. Closed or open structures, however, do not solve the problem, that is not the solution. Sustainable solution is the radical change in European policy and the government's responsibility is to exhaust all possibilities to achieve it, even veto in critical decisions. I won't get tired of repeating it. This is an extremely crucial issue. Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis, instead of bringing Greece's voice to Europe, has exhausted his courage, even by force and authoritarianism, to the islands. And despite the change of the agenda due to recent developments, the MAT scenes on the islands will throw for years heavy shadows in the works and those days of the government. So change politics before it's too late. Now fight the European Union and do not allow Turkey to make bazaars linked to our national issues. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is conditional on respect for the institutions, transparency and democratic dialogue, without pre-confidential secrecy and by way of derogation, in the name of home and not in the name of party interests and opaque private interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I will now give the floor to Minister Mitarakis for two minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u163	Madam President, Mrs Gennamas has begun her position by leveling up immigration policy, but, following her speech, I saw more conscientiousness. You said that there were no concrete results from the legislation of November, by Law 4636, while of the four thousand decisions per month, the Asylum Service issues seventeen thousand, and we no longer want a hundred and eighty-five days for the first decision, but only twenty-four on the islands. There have been new structures and over 10% of the structures of our islands have been dismantled. We are at the level of October 2019 and we continue the effort to dismantle. In the European Union we are at the forefront of the negotiation and many points from the president's position are in line with our national immigration strategy. You spoke of public health issues in structures. I repeat, the situation in the structures is very difficult, but since the beginning of the crisis, no instance has so far been reported in the five structures managed by the Ministry in the islands. Two points were raised in particular in the KINAL amendment and in the position of the President. The first was the issue of the poster. If 1.5 for unaccompanied is a very small number, as Mrs Gennamas said, then I imagine that 1.3 of the poster we need for this extraordinary period is also a very small number. And the fact that the asylum office, after the appointment of commanders and subordinates in February with a provision that you did not support, was able to quadruple the decisions and the first-host service to take over within May by the NGOs shows that strengthening the administrative capacity of the Ministry plays a role. As far as contracts are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I will only give you three examples. The KINAAL is proposing - and it is right - that there should be no emergency or urgent procedures on the issue of immigration. That would be the goal of everyone. However, no one can deny that it was predictable six months ago what happened in March with migration flows, the situation with Turkey and the coronary. The previous government - to be fair where I have to be fair - has given our Government three outstanding tenders, not by means of the urgent procedure that it could have used, but by the normal procedure. In the spring of 2019, therefore, the Ministry of National Defense - in which Mrs. Gennimata has served, so she knows well - a competition for eight hundred containers. We need this competition for Malakasa, for Serres, for Samos, for burnt-ups. But he's still in court. From the Ministry of National Defence, we will receive them about January 2021 or February 2021. But if there's rain in the Serres in winter, you'll tell me the parties because I still have tents and because I haven't put a container on. I'm waiting for this contest. At the same time, you made a contest for translations, there were translators for asylum claims. I want to tell you he was signed a week ago. The final tender took twelve months, and it is not your responsibility too, because the services continued. Third, in May 2019 the Ministry of Migration Policy opened a competition for 2.1 million for ten thousand movements. They're still in court. The funding ended on 30 April. And if we don't have this contest ready, we can't make decongestion on the islands. Now, then, we will be forced to declare this contest barren, to launch a new competition, having put up a 50% lower budget per move. However, after the last extension given to us by the European Commission until 31 May, there can be no decongestion from the islands from 1 June. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And all the ten thousand moves you made, Mr. Vitsa, in spring, may have been a good number then. However, after the influx of the last 12 months, you realise that the forecast at that time is not enough. So there must be an urgent procedure in the few cases that it needs. But the solution is the framework agreements. And I told you, ladies and gentlemen - and I am ending with this - that on 5 May the first framework competition was published on the European Commission's website for all asylum structures for four years. Madam President, with the closure of the time-consuming economy, I will table some legislative improvements in the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameus, has the floor to place her on the amendment - addendum. Immediately afterwards, ladies and gentlemen, we will take a break for about ten or fifteen minutes in order to get the Chamber fired. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we tabled the amendment under a general number 296 and a special 7. There are two arrangements in this amendment. The first arrangement has to do with distance education. We are currently bringing a wider institutional framework for distance education. Why? Because we're going through a next phase. Remote education has worked extremely well so far, thanks to the enormous effort made by the educational community. We are now moving on to the gradual reopening of structures. However, ladies and gentlemen, in this gradual reopening of structures, not all pupils can yet return. Some students stay behind. They stay behind because they live in their homes with a person belonging to increased - risk groups, stay behind because the student himself may belong to these increased - risk groups or stay with someone who may be ill from the coronary. These children, therefore, are protecting their individual health by staying home and also further shielding public health, contributing to the protection of public health. As a government in charge we must ensure that these students have access to education as well. And that is why we provide for the amendment that in schools in the case of epidemic diseases, at the same time, teaching students who participate in the course in a natural presence can also be taught at the same time as other students who are involved in distance learning. So we give the possibility of linking children who live in the home to their natural order, the possibility for these children not to be cut off from the educational process, because they protect their family members and because they contribute to the protection of public health. In addition, Madam President, we also provide for the possibility if we have an extraordinary or unforeseen event, such as a suspension of a school's function due to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, snow exclusion, to be able to ensure that the duration of this suspension is as long as it takes, for example. I must point out here that the provision you see has been prepared after consultation of the Personal Data Protection Authority in order to safeguard personal data and for the purpose of providing training. The second regulation of the amendment regulates the framework for the special authorisation of teachers and provides for the possibility, by means of a reasoned decision of the Head, that teachers should receive a special leave in the light of the gradual reopening of educational structures. Such arrangements are equivalent to those for workers under the Ministry of Transport, Health, Migration, Civil Protection and so on. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u168	You can do it. I imagine the Minister wants to answer Mr. Vitsa's question. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u169	Because I have read the amendment quickly and I see that it has a permanentity, that is, you do not say 'for the period since then' - do you say in general - means that there will be cameras or other tools in the ranks for the transmission of the course - let me always call it that? So, in September, in October, there will be? This also creates the possibility of attending, not only for those students who are attending, but also for monitoring and what is going on within the classroom. This question I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u170	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. The answer is that there is a specific restriction on the scope of this provision, which says 'only in the event of epidemic diseases'. Therefore, the answer is 'no, there is generally no camera', only in the case of epidemic diseases, and since, for example, as now, there is the possibility of staying at home children in specific cases. In this case where the epidemic disease lasts, we allow these children not to stay behind. So, Mr Colleagues, the provision is not a general provision. It limits the scope, with regard to simultaneous teaching in natural persons and persons from a distance, only in the event of an epidemic disease.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Minister. Because there are also the parliamentary representatives, I think they can ask the Minister at some point. Isn't that right? To keep the guys a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, may I have the floor to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u174	Here, for a minute, you have the floor, Mr. President. Please beg the Minister if he can remain a little longer to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, a question of purely clarification, as a parent, I ask you a second-hand question as a Member. My son is in high school and he's going to Second High School. Do you give parents the assurance - what Mr Vitsas implied - that the material that will be filmed or transmitted will protect the child's safety data in all the activities carried out within the course? Are there going to be a two-tier electronic, information-type security, so it won't be easy to infiltrate anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u176	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would point out that, as the amendment itself says, there is no record and no storage. The recording and storage of material shall be explicitly prohibited. Only live transmission is permitted - live, that is, at the same time - sound and image. The first is that. Secondly, we have incorporated more requirements into this provision than is required by Union law and by Greek law. Thirdly, as I said, this provision has been made after consultation of the Privacy Authority. And, fourthly, it only concerns the case of an epidemic disease. In other words, the simultaneous teaching within the classroom of natural persons and the simultaneous connection of the student from his home - that is to say, no one left behind - is a possibility offered to exclude no one from the education alone - I repeat - in the case of an epidemic disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u178	Madam Minister, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that after the interruption we will start at 15:45. I will announce my first colleague and hope he is in the Chamber because we will go to the next speaker, so he will lose his position as a speaker. That means you must all be on time in the Chamber. The sitting is suspended for ten minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u180	I think it would be better for a number of reasons to speak from the seat, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u181	As you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u182	Madam President, we are debating today a draft law which aims firstly to improve more generally the institutional framework for immigration and asylum policy with a view to better and more effective organisation and management of the immigration problem. The improvement consists in tightening up all reception and asylum procedures, simplifying and shortening procedures with a view to speeding up and decoupling reception centres. The second objective of this bill is to organize now an integrated and well-structured Ministry of Migration Policy without shortcomings and gaps, with specialised staff and services. I believe that following the adoption of this draft law, the country finally has a comprehensive framework and an overall policy on immigration. We are accused, on the left, of restricting the rights of immigrants, of creating new concentration camps, as was said by a Left-wing rapporteur yesterday, or of talking about prisons when we talk about closed-ended centres. That, I repeat, is the argument on the left. On the right hand we criticise that we show excessive sensitivities, that we facilitate asylum seekers, that we are too philanthropists in vulnerable groups. That's all for us, Mr. Ministers. It means we're on the right track. We are on the way, on the way to the measure, rationalisation, respect for human rights and respect for the rules of international law, the sensitivity indeed to the genuinely vulnerable people from those seeking asylum, such as unaccompanied minors. At the same time, however, we are on the road to safeguarding the rights, interests of the Greek society and protecting the security of the Greek state and of the Greek society. It would be nice to remind you of what we received, what the policy on immigration we received - not only in immigration but especially in that. May I remind you of the question of the former Prime Minister in Thessaloniki at the press conference wondering if there are any maritime borders? Can I remind you of the statement about immigrants melted in Omonia to enjoy the sun? May I remind you of the immunity of interests that have developed around this subject and that issue, as happened with the NGOs, which now fall under this law more organised and more systematically under registration and control through the register? Before the elections, the New Democracy had clearly said that it would tighten the procedures. It was something we talked about and we didn't hide it. It really took a time when there was an outbreak of the phenomenon. And to a large extent this flare and intensity of the phenomenon found us unprepared. We've corrected our pace. We even corrected our mistakes. It's an advantage in politics to be able to admit that you have flaws or have made mistakes, to recognize and correct them. The mistake is not to recognize the mistakes and not to correct them. It is not, of course, common for the Greek political reality. So we did. We showed a different political morality. Now, after correcting our mistakes, we have first changed the general framework for immigration with a first very important legislative intervention. Today we are improving it even more at institutional level. We have also changed in terms of a systematic organization of the Ministry of Migration Policy. Meanwhile, we have proved that Greece is not a clear vine, we have proved that there is a state, that the state has borders, that our borders are kept decisively and efficiently. And not just the Greek border, but the European ones. And not only that, but with the successful manipulations of the government and Prime Minister, we have for the first time achieved the entire leadership of the European Union, all the European officials, from the extreme Castanes of Evros, publicly declared that the Greek border is a European border and that we are not only fighting for Greece, but for the whole of Europe and for European values, at the same time demonstrating their practical solidarity. I must congratulate, as a Member of Evros, on this official, official step, that of the Greek Parliament, all those Installes Powers and the people of forces who have attempted at Evros at difficult times, preventing the invasion, the Greek Army, the Greek Police, with particular reference to the forces of MATs and the Border Guard, our Firehouse and the Port Authority, which, of course, did not participate in land operations in Evros, but every day it gives the battle under difficult conditions in the Aegean. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have shown that there is a state, a serious state, a competent and responsible state and that we have the powers, but also the opportunities to reject any attempt organized, if any, provided that there is mood, will from political leadership and determination. So we will continue in all areas, as we did in the battle of the coronary pandemic, and we have achieved that. So we will continue to enjoy the recognition and trust of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me beyond the party condolences, to express my personal grief, a great grief for the death of Dimitris Kremastinos. Minister, your speech is impressive, indeed. In this, however, the difficult ministry you are, you should ask yourself - and you should do it here too - because even a few things are what you say in the Ministry of Migration Policy, why have you broken up the Ministry as a government? Do you forget, as a government, you broke up the ministry? That you got everything back? I mean, typically when you became Minister, you didn't receive anything. You have typically received an asylum service and rebuild it from the beginning. That's a more classic example of the record. There was a register of NGOs, and if I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Spanou was responsible for this particular service. You are right now to say a new NGO register. Since you've dismantled the Ministry, you'll be building new ones now. Secondly, I hear from you about the opposition parties, in particular about asylum, major criticisms and many. Law 4540, meeting May 15, 2018, is the law of asylum. Thirty-nine articles and a hotel room. In behalf of the New Democracy, in thirty of the thirty nine, two "residents", in favour of the DISY, now a Change Movement, twenty-nine articles, four "residents", JRC in favour of thirteen articles, fifteen "residences". In other words, a law, which either way you do, based on these figures, has been the subject of the general agreement of the House. Thirdly, effective policy. I told you, anyway, I'd give you two ESKSMA bulletins. On 8 July 2019, elections have been held and you are a government. Five islands, 13,492. On May 5, 34,128. That was your policy. Now, if you want to get away from the half of July - December, well you do, and I would do the same. But the government is a united thing, and when we called you, you didn't understand. With this bill you are creating the framework not just of an anti-immigration policy, but of even worse xenophobic policy. And you know why you're doing this? You do so in order to justify earlier acts and omissions contrary to international law and human rights. Mr. Psychogios told you. And what does Europe say and what do they say in general? And at the same time petty the ears of a frightened audience, but in the end this effort strengthens extreme right-wing practices. Let it be clean. As long as there are such reasonable and such laws, there will be phenomena like in Lesvos with MATs, phenomena like in Brasna, and recently like Pella. And it will always be invented by the extreme right forces a supposed danger of national security. From communists to immigrants, a cigarette street. Look at it. In Macronissos, the Communists and left-wing democrats, told the President of the Greek solution earlier, immigrants. That is the logic that goes through and without, of course, saying how much it costs. A Memorandum costs what it says, so people can figure it out. All of this from a ministry whose task is to safeguard, serve and secure human rights. All this in logic, as I said, is supposed to be an effective policy, and I have proved it to you. Let's see it now more closely than you said and what you write: Is Greece a destination? Are we going well? Of course, it is not a destination, and Mr Kumoutsakos said so in a way. This is our geographical location. And, Mr Katsafado, in 2015 this was a very large refugee flow from Syria, Merkel goes to a global audience and says "We will get eight hundred thousand refugees and we will give 600 euros a month to every refugee if he arrives," he finally took a million. In 2016 they were reached by those who took for labour and close the border. That's the reality. Now no matter how many times you say "you said they are melted" etc. There's reality, I'll see you soon after. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Then, do you not know that no one can come out of the Schengen Agreement? No one can. A month, Germany checked on those arriving in Germany with planes. From that point on, he said, "There's no need, there's no reason, we're wrong, we're stopping it." While with the agreement I made with Mr Zeehofer, Minister for the Interior, who said various things, 50 from Germany in Greece were returned, five thousand reunifications were made by Greece in Germany. These are the realities. Should the border be guarded? Another great question. Yes, from every foreign enforcement, from any refugee - immigration work by criminal traffickers' organisations. Let us say this clearly, however, as a parliament that refugees and immigrants are not a threat to our sovereignty. They're looking for a better life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Can anyone qualify as a rightful or not to international protection before examining his claim? Now we're splitting into refugees and immigrants. Without an examination of the request? How? Do we break them up with the eye? Oh, no, of course not! Fourthly, you reduce times, like someone, if you succeed in the times of the previous law or even less will tell you "why do you do it less?" I don't understand. We haven't reached them these times. Why are you reducing them? Can you understand that? And then you say, "If we reduce them, we'll create a dam so they don't come." In other words, people will find out in the mountains of Afghanistan and they will say "A, Metarakis has reduced times, we do not go to Greece". Or the traffickers will find out and you think they care. Money's gone. They were brought to Samos when they were taken horrific steps to prevent them from going to Samos. What are you talking about? Fifth, there's a common finding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u185	Will we finish on fifth?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u186	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a common finding of the need for closed centres. You have discussed this at the offices of the New Democracy and it is a joint statement, let's say. For example, all the others who say it is wrong and there will be explosions, are we or are we not in the joint declaration? Listen, you have previously had a dialogue with Mr Kamine on the predictable or unpredictable. It's hard to predict. I tell you this to know: there is the issue of the 20 million that Norway would give us, on the basis of the agreement between Greece and Norway. Do you control this program? Inside was an Observatory that would do studies of migration flows, so you could tell us how many predicted for 2022. If it's right or wrong, it's another matter. In sports, too, we see it. Chichipas once beats Federer, he loses three times. He's gonna beat him sometime. Then there's the coronary. Theory of herd immunity. Clear things. The day before yesterday, May 3, you launched the first tracking station in Moria. When are they going to be inaugurated? And an accusation against immigrants and refugees as a fear. So we can talk about it all by their name. The people in the Galaxy, the Porto Heli, caught up with people who got stuck - the whole Skull knows this thing - from the villas of rich Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Vitsa, you made me a precedent. You're the second congressman. There has been no progress on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u188	I will also say about the confidential funds. You shouldn't have accepted the Ministry of Migration Policy classified funds. But to me, you know what worries me? Not this one. We shall vote for a 'four against', you will vote for a 'in favour', you will bring it to the House and it goes by saying. Confidential funds to the Ministry of Civil Protection, classified funds to the Ministry of Migration Policy. Are we going to have one all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u189	And finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u190	What's going on here? Are we going to be a society of secret business and actions informant through bribery? The question is not addressed to you. It is addressed to the Prime Minister of the country. And whenever you turn around like a government, you start lying and inaccurate. Remember, in the end, if this argument goes on, we'll ask you what time it is and you'll lie to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u192	Just a moment, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u193	I shall simply refer to points of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u194	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u195	Let me tell you that the Government accepts the two ministerial amendments tabled, the general number 294 and the special number 5 and the number 296 and the special number 7. Parliamentary amendment is not accepted under a general number 295 and a special item 6 for reasons I have already explained. Also, legally, its second article under number 294/5 of 7 May 2020, our Ministry's amendment to join Part III of the bill, numbered as Article 33 and number the other articles of the bill respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Good evening to have a good evening, to keep up with the times above, because Mr Pappas from New Democracy and the beautiful Dodecanese, who will come to Stepma, is the third speaker and is missing from what I see many speakers, forty-one. To express my condolences to the family of Dimitris Kremastinos, who faithfully served science and parliament and as its Vice President. After Mr Papapas, I will give Mr Gregoriadis the floor to the Parliamentary Representative from Mera25. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I will ask for a minute further before I begin, because as a Dodecanese I would like to express my grief for Dimitris Cremastino. Today's dawn kept a sad news for all the Dodecanese. The ravages lost the battle, which has been very brave to give over the last forty days Dimitris Kremastinos. Dimitris Kremastinos honoured with his presence in our Parliament. He was Vice President of the Greek Parliament and was successful and dynamic Minister of Health. The dodecanese people have honoured him and as a MP over six times. He honored me with his friendship and my family. He stood out for his morality, dignity and integrity. There was an internationally recognized scientist, Professor of Cardiology at Greek and foreign universities. He offered a lot to the Aristotle Dodecanese and I want from the Step of the Greek Parliament, which with such seriousness, responsibility and consistency served, to express my warmest condolences to his family, his wife Jenny Cremastinos, Stefania Roditis, Litsa Roditis, Dimitris Cremastinos and his relatives. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u198	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I could never imagine or predict - and I believe none of us here today - that we would be addressing the National Delegation behind a plastic window, that our habits and everyday life would change so radically. Our country is in the middle of a major crisis, which is literally global, a crisis that started as a health crisis, continues as an economic crisis, and we must do everything we can to avoid becoming social. This crisis has taught us and continues to teach us and remind us a great deal. I would like to thank the depths of my heart to the doctors and nurses throughout Greece who have the full oath of Hippocrates and do what they should, save lives. I would also like to thank all those anonymous people who are fighting daily in a life that is changing rapidly and unpredictablely. Every day's life and everything we've known so far is changing as well. One thing unfortunately does not change, ladies and gentlemen, the ideological obsessions, the populism and the stereotypical perceptions of the SYRIZA. We saw it the other day in the environmental bill. You have tabled a request for a roll-call vote and left. We see it today in the bill of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and reminded us once again of your attitude. I'll explain why. There are some words and concepts that cause you to be anaphylaxis, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: Close structures, re-propulsions, deportations, control, national security, deterrence. We understand it because it is your political and ideological choice. It does not mean that because we understand it, we accept it. We do not accept it because we disagree ideologically and because here we are in order to defend the law and the interests of the Greek citizens, nor to serve our ideals or all kinds of non-governmental organisations, as you have done up to now. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill that we are now called upon to vote on, there is another step in the right direction, the reduction of migration flows and the substantial support for local societies. The flows have already been limited thanks to the effective guarding of our borders from our Navy, from our porters who day to night send a message that Greece, Europe, the old continent has sea borders and they are guarded. In April, from the information we all know, we had only thirty-nine arrivals, that is, a 98% reduction in flows, while in the first four months of the year the arrivals fell by 20% compared to 2019. They started making refunds, they like - they don't like some. We have been reducing those who live on the islands by 10% since the beginning of the year. Procedures for a decision on arrivals and asylum have been speeded up. Increase of 130% in decision-making and reduction of outstandings in the Appeals Authority by 28%. The state shows that it is present and is working, shows that our country is not a'speaking vineyard', nor is it a 'promise'. The long - term procedures of the past cost allowances and accommodation for applications that were eventually rejected. The logic of granting allowances, the paid stay in hotels, finally stops. At the same time, a class enters into the sinful chaos of non-governmental organizations. It is the NGOs who have been involved for so many years in the prevalence and management of millions. People were rich at the expense of local societies and property was created in the backs of suffering people, which were clearly exploited. Humanitarianism was stopping where the immunity of NGOs began. The electronic record will finally enter a class, and immunity will stop. The generalisation of NGOs will cease and those who really do the work they need to do and practice will remain. The major change takes place with closed controlled structures in the five islands. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as you have heard: Clearly controlled structures. The anarchy of open structures and transit centres is finally ending. With a special system for checking entry and exit and identifying whoever seeks asylum. With special hosting spaces for vulnerable groups. With inland structures, which will not be the prerogative of NGOs, but the governors. I listened carefully to many colleagues in the committees, but also today in plenary, wondering what is suddenly happening and the mayors of the islands do not react and leave, in fact, implying that something wicked is going on. Do you not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that they realised that the government, the political leadership of our Ministry and the Minister, Mr Metarakis, have a plan, have a vision and is this a concrete and practical plan? Our Minister and the administration of the Ministry discuss and listen to local communities. In these local communities, have you bothered to develop your views on open centres, on open borders, on the logic that anyone who wants to come? It would be very interesting if you did this and not just zebecks at party events on the islands, which we saw before the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, many people here like to talk about the rights of those who come to our country, but we have never heard of them being placed for the rights of those who live, work, feed and produce in this country. Local communities on the islands raised a disproportionate burden in this migratory crisis. Unfortunately, they will rise even higher because of the effects of the pandemic on tourism and local economies. As a minimum return, therefore, the Ministry's bill provides 50 million to the municipalities involved. It started running a Solidarity Fund, which has been funded with 25 million euros to support projects in the municipalities affected by the immigration crisis. The issue of the migratory crisis is above all national. We all know who our neighbor is and what he's trying to do with the flow. We know, even if some people do what they don't hear and see. Unfortunately, I heard colleagues criticised why we were transporting catamaran immigrants from our islands. I would like them to say clearly: Would these immigrants want to move freely to Kastelorizo, Pharmaconesi, to Symi? Tell the residents, though. And that is why I would say that before you speak, it would be good to think about national issues, even if that phrase, as I said before, gives rise to anaphylaxis. Consider both public health issues and do not take the lead in statements and in channels. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called 'confidential expenditure' has been discussed. The Minister responsible, Mr Metarakis, explained that they will not be classified, since they will be known to all of us MPs and will be in our knowledge. But let's get to the bottom of it. Is there anyone who thinks there's no question of national security with migration flows? Is there anyone questioning the fact that poaching circuits should be dealt with? That circuits create and cause stunned episodes and tensions in the structures? Such issues, ladies and gentlemen, no serious, responsible and organised state manages them in common. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another step towards restoring order to one of the most serious problems managed by Greece and in which the irresponsibility of previous years has cost us too much. It is also a way to show our islanders that they are not alone, that here some people work and put the living conditions and the safety of our islands above any idealism, above all in the interests of Greece, because the interest of Greece is solely the interest of Greek citizens. Nothing less, nothing more. For all these reasons, I do not ask the opposition to support a proper bill. It's useless. Besides, you've always put your ideas and obsessions on top of everything. I wouldn't expect anything opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too. Let me remind you that any fellow Member who wants to speak from where he is can speak to save time. Time is valuable. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor since Mera25. Of course, Mr Gregoriadis will keep them for twelve minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that most of you will notice a few thousand people yesterday, my colleagues from all my arts and colleagues who serve all the arts out here from our Parliament. I imagine you'd notice them, because even if you didn't come out, they were quite screaming and so they would have managed to draw your attention somehow. I shall, of course, refer to the draft law on which we are talking today, the draft law you are bringing, Mr Kumoutsako, to the vote in the House today, and Mr Metarakis, to this anti-human draft law, in our opinion, immediately afterwards. However, let me begin by referring to something that I really think is an impression on anyone who is a good observer. It was indeed a question of the greatest concentration that has taken place since this evil of COVID -19 invented, and it was indeed a concentration with a pulse, a concentration of super-party. There were people, many of my acquaintances, right-wing, right-wing, left-wing and so on. All Greece, at least all Athens, observed this and a large part of Athens, the citizens who are active, came here to stand by the workers in the arts. It is worth wondering how none of our six large systemic private channels noticed it. I am referring to the well-known channels of the well-known parasitic oligarchs and your associates and friends to a certain extent to you in the New Democracy, Mr Marinakis, Mr Alfouzos, Mr Kyriikos - you know the names, I do not say them - to these 'national benefactors', which so much has been offered to the common good of our country and, above all, democracy and pluralism in the country. It is, therefore, important to say, first of all, how they did not find a five-second view, how it was not possible to show a single shot of these thousands, perhaps the five thousand people who were out of here demanding support to the people who serve the arts, but who have found themselves at the same time, including - and I am sorry to say it - and our state channel, public television, 15 or 15 minutes in order to see the hundred young people who, now released from the closed door, went out to share their drink with friends in the well-known square of Agia Paraskevi, which the right-wing, mayor of Agia Paraskevi has been closed until later this afternoon until dawn. We are in favour of legitimacy. We're clear. We're in favor of not getting more coronary people stuck. And we're clear about that. However, it is clear that for any person that has common sense, the two facts are unequal and unequal. There can't be five thousand people out here protesting and not learning it from six systemic channels and state television and there's fifteen-minutes all to learn in detail how bad the municipal councillor that's going to SYRIZA or us or I don't know where else or how defenseless these young people, who came out and did the terrible thing to drink a hundred people. In any case, the concentration of a hundred people is, by definition, less important for it to be made public by a concentration of thousands or five thousand people. Now, since no one has learned the demands of the gathering of all these people, I have them in a hurry: they are an aid allowance of EUR 535 monthly for all - but all - the wage earners, self-employed and small professionals, artists and workers in the sight, hearing and art in general, we mean visualists, dancers, musicians, actors, directors, designers, clothingists, etc., with an additional sum of EUR 535 for each child and for as long as they cannot work because of measures to deal with this epidemic. And believe me, this time will be by this time of year, at least. Also, direct and universal aid, without terms and conditions, of those artists and workers who have so far not received the EUR 800 of the first phase of support, retroactively. We told you how to find them. I told you too, people who support the art workers are also telling you. Removal immediately of trade tax and tax advances for self-employed and small professionals in the field of art. Support measures for all, such as rent subsidy, tax relief, suspension of payment of taxes and loans for all workers in the cultural sector, employees with a block, a bucket or those who receive a proof of expenditure, i.e. a title of acquisition. Also, guaranteeing copyright and related rights as long as online productions are used earlier. You know, of what TV uses free of charge to us to keep the world at "We live Home", the thousands of serials that are played and re-played. They've taken roots now. Ensure other copyrights, etc., for as long as these online productions are exploited, older or new, and in the midst of quarantine, but afterward. Purchases and awards of artistic works of all kinds, as well as of artistic services by the State and its institutions, with an open call for interest or with pan-Hellenic, clean, artistic competitions, which will not exclude the creators of natural persons. Look. All of this was answered by the government, through the Minister of State, Ms Mendoni, with a comeco-trag, and let me say, in a way, about nothing. I mean, answer with a wish. And what do I mean, a wish? To say that one part, at last to find out how many these people are, is 100 thousand, is a hundred thirty thousand, that makes sense and really needs to be done. But the second thing is that in due course, in due course, cowards will be opened up - cowardly, there will be artistic events is a wish. Anyone who has common sense understands it, because very simply in twelve days from today we will know whether the cases of the coronary are increasing again after the measures have been relaxed. One Minister, in my opinion - and I say this kindly as I can - is not serious when he announces things that will depend on how the coronary cases go. You can't announce it. It also seems that our Minister has nothing to do with art, at least the one I serve thirty - six years. Because it is quite funny to claim that any theatrical performance and its functions, the actors involved in it, may raise any theatrical performances to keep throughout the life of a mile and a half of the security distance. Can you imagine, for example, the Romeo not approaching Juliet at all for any reason, in order not to stick a coronary? I imagine everyone's having a hard time imagining it. So what was announced yesterday is a slap, a slap - apologies for the expression - and they are lacking in complete seriousness. However, our struggle has just begun. You'll find us in front of you all the time. Do you know why? We're few - we know - and we're not concerned with you. And a hundred thousand to be, it's okay, and we're dead. However, you have a terrible inherent misfortune, I would say. They happen to feel sympathy for us, the poor artists, a huge part of the Greek people and that doesn't change. Whether you govern, or SYRIZA governs, either turns back and rules again, and then, from the very beginning, a huge part of our compatriots will understand that we are people who have not gone to this art nor to get rich or to gain power but only few exceptions from us. We went because we can't live any other way. Because if we don't express ourselves, we're going to die. And the souls of our fellow humans feel that. They contribute and support us. Now, I'm going to go through the acquaintances so we don't forget. You know, ladies and gentlemen, from now on we will become the voice of your conscience. We'll put you back in the known, well-known questionnaire. First of all, what are you guys doing with ERAKLE? What's "HERAKLIS"? It's this wonderful plan that you unrooted from the Italians. He's been bankrupt to the Italians for a year already. He didn't manage to redeem the banks, he couldn't save the first homes, he didn't get anything. But it has Greece. No serious predatory fund - if it is not a terrible acid to talk about a serious predator fund, let me be funny - would never take any such product from a four-fold bankrupt country, such as Greece. You know exactly what I mean. And the private sector and the public and households and our banks have been completely bankrupt for ten years. So, to get them to take this business capitalist wild-liberal risk, you've guaranteed them with 12 billion euros that if they don't make their money, you'll give them it to them. Now with the coroner, the stones know they won't make one centimeters of their money. Therefore, in a few weeks' time you will be giving them more than one billion dollars to raise the Greek economy, which will never come up and lead us with mathematical accuracy in a fifth memorandum, which, because it will be added to the previous four, will be worse than what we have known so far. You will give the next few weeks, lightly heart, 12 billion to the predators of the "HRAKLE". Answer us if you will. We remind you that you can do so by means of a 'free' act of legislation to avoid it. And if you really intend to do it, tell us why you're doing it. Are you their relatives? Are you friends with them? Some people who are their friends and relatives, have you bound by the neck? What's going on? But you will. Now. What amount of loans will you get and at what exact interest rate to raise the economy? Will you get them from the ESS? Will you take them from the new ESS, the old, the post-modern, an ESS, that'll be called a little different? Anyway, tell us what kind of loans you'll get and at what interest rate. Are you going to reduce wages and pensions within the next year or not more than a year and a half? Will you increase all taxes? Tell us why we'll be here to control you. Also, we have been telling you for a month that the recession that this situation will cause in the Greek economy will be at least 14% to 15%. We will have 162 billion GDP this year, to understand what we mean. You said so long that the recession would be 4.7%. Suddenly, the Commission, which has become abundant, completely unexpected, fanatical varufactic, came out the day before yesterday and authorized you. He said we'd have a 10% recession. The attendants of Jerusalem, our poor compatriots Greeks, who have left their soul, are well aware that when the Community declares a 10% recession, they are brutally awaited from 15% to 18%. Our right to all the numbers we have given will be absolute and your report will also be absolute. Also, we have made many other predictions. What will be the growth for GDP of 2021? You say 5.1%. We say with your austerity it will be 1.8% to 2% at most. And without the austerity - which we urge you - it can indeed touch 5%. Also, the primary balance, significantly below the target, you say it will be at 3.5. We're saying it's going to be 16 billion. Also, the 2021 surplus tells you it will, with austerity, be at 7%. Without austerity, it'll be at 5.9%. So decide, and accept that you continue to be guilty while you continue not to put money on the market, with the comic, let me say, although an actress, that we are 'we are saving our clothes for later'. But how much later? All the capitalists of this world know that an economy that is being evaporated, that is to say, cutting its pulse, every day it passes to recover, needs a geometric increase in the sums you have to put it down. It is by chance that all capitalists in the West, Mr Trump, all the governors, do not govern communists for the rest of the European Union - have taken measures that go through 7% of their GDP. They've thrown, I mean, hot money in the market. In some cases 12% passes. And you've taken steps that are 1.5% - 1.7%. They'll always come, they'll come, and they'll never come. So I'll tell you, by closing two or three things for today's bill. First of all, for us in Mera25 it is clear that there are no refugees and immigrants. This is a separation patch. One understands that it is common sense. Tell me honestly. I'm looking into your eyes. A man who's leaving Syria because he's being shot and a man who's leaving Afghanistan because it's the third week his minor child hasn't eaten any bread, have they a lot of difference? One is a refugee and the other is a luxurious immigrant? We have reason to know that this is how people leave. Because, you know, people aren't stupid. They know that there has been a crisis for ten years on this continent. They come to Greece just to go to European countries. They know after the coroner that they won't find a job there, and they won't find a piece of money there. Why are they coming? Because it's better to try to die on the street than to die of hunger in your place. We also tell you that closed centers, as one says, will remain concentration camps and it is anti-human to create concentration camps anywhere on the ground. We are telling you - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that with your new draft law, you have been arrested in these camps - detention centres will be dropped by the new entrants, the disabled, the minors, the pregnant, their babies and those who have rejected their applications and are in the process of expulsion. I'm sorry, I ate the time, and I didn't have time to say much about your bill. Do you find all this related to humanism, to Western civilization, to the conquests of centuries in our conscience, mind and philosophy? Thank you very much for having tolerated me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Until the Step is ready and we give Mrs Giannakopoulou the floor from the Change Movement, I would like to tell you, Mr Gregoryadis, that a good protest by artists is not to go to the early school. I would also like to inform you that after Mrs Giannakoulou, the Deputy Minister will be given the floor. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot start today's sitting in the House speaking and mentioning myself in my turn the tragic loss of Dimitris Kremastinos today. We lost a special man, we lost a special doctor, a sincere, honest, creative policy, a friend for me and a companion, a man of a very mild mood - and he actually made a contribution to his fellow people, a real gentleman. I'd like to take the condolences to his family, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing again today in the plenary of this House an issue that needs a comprehensive strategy. Immigration - refugee is a national challenge that needs everyone's strengths to be met. Unfortunately, the bill submitted to the House by Mr. Mitarakis is in many places. It uses controversial practices, consolidates a regime of opacity and anxiety. I'll come back to the bill. However, I cannot focus on major issues that are currently very much concerned with Greek society. The first is the ongoing effort to deal with the pandemic. No doubt in the first phase we did very well. Congratulations to scientists, congratulations on the fact that timely decisions were made by the government, that there was real political and social confrontation by all, apart from some resounding misconduct. Most of all, however, we must say a very great 'bravo' to the Greek society for the admirable discipline and consistency it has shown. But the big deal is now what we are doing. The coronary is here - this is a basic truth - and the economy will not be able to withstand a second lockdown. That means quite simply that the situation must not be escaped. Any decision of the Government shall take a separate critical effect. I personally believe, for example, that apart from the third grade should not open any other class. I do not agree with the dramatic proportions of some colleagues here, of course. However, I think it is a very great risk, which, if anything, has no educational value especially at the end of the school year. I hope, at least, that they do not open the city hall, because small children cannot be protected under any circumstances. At the same time, I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that I cannot understand the diversity of dealing with those who violate the rules. I would like to explain that a citizen who does not wear a mask pays 150 euros a fine, when we see - especially in the last few days - a number of large groups of citizens assembled in the squares and elsewhere. We have reached very good results because we have all gone together. So that we don't get too far, let's respect all the rules. We all want to take our lives back. But it won't bring them back an early outdoor meeting. It can even remove it even further. And that's something we all have to understand. The second is the obvious concern that starts from the tsunami of the economic recession. I do not want to dwell on individual remarks. However, because I believe that the international and domestic recession due to the pandemic requires - they are necessary - and these, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy, they cannot exist unless we talk about real data. What is it, then, that the Finance Minister's insistence on a 4% recession, when the mediocre calculations say that this will, if necessary, be twice as high as that? What helps this insistence when, according to the Commission's forecasts, our economy will shrink by 9.75% and unemployment will climb to 20%? This number game reminds me of others. It reminds me of old times. This number game, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, reminds us in 2009, when the deficit was "run" with 15% and the New Democracy Government then estimated it at 4%, 6%. And then the bankruptcy came! No plan can be drawn up, if we do not speak clearly, unless a framework for direct tourism support, agricultural production, critical sectors, if we do not proceed to innovation support policies, if they do not go forward - and this is one of the most fundamental - banks, which continue to be financed, because all of us, the Greek people, have suffered enormous sacrifices. It must therefore be understood by the relevant ministers and the government that they must at last assume their responsibilities, in the support of the Greek economy. I'm coming back to today's bill. Some sharp remarks. This bill invests in ambiguity and in the war of days. It is overlooked that even within the pandemic police stations are filled with asylum seekers, even unaccompanied minors, with no respect for the health check. Their rights are limited by European and international law to be challenged and withdrawn in some cases, despite the interventions of the competent Commissioner, Mrs Johanson, or of the relevant parliamentary groups in this Parliament. The pending asylum applications have reached five thousand. In October there were seventy thousand. Within six months the number of pending asylum applications has increased considerably and the fact that there have been forty re-progressions throughout this period appears to be a fait accompli. Congratulations! We have seen a government that has literally dizzied us from changes in the response mechanism. Initially, the Ministry of Migration Policy abolished. They changed every two weeks, three weeks of tutors. It was re-established in January 2020 and has still not been able to work effectively. A de facto Ministry of Retired Staff shall be established. The bill provides that tens of new posters will be created in both the Ministry and the structures. Immigrants' kite doesn't stop at the Ministry of Migration Policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. It perpetuates opacity. It is continuing and expanding its practice with opaque procedures in a number of contracts by way of derogation, without tender, of practices already under way by OLAF and which the New Democracy itself itself - if I am not mistaken - had condemned in the past. That is why we have tabled a request for a roll-call vote through our rapporteur, Mr Kamine. A framework is being established that encourages corruption. A special secret fund account is being set up for the needs of the Ministry, without any adequate evaluation, without knowing what the amount of these funds or the uses are. You'll have to answer what the ministry needs. Is this about intruders? Is this about a matter of national security? What do you mean when you say they will be delivered transparently? What does it really mean to you administrative detention? It does not succeed in decongesting the islands, perpetuating the drama of both residents and refugees living in hospitality structures. It was set that the reservation ceiling would be six months and actually goes to thirty-six. It will lead our country to convictions and explosive situations with full of detention centres for local communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u204	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have shown that we are fully ready to assist in every national effort, with principles and values with patriotic and European principles, with respect to the institutions, with respect to the Constitution and the citizens, with transparency and merit, which for us in PASOK and the Change Movement is a special and worthwhile theme, having spoken with our history and made the biggest reforms from the ASEAN to "DIAFANIA", "DENGO" and "OpenGov". It is the duty of all of us, therefore, to help, because this is a national issue. But we must move in this way, claiming our role within the European model and acquis as a host country, which is not just a European airbag that does not respect basic principles and values, but instead, that we are a model that can support all these human souls, based on the international and European acquis. For all these reasons the Change Movement will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister, George Koumoutsaskos, has the floor. It does not bother me, nor is it tiredness to talk about times all the time, but we must, ladies and gentlemen, observe it. They have only spoken four MPs and they are forty-one. Here, Minister, you have the floor for nine whole minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u207	Two words of heart for our late colleague. Deep condolences for a modest and serious man who honored science, politics and society. And who finally honoured all of us with his presence here, but also his friendship and his good word and honesty - when he needed criticism. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking for the first time behind this clear restriction and I do not hide from you that I feel a little uncomfortable. I sincerely hope that carefully and responsibly we will quickly leave behind this particular parliamentary dialogue of the plaque, which has been imposed on us by pandemic, and quickly we will have a direct and direct communication. After all, this will also have a strong semanticity, especially in this Chamber, which, as the Prime Minister has said, is the hard core of democratic functioning. Let us hope, therefore, that we wait for the days of the parliamentary dialogue, without knitting. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the committee debate and in today's debate, issues have been raised by colleagues and rightly related to the international aspect of immigration. Because dialogue, as always in migration - this has shown last-time experience - is spreading, widening and covering all issues. After all, there has been a catalytic, convincing and disastrous response from the Minister, Mr. Mitarakis. However, a number of criticisms were put forward and they should not have been made. What happens with Turkey - you have put it, Mr Kamine - what happens with the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, if we have international action, what we will do with Europe - you have urged us to do something, because we are doing nothing - and other such issues that have arisen with regard to the international aspect of immigration. One aspect that is certainly very strong in this matter. Migration is by nature an international issue. I'll start with something I pointed out yesterday. And I will stress it again today to become an estate in the public debate on immigration from now on. Nothing is the same in immigration policy, not only in Greece, but also in Europe, after the events of Evros. In the events caused by Turkey's orchestrated exploitation of immigrants and refugees, in order to use them as a human siege ram in order to achieve the geopolitical goals of Europe, whether directly here or through this blackmailing policy. Turkey has failed, Greece has succeeded. Today we are in another state of recession, calm. But does that allow reassurance? Not at all. Because both the Turkish officials' statements and the information on open sources available for migrant movements from deeper areas in Turkey to its western borders are available. There is now a reference to a report by FRONTEX which says or at any rate estimates that, after the alarm of the pandemic, there will be a new effort from the Turkish side to have new migratory flows. And the weather of the next few months is an additional factor that can help. There is therefore no justification for any kind of reassurance. We have done what we have done effectively and clearly, we will do so whenever necessary. We will protect the country's borders against an asymmetrical form of challenge that ultimately concerns national security. And I'm gonna do a little parentheses here. Is there, frankly, - and if so, to say - one that after Evros and the Russians, but also the extensions that this neighbour's policy has, does it believe that immigration policy is cut laboratory into a gap from national security issues? Say it, whoever believes it, say it. And does it justify or not a transparent management of existing special funds at the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum? I'm going over to the next, though. So we have an excellent situation and an extreme situation, and we need to be ready for that. And the need to adapt the legislative framework to emergencies, especially in migration, is the task of each government. There are no more possibilities for planning immigration policy for decades to come. Because the environment is changing too fast, especially in this part of the world. And here I want to put one more thing, because they have to send out messages. It was therefore necessary to tighten up in the context of respect for international law and treaties. Because this is the great challenge, to protect your national interests with a sufficient degree, your borders, your security, and at the same time, not to evade international law, which is in our country's best interests to support it. This thin line will be kept. And the borders will be protected and our democratic soul will not be lost. But along with the extraordinary events that Greece lived not only in Greece, but also in Europe, we had the pandemic together. The combination of the two required new manipulations in the management of immigration - not only in Greece, but everywhere - either in the reception process or in the asylum procedure. So there is a moment when the exceptional conditions which will become a reality - I mean it is a reality that we have to claim and think about it - together with exceptional circumstances of force majeure now create an obligation of the legal framework to take these into account and introduce the principle of flexibility together. This is mainly about what we will claim at European Union level too. The countries that we can suffer, because of our geopolitical position, exceptional and exceptional conditions, must be able to deal with asylum and immigration issues with the due due and acceptable flexibility of our partners. The intensity created by Turkey has dehydrated the field of dialogue. We live in a dried landscape. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will be using all the time. In such a landscape, dialogue does not blossom. And if Turkey now knows and should know that it has a neighbour who respects his dignity and security, it should, if she is interested in dialogue, take an initiative and discuss why the challenges are common. And here comes the subject of the joint statement. Do we need her? There's no other tool that works. We need her. As it is? Oh, no. What does Greece want? What do we think should have a new statement? It must first of all have the removal of the geographical restriction agreed by the SYRIZA Government and the caging of all in the islands and cannot move in the hinterland or if they cannot go to Turkey. This has to end. We need a new reading. It is also a matter of great importance to Turkey in terms of funding from Europe. But can it be financed without conditions? No, it has to be done in terms. With what logic? More for fewer flows. Less or no if there are streams. In other words, a safety net in the funding that Turkey demands. But one more thing, mixed operations FRONTEX and Turkey both on land and on the sea along the Turkish coast. This would be a move that would indicate that Turkey can cooperate in terms of confidence with Europe in order to address the big issue of the flows. And now I'm going to international cooperation. But the extroversion that was not there became a feature of our policy. We signed a seat agreement which has been pending for years with the European Asylum Agency. And immediately after their business here, their presence of five hundred asylum-help people became a thousand, because this signature had to be entered. In a few days' time, he'll come to the House to ratify it. We finalise the Headquarters Agreement with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, which has been here since 1952, and has no headquarters agreement. It's incomprehensible. So we close and proceed to a seat agreement with the International Organisation for Migration. We applied for membership of Austria's International Centre for Migration Studies, which has seventeen countries, has a great influence, it is Turkey in and is not Greece. They are loose ends incomprehensible and dangerous since the previous period. So, here's the signals, you're out of the way. But also bilaterally, bilateral cooperation and communication with Iraq and Afghanistan, in order to help returns, on the basis of a voluntary return programme that we have tabled, with strong economic stimulus that will act only once, but we believe it will produce results. Cooperation with the United States. Cooperation with Serbia that has agreed to take 50 to 100 children and remains to be implemented. At the level of the President of the Republic, this commitment was made by Serbia. Cooperation with Great Britain after Brexit. We signed with the Secretary of State for the Interior of England a few days ago a joint strategic action plan on immigration issues, and immediately afterward the first Dublin flight with almost fifty people, children and adults, which will take place next Monday on 11th of the month. And it could also be a Greek return flight to return the same flight. Individual cooperation with Germany, France, the relocation of unaccompanied children with Luxembourg, Switzerland as a Schengen country, Finland, the Netherlands, programmes studied, signed and all this requires work. They want work that doesn't seem when it's in its evolution, but that brings results. And having finished these reports, I want to go to Europe's. You blamed us. Someone told us that we don't have alliances or that we're absent. I don't know who said that, he hurt himself and his party, because it's time to talk. Joint initiative of the Eastern Mediterranean countries Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus in September 2019 on immigration in the Eastern Mediterranean, specific policy proposals towards Europe that tended to focus only on the Central Mediterranean at that time, and we are making a tripartite agreement and initiative to focus attention on the main and most critical front of immigration in Europe, which is the Eastern Mediterranean. I will submit them to the Minutes later, because we said we were living in the era of the platiglas dialogue. Contributions ahead of the negotiation, extensive, detailed and concrete proposal of Greece for a European return mechanism strong, collaborative and effective. I think he got down in October 2019. Greece's proposal on initiative, proposals, guidelines on how at European level and with a European mechanism will be phased out or the networks of the poachers will be handled. And you will read this in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u208	Result...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u209	Please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u210	We're in the process of negotiating, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u211	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u212	On 24 January 2020, a full proposal by letter to Mrs Johanson on how Greece is hierarchy and exactly where she aims at the new Immigration and Asylum Pact. A month ago, an alliance and initiative with all the first-line countries, namely Spain, Italy, Malta, Cyprus and Greece, on what we believe, we accept the arctic wave of immigration on how it should be the new immigration and asylum pact, a full five-page proposal, which takes all parts of a future immigration pact. So we have a cooperation between those who, like us, support Europe's external borders. And finally, 29 April, days ago, Greek positions of response to the letter and to the positions of Germany, France, Spain and Spain on the policy of research and rescue at sea that concerns us very much. That is the absence from Europe. And alliances we have and interventions we have and initiatives we have. And finally what we expect and what we want. We want from Europe two basic and fundamental principles to be interdependent with fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity. That is what you will tell me in general, that we have specified our proposals and we are asking for the following. Solidarity must be stable, substantial and effective as a normal situation in the management of migratory flows, but that is not enough, because we are in an area that produces crises and exceptional conditions, so we are also proposing an exceptional mechanism of compulsory solidarity in times of crisis, because we need this as our region is having crises, compulsory solidarity. This mechanism is therefore directly into operation, binding only one Member State - it faces such conditions. And we are struggling to get through these other positions in the new pact, and it will be a negotiation - and I will close with it - because there are three groups of countries in this European negotiation, the first-line countries that have their flags and their first priority in their genuine and effective solidarity, the countries of destination, the old European countries of France, Germany, the Netherlands which are more sceptical about solidarity, but because they are stable pro-European cannot ignore it and support it, but not to the extent that we and the Visegrad countries want, no solidarity. These three groups of countries will negotiate difficult, persistent and hard in the next few years. We believe that we have done the necessary work, with nothing being easy, which will enable us to support our positions effectively and in any case with influence. And I owe an answer to SYRIZA and I'll close with it. When did they close the border of the Balkan road? On 25-10-2015, not as a reaction to what you did, but with your consent. You participated in the October 2015 decision on the closure of the Balkan dialogue. The meeting was held in Brussels, it was convened by the then chairman of the committee, Mr Juncker, and the Prime Ministers of Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Romania, Serbia and Slovenia participated, and then two things were agreed and this will be tabled in the Minutes. Paragraph 3 - in order not to think that we have short memory - under the present circumstances we will prevent refugees or immigrants from moving towards the border of another state in the region, signature Tsipras. Paragraph 5: We welcome Greece's intention to increase its reception capacity by thirty thousand posts by the end of the year and the commitment along with the High Commissioner to welcome it on the basis of family programmes at least twenty thousand more than thirty thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u213	The first sixty...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u214	Don't interrupt him, Miss Fotio. Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u215	These are signed by then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. If you don't remember them, we remind you. Just take special care of the international dimension of immigration, because you have made great mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u216	That's not saying anything. Are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u217	So let us go from now on to the difficult negotiation that comes with another spirit, because what you say will be answered. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u218	Tsipras said it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the migration issue is a major issue for our country, but also for Europe. Migration flows are growing rapidly as a result of warfare, persecution, lack of rights, lack of food and also of better living conditions in both the labour sector and human relations. For all these reasons, which unfortunately will continue to exist for a long time, immigration will not be cut short, and most of all that the countries of origin of immigrants have a huge demographic increase. This reality is, perhaps, the biggest challenge the country has to face. This is because it is geographically at the crossroads of Europe with Asia and Africa. The routes of immigration to the Promised Land, the European Union, pass through the Greek territory and the Greek seas, and unfortunately we have a neighbour who, with his review and expansion policy, ignores International Law and International Regularity, uses immigrants unregulatedly for his own purposes. We have known this tooling for years, but it has manifested itself completely unequivocally in the recent events of Evros. The attempt to invade the Greek border by immigrants, with the help of the Turkish militia and para-state elements, marks a new level of threat to Greece. The decisive response of the government has given us the best answer and, furthermore, our country has won with its sword acknowledging that our borders are also a European border, which has in practice been confirmed by the involvement of European forces in the guarding of Evros. Forces who first-hand find Turkish aggression, since a few days ago as “SPIEGEL” wrote: “German border guards of FRONTEX were fired by Turkish soldiers.” Ladies and gentlemen, there must no longer be any doubt that the Turkish President will continue to work on immigration. And if it weren't for the pandemic, maybe we were faced with the second round of this Turkish design. Already, recently a rotiacav full of immigrants arrived to the Cyclades. Information has been given on many such ships that are destined for this purpose. Of course, Greece throughout this period has shown that both the sea has borders and that if a state wants a state, it can keep them alas, if they were different! I am therefore optimistic that what happened to Evros will also happen in the Aegean Sea, when Ankara wants to play the extortion paper of immigration, whether to achieve its pursuits in Syria and in its relations with the European Union or to create instability in our country. However, border guarding is one side of an effective immigration policy. The other is management within the country. In fact, this issue is so thorny, that it is a time bomb. With closed internal European borders - the Deputy Minister mentioned earlier - with the consent of SYRIZA and the reluctance of the Member States to take the burden of immigration and refugee flows on an equal footing, Greece has to find appropriate solutions as a matter of urgency. It is, of course, encouraging that there has already been a relative response to the issue of unaccompanied minors and some of them, even a little, have been accepted by Member States, which is welcomed, but which must be followed up. But until Europe shows its solidarity in practice, we must act more quickly. The procedure for examining asylum applications may not be drawn up. This is a flagrant injustice for those who really deserve the status of asylum, such as Syrian refugees. On the contrary, it is exploited by other categories of economic migrants and, moreover, it ends up being a leader for all those who wish to cross the borders to claim their European dreams. This cannot go on. Rapidity is required in the adoption of decisions. Those who are refugees to receive all the privileges provided for by the international treaties, but those who are refused a single path, that of returning to their homeland. Only then will the right message be given. This comes to do the bill we are discussing today, to speed up procedures by shortening deadlines and to tighten up the framework. The message is clear. Anyone who does not come from a war zone and does not need protection and asylum should not risk his life, to cross illegally, is not welcome and will soon be returned to his country of origin. A special chapter, which affects the bill, is that of NGOs. As you know, the role of many of them was at least curious in previous years. Now a register of Greek and foreign non-governmental organisations is being set up at the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, to distinguish the hero from the wheat. Unfortunately, there are also serious organizations which are consistently serving and self-determination with the most persuasive human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, the decisions are difficult. But we have no choice. What happens, if we do not move in time, we have seen it with the sad episodes on our islands some time ago, we see it with the reactions in the areas where immigrants and refugees are transported, with the growing 'getification' of the entire capital and not just. So let's not have any delusion. A possible failure today in the management of immigration will, perhaps, mean an uncontrolled situation for the country in the not-so distant future, and that should under no circumstances be allowed to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u221	Thank you too, Mr Harakopoulos, for keeping time. Congratulations! Mrs Theano Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I too regret the loss of Dimitris Cremastino from a coronary, our dear colleague, not only here, in the House, but also in the university space. My warm and sincere condolences to his family. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in the middle of a pandemic, with fast track procedures, changes the law that it passed six months ago. It changes him, not because of a coronary, but because of an inability to manage the explosive immigration issue. All the bodies called on you here said that they disagree. All opposition parties are voting against it. European officials are intervening and tell you not to vote. You are, however, moving forward with the obsessedness of a human rights plan that "causers" the Greek society, destroys the islands and does not go a step forward in resolving the problem that exists. It's been ten months, and instead of improving the situation, you've made it explosively inhuman. This lack of humanity is also legally reflected today in your votes and in this bill alone. The lack of humanity is reflected in the provisions on unaccompanied minor applicants. I have argued these days that the bill makes the life of children, unaccompanied minors in our country, in violation of international and European directives. All he wants to do is deportation and minor unaccompanied refugee from supposedly safe countries of origin. This is why you have devised the following tricks, an international originality: those who are under 15 are not considered minors and are subject to accelerated procedures of self-deportation of asylum and expulsion. But, ladies and gentlemen, the minors are children and need special protection. The country will find it in front of her, the first minor you deport. Until then, it is shameful and hypocrisy, the crocodile tears for children, poor and Prime Ministerial farewells at airports. What's he doing in addition to the bill to take care of poor kids? Firstly, in terms of incapacity, the period which is being investigated - if necessary - is abolished in breach of European Directive 2033/32. All the institutions have said so. Secondly, the possibility of a minor having recourse to secondary crisis committees is abolished, based on the best interests of the child. All the social actors pointed it out. Thirdly, administrative detention is maintained, when children are not required to enter administrative detention, and today they are full, that is, two hundred and seventy-seven children are in detention on the basis of the latest EPC bulletin. Fourthly, the right of unaccompanied minors to take priority in the asylum crisis, which existed in the previous law, is abolished. Fifthly, however, the greatest distinction against these children is made by transferring responsibility for them to the Ministry of Immigration, to the Special Secretariat, Mr Meridakis. The unaccompanied minor refugees are not immigrants and therefore do not belong to the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Under International Law they are children, they need child protection, which is why the Ministry responsible for child protection is the Ministry of Labour. But this transfer of powers is accompanied by another international originality of the state of staff this time. All the services relating to unaccompanied applicants, i.e. the representation of the minor, the commission, the placement of the minor through ECA in structures, etc., all the services, I repeat, remain in Mrs Michaelidou, the Ministry of Labour. What can she do with them, after all the responsibilities, without the annoying services, are taken by Mrs. Darling? This troubling shape, which, of course, affects the best interests of the child, serves opaque procedures and the communication bubble of magnanimity, under the Prime Minister, who started in November and continued in the midst of a pandemic with the departures of the forty-nine children for Germany, at the airport, of five thousand two hundred children. Thirty-six SYRIZA Members have asked you about it. How many were sixty - one children chosen and prioritised from the five thousand two hundred? What procedures? Why did you bypass the CRP, the only body responsible for doing this job? EKKA has been designated under Law 4554/2018 as responsible for all actions for unaccompanied minor applicants: a record of coordination of hosting procedures, the definition of commissioners, the management of accommodation requests, the supervision of hosting sites. All recorded and monitored digitally and published every fortnightly official data, uniquely throughout Europe. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what is the evidence? It appears that in June 2019 on SYRIZA there were a total of three thousand eight hundred seventy minor unaccompanied, two thousand children in permanent hospitality structures and six hundred forty in hostels, apartments and hotels. In the reception and identification centre there were six hundred and eighty children to be settled. We arrived on 14 April, in the last fortnight - there is the last card, according to the EKKA's figures - the total number of unaccompanied minors being five thousand two hundred, two thousand being accumulated in the reception and identification centres of the islands and in detentions. That's what you've done in ten months. Congratulations! You are bypassing the law on admission and adoption, which you have already put in the fridge, because it does not allow you the digital system to do opaque acts and you want Mrs. Meridakis to say which refugee she is for assumption and what family she is going to go to. Let me see that, too. Otherwise, I do not understand how Mrs Meridakis has the responsibility of taking over, Mr Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u223	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u224	You are even talking about the law on the committee that we voted on. We delivered him ready with his secondary legislation until 2019 complete. You have not yet published the posts for the service, you have not opened the registers. All in EKKA! But the EPC is supervised by Mrs Michailidou, not by Ms. Meridakis. Who owns it? In the midst of a pandemic, the perfect state in its majesty! Legislative framework and structures are being circumvented at any time, and if they do not make it easier to change the laws as many times as they need. We are voting against the bill with full consciousness of the deadlocks it will create, the xenophobia it will increase, the violation of human rights and the fascism it will nourish. I was wondering, Mr President, in the days of incarceration, if we were to be different after the quarantine, if anything would have carved out this universal threat of death in our behaviours, in our policies. I was hoping that it would change our word, political controversy, not in its conflict form and structure - that is not the problem - but in terms of the sincere use of data, whether the substance would displace communication feasibility. When I see Parliament's icon, that's all, I understand everything has changed. But when I hear the reason given by the government and the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, I think I am in the House before the coronary. You continue unrealisticly the concealment and distortion of reality, the maintenance and undermining of social automation, the opacity and ultimately the deception. We, ladies and gentlemen, will attempt - it is not easy - to respond to the new reality and not a daily reality. This is our duty, indeed, to the Greek people. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in general terms, when reality does not suit us to it. But let's talk rationally. Speaking rationally, no one can doubt that migration flows exist, because there really is huge economic difference between North and South, there are geopolitical reasons and, of course, climate change. However, where the difference between parties is focused is how to deal with it. We have a side of this House that faces this situation with an entirely open border name of solidarity between the peoples, in the name of the anti-imperialist struggle, in the name of the fight against pluralism and clandestineism. There is another side, the extreme right, which cannot understand that, apart from the rights of refugees - migrants, as defined by European law and international conventions, there are also the rights that are extremely powerful, of local societies. It is this side which had left non-governmental organisations uncontrolled, the professional solidaritys, to the extent that the Minister of National Defence is forbidden to enter an old camp, which was converted into a refugee hospitality centre. These are the professional solidaritys that filled the country in a way, which - I would say - is not appropriate in a European country, with people, in fact, in a very bad situation and intimidated by Sub-Saharan Africa or by Afghanistan and Iran, generally by countries that were not at war. There are, of course, the people whom I classify as the irresistible right, who are clearly dealing with the technical issues of immigration, who, in every article in this bill or the previous ones brought by the government, see a violation of the rights of refugees. Basically, behind the way in which the rights of immigrants and refugees are viewed and in their way they cannot go hand in hand with local societies. We have reached the point, on the occasion of extremely unacceptable and bad events outside structures, to call for laws to be changed, to come to legislation, which, in fact, will even put people in prison - I can also call them ill-brained - who are going to take action just to eliminate - I would say - and to cause problems with refugees. We have reached this point too. These people, however, from all sides, actually charge, raise the extremist voices. The extreme voices in Greek society today come as a result of the rightfulness or the way in which one side of this Chamber thinks. On the other hand, we have the voice of reason. Yes, we must respect European law. Yes, we must respect the country's international conventions. Yes, however, we also need to take account of the rights of local communities. How's that gonna happen? This will be done with concrete measures; with measures, which even opposition did not raise any major objections. We are speeding up the framework through which asylum applications will be examined. I do not think there is much objection in this area. In fact, from what I understood from the statements made by the Ministers, there are also improvements in this area: closed centres. Yeah, closed centers. The Greek society also demands it. Since they will be combined with accelerating asylum performance and returns, I do not see where the problem is. They won't be prisons. It will not be for months, for years, as would probably have been the case with the previous asylum procedure. So that makes this bill, ladies and gentlemen: it also listens to local societies. Local societies showed solidarity when they had to, when the refugee caravans came, when under the responsibility of the previous government, a million refugees went through here. That's why they closed the border. They came to Greece because of the problems I mentioned at the beginning. But they came by and came by. At the same time, they stayed here too - I don't know how many - hundred thousand, hundred and twenty thousand immigrants - refugees. We will find this problem before us and it will be pan-European. I would ask you, however, in particular the opposition of the SYRIZA, to understand that currents in Europe are different. With these currents this bill goes hand in hand with the government. They are the currents that bring Greece to the forefront. Because on the one hand, it is an area of humanism and the reception of these oppressed people. On the other hand, it finds a balance so that it fully meets the needs of local communities. Of course, there is a transitional stage difficult. One thing, however, is certain, as has been shown by the specific figures, which the ministers have also mentioned from their specific activities and actions: they are completely moving, we are absolutely moving in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u227	We are also grateful for the timeliness and without text. Congratulations, Mr. Simopoulos. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u228	What made you modify a law four months after it started? It was in the framework of Dublin II and the unacceptable joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey, enclaving refugees and immigrants, violating their basic rights. Do you, however, guarantee conditions and conditions for a fairer distribution between the Member States, so that there is no so-called European solidarity? Or is it simplifying and automating the procedures of the convicted and victims of imperialist asylum seekers' interventions so that they do not give their luck to the networks of smugglers? No, of course not. Just generalise the prevention and detention of asylum seekers and reduce protective measures, even for unaccompanied minors. The result of this is to limit the rights of asylum seekers, following the laws passed by the previous SYRIZA Government. Your goal is to substantially reduce the flows of people forced to leave their homes, because they were at risk of living and replacing open hosting structures with closed ones. They are guarded, that is, without committing any crimes, families with children. Will someone say: "When they get worse and break labour rights, will they be left unscrupulously beaten rights of refugees and immigrants? When the so-called exceptional and temporary anti-corruption measures added in the middle of a pandemic to the work of the Middle Ages built in previous years by New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK and continuously extended and strengthened in the name of a normal resumption of the economy?’ The sure thing is that the rights of outdated refugees and migrants will also be worsened by the exploitation of the pandemic. This is what you are doing with the present, reactionary, repressive bill and indeed, with fast track procedures. Upgrade repression and deportation, limiting the rights of refugees and violating international treaties and protocols. It may be that Mr Kumucakos has referred to Turkey, but Turkey is haggling and blackmailing by blocking the string for refugees and immigrants with the backs of the US, NATO, the European Union, that is, your allies imperialists. What if the President of the Commission came to Evros? Von Der Lyen. What measures did they take? Nothing. Do you see how timely the JRC's position is to give asylum to the territory of Turkey and to leave there directly in the country they want? That is why it is no coincidence that the texts of coordinating committees, such as elected representatives and residents in Chios, are being echoed and signed by signatures calling for the withdrawal of the bill, because, they say, the arrangements are to make closed prisons of the European Union on the islands. This is what you are doing, by even more violating the rights of refugees and immigrants, creating an explosive mixture that imposes the withdrawal of the bill as unacceptable, as it consolidates the "Mori" and "BIAL, entangles, instead of immediate decongestion and perpetuates the drama of the inhabitants in the islands and refugees - migrants in the centers. That is why they ask and demand, among other things, from the government: do not create any over-structure - prison on any island. Dismantle them immediately and close the existing ones. No function and extension of hot spot concentration camps in any form, nor conversion of islands into soul prisons. Immediately disembark those refugees and immigrants in the islands and share them all over Greece and Europe. To stop the servile road and the fabrika exploitation with the disastrous results in human lives, as well as the destruction of the islands of the northeast Aegean. These are briefly requested. And what are you doing? In the name of speeding up the examination of asylum applications, you promote arrangements that are even greater rights for asylum seekers and unaccompanied minors, interfering with a series of obstacles and traps, with new shortcuts that lead to fast-track decision-making, generalized reservation. It's inhuman. It's barbaric. That is why many bodies show the reactionary and inhumanist disorientation of the bill, such as deprivation of the freedom of minors and the proposal for a complete abolition of the possibility, even in the form of protective care in the last need of vulnerable populations, as demanded by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Because the result is to increase the risk of these children being deprived of proper treatment and adulthood before their application is considered, thereby losing their right to reunification with their family in other countries or the opportunity to relocate to countries wishing to receive them. It is also challenging and unacceptable that the bill should provide for even greater intensification of the work of workers in the asylum service and its framework with external private lawyers. In other words, a new poster industry should be set up instead of being permanent and the necessary staff recruited, at a time when the ministry proceeded with the unacceptable dismissal of seventeen contractors. He said Mr. Metarakis was illegal. Well, to simulate them so there's no irregularity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The rotation of fixed-term staff leaving on expiry of their contract or renewing it shall require new recruitment of fixed-term staff to be retrained, with experience and training of staff in the field of their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u229	Slowly, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u230	I'm done. It is counterproductive and there are gaps and delays in services at the expense of applicants for international protection and speed of effectiveness. We therefore welcome the new mobilisation of workers in asylum services, claiming the renewal of contracts for all workers, but we would also call them permanently. We therefore call on the people to express their solidarity with both the rights of refugees and the islands, condemning the reactionary and repressive bill that we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much. The Dodecanese MP Mr Vassilis - Nikolaos Ypsilantis from New Democracy is called in Stepma. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome my fellow Professor Dimitris Cremastino, the distinguished scientist who offered health not only as a doctor and a university teacher, but also as a Minister and on our islands his valuable services as a Member of the Dodecanese. For me, he was a valuable companion in claiming fair demands for our islands. Our place is grateful to him. Our promise is to continue our struggle for the sanitation of our islands and the resolution of their great problems. From Stepma this I would like to express my condolences to his wife and his relatives. Be the memory of the eternal. This and, on the occasion of my first speech in plenary, following the restrictions on pandemic, I would like to thank all people on our islands, the Dodecanese, who gave their struggle by offering the man against the pandemic and by keeping a net of such that they make the Dodecanese almost intact and ready to accept, with each protocol of protection for the COVID -19 again from Greece, but also from countries that fulfil the conditions, tourists to enjoy our beauty and culture, the sea and the sun. Today's day also coincides with the anniversary of May 8, 1945, where the tradition of the islands of Dodecanese was signed by the Germans in the allies, which also marked the end of the great war in our region. From that time when our country through the misfortune of World War II exported refugees and migrants, today our country has changed to a country where refugees and migrants have been receptors. Such a situation clearly needs a systematic and well-structured policy. It is also true that the New Democracy has also been called upon in the past to tackle this serious issue at the height of the major economic crisis. But today the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is facing this same problem with a strong, along with other challenges, but with a great deal of success, the one against the pandemic, the provocativeness of Turkey in Evros, with the means, unfortunately, of people, refugees, these unfortunate people and violations of international law by Turkey at the expense of our country. I must also point out that for the first time our country in the first ten months of governance by New Democracy, thanks to the insight and determination of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for example to avoid, has become synonymous of credibility and quality. Staying now in the area of immigration policy and the draft legislation in question, as a first general point, I have to say that in political practice and gaps, but also possibly failures, we are often called upon to heal, but, in the following respect of the Greek reality, a great difference: the New Democracy seeks to restore them immediately, and SYRIZA insists on its mistakes and repeats them. Unfortunately, this is indisputable with a basic principle, that of serving our national interests. Instead of vigilance and responsibility, the Greek people, unfortunately, also receive a obsessive, ideological and toxic opposition today. It is something that was a friendly tactic of SYRIZA, for example in the period 2012-2015, when it denounced the government and abroad that it allegedly violates International Law. The same goes for today, overshadowed, differently, in other ways. But that is where it aims, there, unjustified and unfounded. With the draft legislation being passed, ladies and gentlemen, improvements are indeed being made to Law 4639/2019 which we voted on towards the end of the year. This law changed the asylum procedures, which were from 1-1-2020 new asylum applications to a first degree in twenty-four and four days, instead of eighty-five days. Instead of four thousand asylum decisions that the Asylum Service had made in previous years, seven thousand decisions were made in March and fifteen thousand in April. The hundred and twenty-five thousand pending cases are now a hundred thousand and, as the Minister said, they will soon be fewer. This is the result of a more effective administration, since asylum structures have been strengthened. We abandoned SYRIZA's dogmatics that did not believe in returns by changing legislation and we consistently serve the basic choice of the government for decongestion of the islands. Around 12,000 movements have occurred from the islands. The aim is to improve the provisions already adopted. In all this, there are specific provisions which have been analysed by my dear colleagues in detail and in article. In the light of the consistent and effective policy on immigration based on the substantial reduction in flows, the reduction of crises and better border guarding, the decongestion of the islands, the faster separation of asylum and the implementation of refunds, Greece responds to a major problem that concerns the whole of Europe. Here today we are giving the answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The further strengthening of the administrative framework for the functioning of the structures of immigration policy, which is being carried out - I end, Mr President - ultimately strengthens the country's institutions. With these thoughts, I express my support for this bill, and I also congratulate the Ministry's political leadership on their systematic and obviously effective work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Andreas Michaelides is now called to Stepma by SYRIZA, Hiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law that we are debating today, it is clear that the government is trying in exceptional circumstances and a specific function of this House, with fast track procedures, to support its unsuccessful recipe for dealing with the immigration - refugee issue, including some of its ideas. It has, for example, found the opportunity for the government to institutionalise the refugee superstructure on the islands. Apart from the concerns that have been made public about what this will mean for the living conditions of refugees and migrants, in addition to the threat posed to the islands by the creation of permanent 'Franean' detention centres, it is really worth wondering, because the Government and the Minister for Migration have not personally understood what happened about two months ago from the Argentine - the Argentine withdrawal of MMs after the pandemic, the diversions and the violence they committed on our islands, by hemorrhaging Chios and Lesvos. Mr Mitarakis has not understood that this project for the construction of over-structures has been embedded in the universal refusal of local communities, the alleged 'digital dialogue and consensus' which the Minister falsely referred to. If you consider pandemic also involves collective amnesia and, in fact, the recent past, you are very foolish, gentlemen of the government. The government has been supposed to refuse to multiply hospitality structures on the islands so far. So what's the matter? And, of course, no concern for the effective decongestion of the islands is taken. The figures that the government itself makes public speak for themselves; the quadrupling of people in Chios after ten months, fivefold and multiplication elsewhere. I could refer to a few deeply problematic points of the bill, the attempt to ensure general detention and the limitation of the possibility of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, as the various obstacles to the effective examination of asylum applications and, of course, the infamous anti-democratic prediction of'musical funds', which eventually became 'clear secret funds'. But let me focus on some events that have taken place in Chios recently, but also on other islands, which are extremely worrying examples of government policy towards refugees, international law and national legal order. In particular, they were made public in the local electronic press, but also in Athenian media, incidents of the disappearance of people on the beaches of Chios and Samos, who seem to have disembarked these beaches and then disappeared. I am referring recently to the beach of Myrtia, the settlement of Drakias in Lesvos, the beach of Monolas recently in Chios, but also to other areas which I cannot mention for the economy of time. These incidents occurred at random and were reported in the last month. We assume that there may have been other similar incidents, which for random reasons have not been made public. They report eyewitnesses who saw and spoke to these people. Some even claim that they called themselves and alerted local authorities. In parallel, photographic material has been published that substantiates the human presence in specific areas. Some of this material I shall be tabling in the Minutes of the House on the briefing of this House. The responses from the competent local authorities are identically negative, while the relevant ministers remain speechless. They are born as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, ruthless questions have been raised by these people, who are now in the process of engaging in the institutions of the Greek state in their management of the legality. It is obvious, Minister, that if you do not give any convincing answers to these questions, the theory of reduced and zero flows is completely collapsed, unless you have launched a new policy in the management of the refugee - immigration issue by the disappearance of the people who arrive in our country. But these practices, if they apply beyond their repulsive nature, give rise to self-evident condemnation by European and international organisations, expose the country to the international community and unfortunately allow our neighbour to move our fingers. So give immediate answers. Management of the refugee is a constant struggle with the values of respect for legitimacy, rights, humanity and democracy in the end. Let me say one last thing, Minister. I hope that you will not resort again - something you have done in the committee during the debate - in the well-known phrase about propaganda and third-country agents. This is a well-known practice of your prolongation since the 1950s for the extermination of political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u237	Here you go, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u238	For some reason, Mr Michaelides insists - a dialogue that we held in committee - that he reproduce press releases which the competent authorities have already answered. These facts that you say you've read on some local websites, for the government there are no facts. It is indeed a fact that is reproduced by third countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. Mr Christodoulos Stefanades, Member of the Samos Parliament, has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we lost Professor Dimitris Kremastino. It was a special personality in medical, cardiological, academic and political space for over four decades. I knew him personally as I had close cooperation and of course grief is personal and great. The warmest condolences to his wife Jenny and to all those who loved him. Today we are called upon to vote on a bill on immigration - refugee. It is a time-consuming problem from which, unfortunately, my prefecture, Samos, like many other regions, has been affected with incalculable consequences. As it is easily understood, addressing this problem quickly requires reflexive, flexibility, ability to see all aspects of the problem, to take into account the inhabitants of the islands, migrants, refugees, neighbouring unpredictable host country, geopolitical factors, the international community, human rights and the culture of the people who come to our country. This temporary coexistence with these people is not always smooth, and so the work of the government, local actors and local residents is becoming even more difficult. Let me give you one example only, a great fire at Samos's Cymposium on April 26th, when all the State was in quarantine regime and under fear of pandemic, as various groups of different ethnicities and religions gathered fiercely. Don't be foolish, ladies and gentlemen. Every day the inhabitants of the eastern Aegean are mainly living in a constant threat and insecurity. This insecurity was intensified by the extra fear that this pandemic was stirring. We all saw the situation in Evros the previous period and the situation in the Aegean. There is an urgent need to fortify our borders, which is, of course, the need to improve our strategy towards immigration. In order to reach a solution, both gradual changes and immediate and effective decisions are needed. Of course, since we are talking about such a fragile issue, it is necessary to introduce new laws, but also to improve the existing ones. With today's bill we have to vote on, with the changes proposed, more flexibility is given to procedures and services that are the foundation of the New Democracy's government policy on immigration. Initially, it seeks to speed up the process of granting international protection, since there have been malfunctions in the existing system, malfunctions which have made it difficult to tackle the immigration problem. The process of recording those who come to the country can now be handled by the Host and Identification Service. Acceleratingly, the first part of the bill provides for the possibility of setting up a register of lawyers who will carry out the debts of assistant rapporteurs to facilitate the handling of asylum claims and speed up procedures. At the same time, the deadline for the final decision on each application for a rejection primary and, of course, the independent refugee authorities are improving, while technological equipment - and this is important - will simplify procedures and reduce bureaucracy. We know from experience that one of the most important steps to achieve the decongestion of the islands is to speed up these processes. The second and third parts provide for amendments to the provisions to improve the functioning of the refugee, reception and identification authority, the General Secretariat for Migration Policy, and major changes are made to the Code for Migration and Social Inclusion. In the fourth part, which concerns the proper functioning of the relevant Ministry, transparency is enhanced. This is very important in our time, with the veil of Scandalology that exists. Transparent statements should be made from among the heads of state, all the institutions involved in this process by the Ministry of Migration Policy. The award of international protection, the improvement and acceleration of procedures that make it possible is a very important task. Therefore, the current draft law is objectively in a proper and necessary direction. More generally, however, the policy of the New Democracy Government on immigration - refugee - is in the right direction. This is evidenced by the analytical evidence provided by the relevant Ministry. For example, since April 2020, with effective border guarding, there has been a dramatic reduction in migration flows by around 97% -98% compared to April last year. There is also a decrease in the number of immigrants - refugees in the CYPDs by around 9% and an increase of 129% in the adoption of asylum decisions in April only in 2020. These results are only indicative of the policy of the newly established Ministry. From January to April 2020 the islands' Gypsies have been decongested, slightly but stable, as 10% of refugees - migrants have been promoted in the mainland. Ladies and gentlemen, is this all enough, what has been done in a few months and has not been done in five years? Of course not. But it was important, it was a great step in the right direction, as is today's bill, which, after its vote on a new period of addressing this huge problem that shakes the country, will begin, a period when the inhabitants of the remote islands of our country, those who have lifted and lifted the great weight, which our country, Greece, in the previous period, has touched, will feel just and regain their vital space, which has been conquered for centuries and with blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u242	Time was okay, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u243	In time you were a gentleman with "K" capital. The best so far. Congratulations! Mr John - Michael Loverdos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, in this House, we are debating a very important bill for a major problem, which, if it had not been for the horn pandemic, would clearly be the biggest problem facing our country all this time. It does not mean that, because we are in the coronary pandemic, this matter has been forgotten, overrun. Of course not. We will have it before us for many years, for too many years, even when we forget - I hope this will happen - and the coronary. What can I tell you about the substance of the bill? My friend, Kostas Katsafadas, the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the non-Mitatis, the Minister, said so very well. All the issues related to the bill were answered. What I would like to point out, however, is that precisely because the scale of the problem is so great, often in that country we do and give very simple explanations. I hear from the left - and I mean not only SYRIZA, but I mean the whole Left - saying 'you, in the New Democracy, have no sensitivities, as we do, as if the Left had a monopoly on sensitivity. There are also some left extremists who call us racist sometimes. Nobody in New Democracy is a racist. There are no racists in the New Democracy. We do not consider that a man, because he has a different color or has a different religion or comes from another country or has other options, ideological, political or sexual preferences, is inferior to us under any circumstances. If that were the case, if there was racism in the New Democracy, the New Democracy would not be the great liberal party, because precisely the word "liberalism" is the exact opposite of racism. Racism is the end of it. In the same way, of course, there is also an exaggeration of a portion of extremist extremists on the other side of the political spectrum, who supposedly call us supporters or fans of Muslims, who call all the detainees "lathonists" and ask us to throw them all into the sea. Of course these are extreme behaviours which in no way reflect either the views of the New Democracy or the views of Mr Mitsotakis, nor, of course, the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. Greeks are neither racist nor extreme. They understand that people who come from war zones, who are still persecuted for their policies or other beliefs and are in danger of losing their lives, must be protected. However, Greece cannot afford to have so many foreign immigrants in our country. I wish we could make a world unity and a world peace and a world humanity. All this is very nice in words, but it's not in practice. Greece is a small country of ten - eleven million inhabitants, a poor country, as it has done in recent years and a country that is trying to stand on its feet again. Greece has the misfortune to be at the forefront of migration flows. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis inherited a huge problem called "immigration". Huge, disproportionate to the potential of any state to face it. You're going to tell me: Last July we made mistakes as government? Yeah, we made mistakes. Of course we did. The biggest mistake, in my opinion, is that the Ministry of Migration Policy was then abolished. Mitsotakis, however, had the courage to recognize his mistake and re-establish it and now a new Ministry has come, which must stand on its feet and do fine, manages well, naturally under many difficulties. This bill comes to heal all these difficulties that Metarakis, Koumoutsakos, the two excellent Secretarys General, Logottis and Georgiadis face. He's coming to face all this. There are many things that some of the opposition might not agree to. Their right, we have democracy. Anyone can agree or disagree, but well-meaningly, not badly. I'll tell you something that might seem strange to you. When Metarakis took over Minister for Migration Policy, I said inside: "Man goes for political suicide. And he and Kumucasakos are politically destroyed." I said it because I watched the climate. I admit - and I say it publicly - that I was surprised. They have done better than I expected within the framework of their possibilities, so far they are doing well. You're gonna tell me: Is the problem over? Of course not. As I said, we have too much road ahead of us. It'll be hard and worse, possibly, and harder. Don't think this case is over. Because in April we had reduced flows, don't take courage, Mr. Mitarakis, Minister, do you? We had reduced hours because of the lockdown and the coronary pandemic and the closure of the borders. But precisely because there is this coronary pandemic, we may soon have a food crisis in African and Asian countries and have much larger migration flows towards our country, since our country is Europe's borders. So the problem is there. There will be here in Greece and after Metarakis and after Kumoutsakos and after me and after SYRIZA and after New Democracy possibly. That is why we must all be united in a common line of approach to a common risk that is national risk above all, always in the light of the sensitivity that all of us have and all of us must show to our fellowman, it is enough that we have the opportunity to do so. I'll tell you, friends and friends, that the coronary will pass. That's for sure. He will leave behind debris in many cases and very big problems in the economy. At this difficult time in our country we are all obliged to give the struggle together, which is not the struggle of the New Democracy or SYRIZA or Mera25 or the Greek Solution. It's a struggle for our nation and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u245	Thank you for keeping time, Mr. Loverdos. Come on, Mr. Santorinier, raise the company from the Dodecanese. So Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Seventy-five years ago, the German forces handed over to the Allied Powers the dominance of the Dodecanese, in my special homeland, Symi. So this is an important day for a Dodecanese. On such an important day, he chose an important man to leave life, Dimitris Kremastinos, a man who honoured science, parliamentaryism and politics, a man who, as few as he served and supported public health and left a considerable task of health infrastructure. Above all, it was a model of politics with social sensitivities and progressive thinking. It gave me the honour to share thoughts and exchange views on the life, politics and the future of the country. The political life of the country, the Dodecanese and science today are poorer. I want to express my condolences to his family and wife and say that one thing is certain, that a man dies when forgotten by collective memory. And Jimmy, as his friends called him, will never be forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the bill. The government's delays and repatriations to the refugee - immigration - are proverbial and have cost our country and especially to our islands. Because of your inability and the constant changes responsible for the refugee issue - six, seven, I do not know how many you have changed - because of your ideology and the initial abolition of the Ministry of Migration Policy that you have finally restored, because of the far-reaching cut of your irresponsible opposition tactics during our administration, you have led the islands to their limits. The rapporteur of the New Democracy asked how many immigrants this country can fit in. And I ask you, how many immigrants can these islands fit? Because with your own policy within a year you have managed to triple and in some cases quadruple the population of refugees and immigrants on the islands. You compare to your worst and say 'We are now better'. Last year, however, we had one third of the population of refugees and immigrants on the islands. It is now obvious that you have decided to turn the islands into soul storehouses, so that you do not upset your executives and voters on mainland Greece after you have inflamed their minds with extreme right slogans during the election season. There is no other solution than the decongestion of the islands and the transfer of refugees and immigrants to organised open structures in the inland, with emphasis on vulnerable groups. Especially in these pandemic conditions, you cannot encroach on people like those on the islands, causing insecurity on them, on the islands and on the workers of the Cyts. But what should we wait for? You've forgotten the islands, and that's for granted. Because our islands are the ones that in the pandemic crisis will feel the biggest crisis, because our islands are relying on tourism, because our islands in this crisis will feel the most entrepreneurial, most unemployed and you do absolutely nothing to support the islands, support tourism, support entrepreneurship. You leave them because you want to create a new elite that will manage tourism on the islands. So, having all this in mind, one would expect that you would bring arrangements to improve immigration policy. Instead, you are bringing in a bill setting our country a candidate for new convictions for violations of international law. You are now legislating, as this government has often done lately, against what the institutions say. Legislation despite Amnesty International's reaction, despite the reactions of well-known NGOs with a long and substantial presence in the space, such as "Doctors of the World", "ActionAid", "Arson" and other dozens of NGOs. You do not even care about the view of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Mrs Miyatovic, who is very concerned about the provisions contained in your bill. What else are you doing with this bill? But, of course, what your government is usually doing, especially in recent months. Convert any crisis into a chance for friends and friends. For how else to interpret the almighty poster you are planning to hire, just to help 'blue' children. It's a state! Besides, you know. But is that all? No, of course not. Introduce also secret funds, as if you have to manage the state's top secrets and tell us that it is a matter of dealing with poachers. Isn't that why the Greek police and the Port Corps? So, what are you going to do with these secret funds? What is it that you don't want to be revealed? Direct awards to construction companies or direct awards to ferry companies? Indeed, Minister, because you referred to the question I have asked, can you answer us why you have stacked on fast-track refugees and immigrants putting the lives of the same, the policemen who accompanied them and the seamen, not only because of a coronary, but also because the passengers have exceeded the ship's protocols? And don't listen to the press's excuses that they were a closed community and it was safer to move by charter, because on every island these closed communities were different. So it was not a single closed community and it was not within this closed community whose police have put life at risk, it was not in a closed community whose seafarers put life at risk. Exceptional circumstances. But most of the immigrants were at least 20 days on these islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u247	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Poppas told us about Kastelorizo, let's go tell them what we'd do to the immigrants. According to our rule in Kastelorizo, there were no more than three days left. We took them. According to your own administration, it's been more than a month. And don't tell us that we had chartered ships in 2015, because yes, we had chartered, because we moved thousands every day, beyond the ships that were routed. We did not make a contract for four hundred refugees when there were empty ships operating the same routes. And anyway, what need led you to make two days' expression contest with only one attendant? Do you know how much extra they cost us? They cost us 335,000 euros, six times the amount! We didn't say why the transfer took place. We said why it cost us six times more than a 400,000-euro contract, and the tickets we would pay would be EUR 65 000. Are these the funds you want to hide or do you have other grander projects? Do you want to finance Mr Stefani's aphrodite account, or did you forget that as well? Why did we not forget the nonsense we paid for 500,000 euros for 2.7 km of network. Did you at least give it to the Port House to face a oil crisis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u249	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u250	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government comes to complete the work that it left incomplete in November, before the Ministry, Mr Chrysochoidis, was founded, indifferent to the country's forthcoming convicts by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. It chooses not just to legislate outside, but to contrast with the spirit and letter of the Geneva Convention and of human rights directives. Withdraw this bill, which creates more problems than you have already caused with your foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. Until the Step is ready, Minister Mitakis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u252	I thank Mr Santorinio for his speech and for the fact that he answered his questions alone in a rhetorical response. I have already said by the committee, Mr Santorinier - perhaps you were not in committee - that people who arrived in March had to be moved to the committee, where the act of legislation applied and were therefore illegally imprisoned, together with policemen from eleven Aegean islands to different structures of mainland Greece. There was a thought that we could use the line ship and a lot of people would come in...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u253	A direction. Piraeus was going to Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u254	It wasn't Piraeus. You're not properly informed. They went from Gia to Kavala. I don't know if there's a route to Kavala. And from other islands they went Kavala. They went from different parts to different parts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u255	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u256	Please, no dialogue so we won't be late. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u257	And you realize that there had to be a travel programme, to go in specific hours to specific places from multiple islands. It was chosen - and I think in the middle of a coronary, it was rightly chosen - not to enter the line ship, with passengers starting from these islands to take themselves to Piraeus for personal affairs. The solution was therefore chosen to be transferred on multiple routes from eleven islands to two thousand people. And I think we finally managed to do this without a case and no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too. The second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios, from New Democracy, has the floor. Did he write "Samos" that chair, why did the previous one, Mr. Stefanades, sit there? Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the SYRIZA rapporteur, but also to many speakers from SYRIZA, saying that the flows on the islands have more than doubled during the New Democracy's governance in relation to the time that SYRIZA ruled. That's true. But they did not tell us how low the number in New Democracy was in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, to compare. But let's take things in turn. In 2015, with a government now in SYRIZA, the number of migrant refugees - take note - of the forty-three thousand eighteen people who were in 2014, ejected in 2015 to eight hundred sixteen thousand sixty-three people - you heard well - of which 95% came from the maritime borders. Only five hundred and four thousand passed from Lesvos. Do you remember what he broke into about this number ejection? The statement by Mr Tsipras that there are no maritime borders, as well as the position of the relevant ministers that those who wish to enter, are then melted away and then disappear to other destinations of the European Union. The phenomena of Identified and Border Closure appeared from neighbouring Schengen countries. And all this for what? Because effective protection of the marine borders has ceased, resulting in migration flows, that is, traffickers, exploit the new ideological policy of SYRIZA and have chosen to follow flows from the Aegean and Turkish borders. It was then attempted to correct the problem with the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey in March 2016, which, in essence, the islands of the North Aegean - and especially Lesvos - became a storeroom of souls in dramatic conditions for asylum seekers and immigrants. It should be taken into account that the flows had declined dramatically in 2015. In 2017 there were thirty thousand and fifty thousand in 2018, of which the Syrians are only two in twelve, while 50% are Afghans and Pakistanis. So the majority of them have an economic immigrant profile rather than a refugee. In addition, our government received some seventy thousand pending asylum applications. In view of this, the situation on the islands of Northern Aegean is tragic at the moment, as it remains about forty thousand asylum seekers and immigrants, while only on the island of Lesvos is around twenty - one thousand people. Really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the four and a half years when you were government how many people returned to Turkey, on the basis of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey? Can I talk to you? Listen to the number. Just a thousand eighty-eighty-five people. This is the result of your policies, and of course this is due to your frustration, but above all to your ideological refusal to return to those who are not entitled to refugee status. Let us now see the results of this European Union-Turkey Declaration of March 2016 - and please hold on to the date, March 2016 - that you accepted and baptised this statement as an agreement. Under point 3 of the Declaration, Turkey is required to take all necessary measures to prevent the opening up of new maritime or land-based routes of illegal immigration from Turkey to the European Union. I asked the relevant ministers, and I ask now. What have you done with the violation of this term by Turkey? And why didn't you guard the border ever since? Subsequently, you invoked and invoked the geographical restriction, that according to this declaration, immigrants must remain on the Greek islands until they have been examined for asylum. This was only interpreted, because item 2 of the declaration refers only to Syrian returns. I read it: 'For every return of Syria to Turkey from the Greek islands, another Syrian will be resettled from Turkey to the European Union'. But a few days later, seeing the deadlock you have been in, especially at the beginning of April of the same year, with Article 14(2) of Law No.4375/16 which you voted on, you have adjusted exactly the opposite. Listen to what you say: "If there is a CYT, a Reception and Identification Center, a overpopulation, the commander may refer a number to the inland." But now let's see what we received from SYRIZA in July 2019. As I have said before, the immigrants have more than doubled on our islands and I have to say that we have delayed reacting to the exacerbation of migratory flows. Of course, mistakes were made and, in some cases, people were misled, for example, in my home country of Lesvos, who without safe planning and understanding, were choosing inappropriate spaces for the creation of a CYT, so the Prime Minister himself had to intervene in order to put things into order and restore calm. But, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who are today being cut off for overcrowding in the structures of the islands, can you tell us what structures you have given us? Because the structures you delivered us to island Greece were overcrowded, and in mainland Greece insufficient and thus no available places were available. In addition, we received seventy thousand asylum requests from you, without having handled them. Also in 2016-2019, twenty-five thousand new vulnerability certificates were issued in Mytilini to avoid expulsion by those who were certified as vulnerable. Justice is investigating this. But what did you do? Didn't it bother you to see what's going on? You have simply done nothing, because your policy was to integrate everyone into the Greek society, regardless of whether they were refugees or immigrants and not to assess the asylum claims submitted and to subject them to refugee status. On the contrary, you welcomed them and invited them to come to Greece. I'm going to file a recent report. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, I'll need one or two more minutes. And I wonder - as far as the JRC is concerned - how did you conclude after what I said that the New Democracy policy was the same as SYRIZA's policy? Finally, I would like to make the following points. Firstly, the European Union should have formulated a specific single asylum policy and reformed, on the basis of the solidarity clause, its immigration policy, which was not done and forced by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to speak hard lately in Europe about their omissions and responsibilities. I wonder now, as far as the Union of Regional Authorities and the CEDEFOP, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, are concerned, if it is in the remit of the regional authorities, in accordance with the provision of Article 186 of Law 3852/10, the development planning area, the main action of which is to promote national strategic objectives. And is it not a national strategic objective to tackle immigration, in view of the fact that it has affected tourism? Do you know, masters and mayors, that in the islands of the North Aegean, the cancellations of travellers approach 70%? Mitsotakis cannot ask the European partners for a proportionate distribution of migrants as a means of implementing the solidarity clause of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and for this justice to deny it in our country. You cannot demand an increase in Community and public resources and a reduction in the agony of our islands. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The same applies to Members of all the groups. We all have to put back on all the regions and accept all the Immigrant regions and the 'bad' Mitsakis can be reduced by the difficult work that has been done. Checks. You have accused us of having passed an act of law which allows the Minister for Migration and Asylum to claim property if reasons of public order or health require it. Why this philosopher? Didn't you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, allow Mr.4325/2015 to order personal property? You have not maintained the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 41 of Law 3536 according to which...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I read: 'Extreme need at a time of peace which requires the requisition of real estate and movable property is any immediate social need that could jeopardise public order and health'. What more did the legislative act say? Didn't Mr. Tsipras ask for all private clinics to check on the coronary? So, what are you telling us? Are there democratic and non-democratic requirements according to who legislates them? Does public policy and health not concern us all? Finally, I want to refer to the closed structures - and I shall conclude, Mr President. Why are the closed centers scaring you? Is it not necessary to detain illegally entering the country, the offenders, those who are refused asylum and those who are affected or require examination for the coronary? What's your proposal for them? Because the words and declarations are good, but I don't hear solutions. I conclude with a reference made yesterday by the SYRIZA rapporteur to the committee responsible. He said that the one-sided Sanctions Committee on the islands - because it will only apply to them - does not provide the guarantees to address asylum claims to the second degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, I will be charged with discretion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u263	I'm done, Mr. President. But the courts, Mr. Colleague, with a single composition, are avengeing cases of many millions of euros in special procedures. If they're wrong, there's a secondary court. Our procedural system, like the procedural systems of all advanced states of law, is based on the possibility of error. That's why there's the second degree, to be judged with greater credibility and certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, too. Mrs Sophia Sakova from Mera25 has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, within a few months you are fundamentally revising the immigration legislation. It is certain that you will have to review it again because it will prove ineffective and ineffective. Government improvements are short-sighted and fragmented, serve specific ideals and micro-participatory interests and are not even close to the core of the problem. You have given your mark by suspending the right to apply for asylum, completely despising international law. And it is tragic, since tomorrow is the seventy-five years anniversary of the global victory against fascism, which gave the world hope for a new reality with respect for law. Our party's rapporteur has referred in detail and in detail to the bill. I myself will only dwell on some points revealing your perceptions and policy. You did not renew contracts to experienced asylum operators because they were trade unionists. At their posts you have recruited ten posters of your choice so far. For the procedure for hearing objections by individual committees and the provisions of Article 6, your objective is obvious: to discontinue interviews and apply a presumption of non-cooperation and unreliability to asylum seekers. In Article 4 you amputate the presumption of inadmissibility against international conventions on the rights and protection of minors. This creates a completely insecure environment for children who are also victims. I have another question: why is there a lack of clear methodology for determining the safe third country individually? And I'm explaining what I mean. Turkey for the government is considered to be a safe third country? And do not hide behind the declaration - not even a binding agreement - between Turkey and the European Union. I would like a clear answer here. Turkey, according to the Government, is a country with the rule of law, independent justice, a distinction of powers? Is there any respect for human rights, women's rights or minorities in Turkey? Is there a freelance in Turkey? Does Turkey's status respect international law and international conventions? If that is the case, please do not refer to sultans, violations of rights and so on. Gentlemen of the government, you know very well that this bill does not improve anything because it simply mistakes when recognising the goal or even misses it. Whether you are blind or not aware of what is happening. Both versions are dangerous to the country. You cannot deal with the refugee, immigration crisis as a stallion crisis, which only concerns the management of fifty to sixty thousand people in Greece who are already too many. You know very well that it is a global problem, which has both the future and the causes that give rise to it. That is, the challenge and maintenance of war conflicts, climate change and the impoverishment of entire populations. At the same time, the West is working for extreme fundamentalist movements that baptise them "Russian Islam", while nothing radical has. At the same time, it targets all genuinely radical progressive and democratic voices in the third and the developing world. The leading players in this game are the strong countries of the European Union, the United States and NATO, who are fighting on the geopolitical chess board, serving the economic interests that are intertwined with their governments, no matter what the world's destruction. At the same time, these same countries veto the refugees created by their own policy. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not want concentration camps in their territories. They commissioned others and mainly, in Greece, this work. Here is the responsibility of the former, but also of the current government. In which of the international fora our country is involved, as you claim, even an objection, a reservation, anyway, which highlights the real problem? When did you put the interest of Greece in harmonized and colluding with International Law in the face of and above the interest of strong economic interests, those we call partners? What is your plan for the future, since it is obvious that this problem is timeless and growing worldwide? Even if Turkey adheres to the agreeds, the more than three million refugees on its territory will not cease to have the hope of a better life in a European state that, in the vast majority of them, is not Greece. The constant practice that our country and the current government have been following in recent years is simply to discipline the veto that others, of the Visegrad countries, for example. I want you to tell me when you will decide to use this weapon called veto, not to support anti-European and illegal practices, such as the countries mentioned above, but rather to support the European achievements that match the national interest. When do you think of vetoing the implementation of a decision already taken on analogous, that is, the absorption of refugees and immigrants from all European Union countries, according to the GDP and the population of each of them? The Minister of Finance when we suggested vetoing in the Eurogroup in the light of the negotiation on the Eurobond, has humiliated it from a parliamentary step, dismissing any negotiating instrument in advance. If this behaviour reflects the general political decision of the Government on its attitude and relations within the European Union, then it makes no sense to any bills. If the scope of the government's policy is exhausted in blind obedience to decisions taken in absentia, say it, ladies and gentlemen of the government, readily to the people, that your government intends to validate just what others' veto and political plans are commanding. And I ask you, for reasons of minimum national dignity, to stop presenting the complete subjection as an alleged geopolitical upgrade. Today in the bill you are taking another extremely dangerous step. On the pretext of dealing with the problem, you are aiming at your policy on refugees, the poor and the devastated of the world, closing the eye on the extreme right intolerance that you are trying to embellish and adopt. And it is very easy to make the "paulder" to the impoverished and subject to the mighty. Conscientiously wrong political targeting and communication hypocrisy must also have limits. I mention a timely example from another area of your policy, and I will close with that, Mr President. You are trying to politically exploit the tragic event in Marfin and you are announcing honorary plaques. But, Minister, since November you have already filed an appeal to the Council of State for compensation due to the State, subjecting the families of the victims of the allegedly honouring. I do not want to describe that - I leave it to those who are listening to us - but I will wait, because there is some information that they say so, for you to resign your right. I hope that we will see that so that we can judge you for that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u266	He's quitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u267	So I close with a point. Reality will always be avenged by anyone who insists on ignoring it. At the current juncture of this kind of policy, it is very worrying because it is dangerous for the present and for the future of the country. Mr President, with our small powers, we were also calling for and resisting this prospect. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much to the President for the time. Immigration and Asylum Minister George Koumoutsakos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u269	A brief explanation I want to make. Because this is the second time in today's sitting that we are inaugurated because we have not conducted or why we are not vetoing, as just now by the representative of Mera25, but also before the head of KINAL, Mr Gennimatas, I would like to clarify something. You are asking us and you are relinquishing us because we have not vetoed a negotiation that has not begun, and I have presented to you in detail all the moves to strengthen the negotiating position of Greece that we have made, which we have the five first line group of countries. We have built an alliance - and these are not easy things - we have built the Eastern Mediterranean team where we are participating - and are in the Minutes and I ask you to see all the papers we have submitted - at every stage, in any slight advance in the preparation of the process. How do you come and ask us to do something before the process begins? Is that what it looks like? It shows, on the one hand, that you have not seen where the process of preparing for the European Immigration and Asylum Pact is and, on the other, that you are only vetoing and reflexing. You don't have a creative attitude toward things. You do not support or have any arguments to support a position. You know, veto is the failure of the persuasion of national positions. Then you end up in the veto, when your positions have not exercised the necessary persuasiveness to find support. It's an endeavor to fail your positions. Let's start the negotiation, let's see how we go. Has the European Commission not yet submitted its proposal and are you calling on us to veto something you do not know and we do not know? Let's get serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u271	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u272	Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u273	Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u274	The question of veto is a process which the Minister and I also know very well. We both did in the European Union. I'll talk to you about a very recent veto. I will talk to you about the Eurobond that someone vetoed, and just because he vetoed, he couldn't pass. And he vetoed Germany's backup. You know that. So don't talk to me personally about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u275	Mrs Sacorafa, thank you very much. We've been overtaken for a second now. You understand he's President. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution for six minutes. Mr. Heta, he told me to remind you of your President from the Greek Solution that you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u276	One more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u277	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much. You know I'm very kind and adaptive. I'm starting too fast. I don't have time. I've only got six minutes. To keep what we are hearing here today by the ministers, by Mr Metarakis, who is legislating and by Mr Kumoucasco. We have heard the Minister who is legislating to actually denounce and say that we are being exploited in Greece and that the funds of Greece are being exploited by the NGOs. I wrote it down, and I say it first. But you have to stop this. This is our job to observe and to denounce. You have to close the NGOs, you have the power. So do you see money that is for Greece to use and exploit the NGOs and leave it? Our question is a unique one. Why don't you shut them down? No one's answered. Why don't you shut them down? Turn them off. You're saying a lot of them are illegal. You admit everything the Greek Solution says, but you do not close them, keep them open. Also, we need to separate something. Another bill brought here today by Mr Mitrakis, which is unacceptable - and I will say what he is doing - and what Mr Kumucaskos has said to us, which is more on the foreign policy side than that, and I understand that. To keep in this Chamber today what Mr Koumoutsakos said, so that all Greeks and Greeks can hear it. What did he reveal? Because some people don't know it, but for us it's known. He revealed about the SYRIZA agreement - just to say it folkly, it was a creation of SYRIZA - that those who go from the islands to the mainland have no right to return back. Yes or no? Yes, sir. This is a creation of SYRIZA. We will try as a country, as Greece - because it is our issue, Mr Kumucasco, all Greeks and in this part we must be united to achieve it - to change it. It's hard. Where do you get a Turk to have a dialogue here and get in touch? But at the moment, it is true that anyone moving from the islands to the inland cannot go back. If that's the case, why don't you stop and shut down the Mitarakis trade, which has taken them all and goes two hundred to Serres, three hundred here, four hundred here, five hundred here? Stop transporting. So you will empty the islands by charging all illegal immigrants to the rest of the places? I'll tell you what this bill works very simply. You're walking around illegal immigrants. That's what you're doing. You're walking them. You get them out of here and get them out of there. You're dispersing them. You're walking them. You do that. You nurse them and take care of them. This is what the bill actually achieves. And I answer the question why do we not vote on it. What can we vote on from this bill, Ministers? Can Greek Solution ever pass this bill? You pay them, you feed them, you offer them everything. You have created them a earthly paradise in our country, largely. Earthly paradise! The money they get, from 400 and 500 euros a month, hold 50 euros - so the wages where they were - and the remaining 450 send them back, buy homes, take care of their families. She's fine. And you're supporting NGO business. That's what you're doing. Well, the words are good, the goals are good, the thoughts are good, the dialogue is about what we want to achieve, and so on, but start from somewhere. Close the NGO rams. Turn them off. What are you afraid of? For God's sake, you admit that they waste and abuse our money in Greece. European funds for Greece manage these. You said that a moment ago. Mr. Loverdos - Mr. Loverdos left - like many mistakes didn't come together? Wrong vouchers. You admitted it. It is politically brave to admit one's mistakes. However, as a lot of mistakes and mistakes are paid, the Greek people pay them. Because if the vouchers prevent and take them back, because there was a smell of scandal, here the mistake is great. It was nine months and you told us that it was wrong, that we "we had abolished the Ministry, we admit it". Listen a little. This mistake cost nine months in our country, too much money to Greek citizens, has solved no problems in illegal immigration, and you have come to power, saying that you are ready to deal with this problem. That's what you were telling us. 'This is our programme and we are ready to clear this problem'. And you tell us here today that it was wrong after nine months! Who's gonna pay for this mistake? Who's gonna pay for this mistake? You admitted it was wrong, wrong. What should we do with the mistake? Because there's a lot of mistakes coming together. And because at some point I went to tear up what I hear as if we were talking to another House and not to the Greek Parliament about how we will save Greece and the Greeks to bend over their problems, I will show you and then submit to the Practical Images of what these children are doing in our country. Illustrations of destruction from our islands, desecrated temples, dust and shrubs and pieces. Here's everything. I'll testify to the Minutes, get them to see them though. They're colored images, see what these people do to our islands. I'm not talking about the rest our fields are stealing, slaughtering our animals, breaking in homes, etc. Let it go. Here, Mr. Levane, see them later before you go up, because I see you take note of them. But look at them, I'm not testifying for free. I want you to see them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned images, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will go ahead because I really have to run, we have a lot, we have tabled the amendment. Let me go to Mrs Keramea's amendment. The Greek Solution can never put its signature on this amendment, with cams in primary or high schools for students to learn. We say no to Mrs Keramea's amendment, because the platform - it is a private platform that is hosted to set up this whole project - has asked for much information to be registered anyway. I spoke outside with a lot of technicians who are computer experts and there's no way you can protect your personal data. I can do a lesson at that time, be a friend of mine next door, record a picture and do whatever he wants. You're not protecting yourself with anything. You're also talking about epidemics, you're not talking about pandemics. It's an epidemic. It's a seasonal flu. I don't like that, and of course we're against it. I go quickly to a pleasant news, to say something pleasant, Mr President. The Council of State today took a decision that church and morning prayer in kindergartens and primary schools are legal. Here's a good news, because what reminds us of Christianity and Greece is being abolished in Greece. So the Council of State came out today and said it is legal and it is necessary, as he said, because it is the constitutional purpose of developing the religious conscience of the Greeks. It's Article 16(2) of the Constitution. Thank God there's such news! Mr Levane, I have heard you say earlier that some of the proposals of the Greek Solution may also be practicable, some may have adopted them. We know from the standpoint of opposition we have with the proposals that much of what we have said has been done. We are satisfied with this, that is our applause, the good news of the world, and that our logic is in Parliament. We said, guys, but not like that, that kind of copying. Today Mr Mitsotakis went to a farm for the primary sector and made a special show there for the primary sector, which we have been calling for a long time. Primary sector of the fourth and fifth generations, we are going to support our farmers, fish farming, farmers. Finally, you're getting ahead of us, too. Mr President, thank you very much for your time. I wanted to say more, but unfortunately I can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u279	Now Mr. Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. "God, my mouth is in prison." It is a greater and deeper need for me, Mr President, to refer to me and pay tribute to the memory of Dimitris Kremastinos, and I will therefore not deal with any unpopular things that have been heard just now. Dimitris Kremastinos is a personality that I think we're going to mention for many years. I am older, I wish that younger people in the political life of the country will take a skate from a man who has had a general acceptance and recognition on the political and personal level with his responsibility and honesty, the absence of any prejudice, but at the same time also the stability and rigour of his or her positions and behaviour. Demetris Kremastinos taught us. Sometimes we were able and found the opportunity to manifest it to him, sometimes we simply got a joyful presence. We owe him a lot. For centuries his memory will always be a light beacon and beacon not low tone, high intrusivity in this mild style with which he was expressed. To maximize his intrusivity was exactly the difference that makes the great cries to be nothing and wise words to be a great force to address. I shall say a few words about the bill and about the proposal of the New Democracy, the Government today. Mr Metarakis has described us - Mr Koumoutsakos mentioned other issues, if I find time to say for them too, they are important - either the fifth or sixth or possibly the tenth version of the New Democracy's government policy on immigration - refugee. Every time the New Democracy Minister for Refugees comes in - and he is accompanied by the MPs - with a great deal of confidence, with a technique that I do not want to describe, but as if everything that has happened has not happened and we are told that there is determination, plan, there are solutions, there is an understanding of the data!- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, the critical phase that has been particularly acute and maximised by the flows of migrants and refugees in Greece, that is, since 2015, has not begun in 2015, started in 2014. It's not right at all, it's misleading the evidence Mr. Athanasios mentioned before. The second half of 2014 began step by step, day - day, month - month to raise the rate, because the Kobani fell. Two million Syrians and others who expected there to be a hope to return lost hope. And at the same time as it was for human resources, a high-skilled percentage, doctors, lawyers, engineers, mathematicians, physicists and many others, Merkel sent the message that five hundred, six hundred, eight hundred thousand are welcome. Europe was talking about solidarity with refugees and Greece responded, and the Greek society responded and the SYRIZA government responded and did not pass a single one in the eight hundred, nine hundred thousands who passed without being recorded either in the automatic system at EURODAC or in the ring, in a very systematic way in difficult circumstances, extreme conditions and with a government that was not really experienced in it. Why? Because the refugee, which is so difficult and so contradictory and so dynamic in its evolution at any time and every day is different, wants a tool - it wants a lot, a lot, a lot, a plan and a knowledge of and respect for legitimacy - a tool that is irreplaceable, solidarity. If there is no understanding of the deep historical obligation to solidarity, because the refugee is coming from far away and goes far away, if there is not only the understanding of the legal, not only human and emotional, but also the functionality of the instrument of solidarity cannot any state, no government, no society, no society can handle and deal with this potential and deal with it properly, human, legally, but to some extent or even largely with the benefit of each country, not by taking advantage of the opportunities, but by integrating into this planning potential that is available and really there are. This is, therefore, missing from the New Democracy, which insists on the day of Dimitris Kremastinos' death, with the message he sends, still talking about'slash', about the open borders, about one, about the other and a whole lot of direct or indirect xenophobic messages. It can't be handled. It's a difficult matter. It's really a difficult matter. I am not going to criticise one mistake or another, but if the New Democracy wants, as long as it has the government responsibility, to take a step forward, let it choose to clash with xenophobia and show the virtues of the Greek soul, which have love and solidarity front, which can, in fact, be too effective for the harmonious management of the refugee - immigration, both for refugees and immigrants, and for the Greek people, because no one will lose in such direction. That is what you are falling short of too much legal, historically and you need to cover this very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Otherwise I was thinking of starting, but I heard Mr. Dritsa say that refugees and immigrants were coming and in 2014. Yes, sir. But the refugees. Yes, sir. And the numbers have nothing to do with them. Of the seventy - seven thousand who came in 2014, the thirty - two thousand, almost half of them, were Syrians. So, since I hear it many times, SYRIZA is trying to dismantle this heavy responsibility, that we have suddenly arrived in 2014 of the seventy thousand, and there has been a reason to come, in the five hundred thousand, six hundred thousand, in the seven hundred thousand, in the eight hundred thousand. A million people went through Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u283	Samaras had brought them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u284	As I tell you, Mr. Dritsa, the numbers. As I tell you. I've never been wrong in these matters. You know what my job is. So you are trying to dismiss responsibility, that is, this logic, which you have always said, open borders, in general invitations. You voted for all the laws, the invitations. Your rapporteur, too, said here, that 'your bill is governed by a philosophy of prevention and detention'. Of course, since you had abolished both the detention and the arrest. It was an invitation, too. They also knew that there is a beautiful country called Ellas, where anyone who comes "eats, drinks, is frightening", no one pushes him away, no one deportes him, no one arrests him for anything. I don't understand what you want, why you insist. What policy we want to follow, what we have already said in the election, is not something that should surprise someone. And finally, because you're worried they don't all get asylum. I do not understand why all this effort is being made to make everyone vulnerable, to stay here. From humanity? I am sorry, but he is not a humanist, who calls, invites a million people to the country, so that no one can save them, because you cannot save so much people when they arrive on boats and have three hundred dead in these years. Because you blamed us for Pharmacy. This is where we were. I was a parliamentary representative at the time. You blamed us and you were almost eating us, and you finally had three hundred and more dead and nobody talks. I don't understand that thing, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u285	Was it the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u286	Three hundred dead recorded, Mr. Janakopoulos. I had it deposited. You can easily find them. Don't be surprised and say, what do you want with the money, what do you want with the workers? For the benefit of the country. Listen, there's a text, which is the most secret text of the living memory. The finding of justice for Matty, where they say? That there was so much irrationality and chaos, which he wouldn't blow, we'd have the same number of dead. So, since you know well that when we rule, rule, do some things, put everything in the service of the country and there are issues that we can accept without discussing them. It doesn't make sense to tell me that I'm going to take, I know, the Ministry of Refugees, while the NGOs were giving them advice, apparently, you're gonna be here, you're gonna take the money, you're gonna take these tens of them, and you had them on the beaches of Lesvos at night parties and get up from the party nice and take the boats, let's say. And they didn't do the job for the country, they did the job for the NGO. Don't worry, what you said is over, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u287	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u288	Also, with regard to this matter that you keep laying down geostrategic reasons, the reasons for it were geostrategic. Of course, geostrategic were the reasons, but it was also in 2011 when the war started and you forgot it now on the anniversary that you were very humanists, and in 2012 and 2013 and 2014. And then geopolitical were the reasons. What changed from 2012, 2013 and 2014 to 2015? I inform you, because you tend to transfer events in 2012 and 2013 in 2015, to justify what happened, that the most murderous years of this terrible war, which we have all forgotten because of the coronary, in March that closed nine years, were in 2013 and 2014. The jihadists had decapitated everyone by June 2013. But you come with your propaganda - because it tells you where to remember now when the Homs bombing took place - and you put it in 2015. No, it happened in 2013, as did Aleppo and Kobani. All major battles in Syria, which justified the flow of refugees, took place before 2015. On the contrary, in 2015 the jihadists were overwhelmed by allied air bombings. So, then, you need to come here sometime and tell us what changed in 2015 and a million people came here. And we do not want you to tell us what is not true, that is, that the war has changed. The war data didn't change, it got better, and yet, you came here and told us that. Now I'm gonna give you a parentheses. Every time you're looking to find something. Now, with the coroner, what do you think? To show you're doing it systematically, what do you say? Greece was lucky, says Mr. Tsipras, because it was notified in time by Italy. Italy didn't even warn us about it, would it? Italy didn't even notify herself. Italy was carnivaling, fashion shows and football while it was dead and you're telling us that it called us? We closed schools on 27 February and Italy on 1 March reopened and was forced to close. Did the Inglesia Spain also notify us? Because we may now hear that from SYRIZA, we have also been notified by Inglesias, who organized nineteen rallys for the "Woman Day" and all went and got stuck. His wife, Sanchez's wife, the Deputy Prime Minister. There's nothing left, everyone's stuck. So, all the population's stuck, who took part in this. Did Inglesia give us a call, too? Look, especially for Inglesias, I'll tell you that I'll submit a document. It's the Inglesia deportations. At the moment, Spain is deporting hundreds of Tunisians from Melilla and is making a lot of fuss. But these are gonna be good deportations, I imagine, because Comrade Inglesia does it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President, with your permission. I want to finish this. Take a look around you, who have dealt with and how the coronary problem was dealt with. Where there were the governments you admire, some green red alliances, some social communists like Spain, something Latin American tyrants and dictators, have thousands of dead. Unless you tell us that we also need to take an example from Ecuador, where the bodies cannot get together from the streets, wherever and where when Lenin Moreno was elected, SYRIZA - because his name is and Lenin - congratulated him for his great, undeniable victory, which was undeniable. It's "win" in her quotes. So when Lenin Moreno was elected and you congratulated him, you said you would build socialism together. So tell us now. Are you admiring the Ecuadorian model or admiring the Nicaragua model of Ortega? So here - and I am tabling the deportations of Iglesia - Podemos - we can look at who can help the country. If we're going to make a hurricanes all day and say he did it like this, and the other guy did it differently and not look at our own hump, we're never gonna make any difference. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I finally ask - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that SYRIZA stops distorting events and transferring events of other years to other years, so that he can serve his propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u289	Be well. Thank you, too. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor now, from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law which this House is discussing today cannot be considered differently - and I cannot necessarily consider it differently - rather than as an old-fashioned logic, the lack of a New Democracy policy in relation to immigration. I say this because it comes after the repetition and re-recommendation of the relevant Ministry. When you see such political practice, what else can you expect from the government beyond the relic I am referring to? The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum - as it is said - is a polypathic ministry. It has so far failed to operate effectively, despite all the proclamations that are being made about the opposite. He comes today and presents with an impressive study, I would say, on the eve of the Day, a bill providing, among other things, special credit for 'confidential national needs', on the grounds of 'protecting national interests'. It does not specify, of course, what the need for the national interest is for the object and responsibilities of the Ministry, but it does ensure that there is no trace. Expenditure and documents will be checked, as mentioned and before destroying them, by a three-member committee appointed by the Minister and composed of the Secretary-General of Migration Policy, acting as deputy to the Secretary-General of the Reception Asylum and two Heads of Administrations appointed by the Minister. So, what is this ministry he appoints? Is this something between secret service, technical service, body of unarmed border guards? I don't know, but we need to determine what it is. I say that because the writing itself mentions it. In fact, yesterday the Deputy Minister gave us an understanding and stressed that we did not understand that things changed after the events of Evros. So, what did the Minister tell us? He told us that in every crisis with national features - because that was the crisis of Evros - we, the opposition, should not speak and the government will appoint poster and give money wherever and where it wants. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, provides for twenty-seven posting of posted officials. New posts! Here I will ask, are these twenty-seven posts set out in the establishment plan in advance that they are obsolete or are they in addition to the transponders mentioned in the establishment plan? And while, of course, the positions of the retired, when the time comes to describe the qualifications required, there is a generalology there. I don't think anyone will deny that there is generics. What's he talking about? That the conditions laid down by Law 4622/2019 apply to the final state. What should we remember and who should remember, that this famous law on the final state, the so-called reform of the Mitsotakis government, abolished the requirement that an EHS degree should be appointed to be appointed as a posteriori, and that it should now have a high school or ex-children's graduation certificate - in our time of six-year-old high school. Is that true, or is it not the policy of the Mitsotakis Reformer? It is the policy of the New Democracy government, which, as the Prime Minister wants and is being taken over, is the reformer. But one question arises: does Mr Metatakis not build a state with client order? Is that in the knowledge of the Prime Minister or not? It's in the knowledge of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister therefore consents to building a client state. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have also had a posteriori in the previous government, and we have said so. There is no way, we had discussed it that the posters had indeed increased on SYRIZA. However, under the rule of Mitsotakis, massively reversed are placed in positions of supervisors. Private people are invited, with only the qualification of the high-school service, to exercise public authority, to handle public money, without being accountable anywhere, only to the relevant Minister who hired them through opaque and party-affected procedures. Ensuring impartiality by the civil servants is the cornerstone of the democratic culture. That's unsurpassed and it's a given one. That is why both the theory and the case-law of the Council of State for us legal persons stipulate that the choice and appointment of civil servants should be governed by the principle of sovereignty, a principle of constitutional legitimacy. That is how it refers to all texts. These principles have, moreover, been supported by reforms as well as by SAEP and DENMARK. And attention, I'm talking about the AAP without interviews in the New Democracy, I'm talking about the AAP as an AAP. These are, of course, the PASOK reforms. The appointment, but also the development in the hierarchy of the State, must take place in compliance with the principles of equality, transparency, the rule of law, the free access and career of every Greek citizen to public posts only on the basis of his personal value and training, namely his dignity. They are the principles that the Government of New Democracy appears to be systematically trampled over. It is the government - I will say - of Mr Mitsotakis who, instead of improving the system of selecting managers from a tank of all qualified candidates, abolished this tank by a law called 'final state'. I would remind you that it is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis who decided under Article 22 of Law No4647/2019 that the Director-General for Government Security of the Ministry of Digital Governance will be a postmanagement official chosen by the Minister himself. It is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis who, under Article 33 of Law 4662/2020 on civil protection, stated that the Secretary-General for Civil Protection would select a posted Director-General. In other words, the government of Mr Mitsotakis is the government of the 'transnationalisation' of public administration. This will remain in the story: 'Revoking' public administration! Is that the state? Is that the state designated by the constitutional authorities for equality, for civil servants and for what the case-law of the courts has been established and should we observe? Ladies and gentlemen, each ministry is what is defined by the FEK of its recommendation. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum has a very specific object that is very critical for the country. It doesn't have to extend to other people's responsibilities. It is not just a question of speeding up the examination of asylum requests, which must be done, but also of what will happen next. For the next time, you will allow me to say that the New Democracy Government has said nothing, except that they will not get any help and the recognised refugees. In your employment, Mr Minister, it is also about the integration of these people, these recognised refugees. It's your obligation. There was neither a word for education nor for the labour market nor for inclusion in general. This is all at the expense of society and your inertia is dangerous. This is not only about asylum, applicants and recognised refugees. You are outrageously silent and inactive in this matter, on the issues of legitimate immigrants living in our country and decades ago - and unfortunately for them - they are under your responsibility and you do nothing. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that there are tens of thousands of children, young people, like Greek citizens, from the pandemic, and the services involved in their issues are under-represented. But that's why there seems to be no interest in it. He stays in the void. In order to prevent you, Minister, a few days ago you established the extension of residence permits and the permanent residence card until 31/12-2020. You did very well. But, at the same time, Minister, for these population groups, did you also see any allowance to be paid to those benefits that should be entitled? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, Conservative Europe has unfortunately failed to create the conditions for social development and third countries that would prevent both poverty and the security deficit and the armed conflicts that have led to the phenomena that we see and regret. The migration issue and the people who are hiding behind numbers of this phenomenon should not be the subject of micro-party exploitation, but the starting point of national understanding to demand changes in immigration policy at European level. We must deal with immigration without fear and without ideals and obsessions of the past. As a modern European country, we are constantly inclined to harmonise our immigration policy with the new needs and requirements that life itself creates, reality itself with respect for human life, equality and democracy. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, too. We'll be interrupting now for 15 minutes and we'll start soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my deep grief at the death of Dimitris Kremastinos, a great scientist, a great politician, a honest, honest, mild, mild and very kind man. I express my warmest condolences to his relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I return to the seats of the House and to the Step, after the compulsory absence, due to the measures and the pandemic of the coronary, not only with personal satisfaction, but also with optimism. For this time, thanks to the reflexes of the government and the impeccable response of the citizens, we have managed to win the first battle. Most importantly, we have won it thanks to the self-sacrificing and devotion of the people of the first line, of health personnel and of the security bodies throughout the country. For this unselfish offer, I want from the Step of the House to congratulate them and thank them from the heart. The government has managed to respond effectively to the most difficult circumstances and to safeguard public health. Now that we are gradually returning to everyday life, it is time for the Greek Parliament to legislate on the future of tens of thousands of people who have fled to our country and the future of the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who suffer the consequences of immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, no one disputes the fact that refugees and immigrants come to Greece because for various reasons in their countries they cannot live. They're looking for a better luck. But instead, they were found stacking by thousands, because the Greek state was unable to process asylum applications in reasonable time. Hundreds of thousands of people have waited for their future to be decided for a year. For so many applications we have received unresolved from the previous government, which either from ideological race or from ineffectiveness has allowed the applications and with people to be stacked by thousands. Upon the consolidation of the procedures and their assignment to the regional reception and identification services, the whole process shall be accelerated. Accelerates and improves the examination of asylum requests, whose time already under prior regulation has been reduced from one hundred to eighty three days in 2019 to just twenty-four. In March, seven thousand decisions were adopted. In April, they approached the sixteen thousand. The figures are also expected to increase, without any reductions in the substance of the examination, but only with key interventions to improve the process. For this reason, the institution of lawyers, asylum assistants, selected from a register to be established, is introduced and all procedures are digitised and simplified. The second phase, however, is the examination of requests for appeals against a rejection decision that was one year old, at the moment it is six months and will be limited to only four months. The adoption of decisions will be accelerated by the reconstruction of the Independent Appeals Authorities, the strengthening of their operation, and the definition of a maximum of cases that can be dealt with per month. At the same time, when there are final rejection decisions, structural changes are provided for in order to ensure legal order by detaining the rejected in pre-regulatory centres. In addition, for asylum-seekers, a time limit is provided for the provision of allowances to encourage them to be made livelihoods, such as all citizens. The NGO is still in order. It clears up the landscape so that only those who actually offer substantial work are left. And finally, we move on to the closed structures in the islands. It puts an end to the insecurity that has taken over the inhabitants. He's getting class in reception centers. Modern facilities are being created where refugees and immigrants will live in human conditions. At the same time, however, the new centres enable the state to look better at who needs to be deported, who can stay and who is allowed to leave for any destination he wants. Our aim by the end of 2020 is to have half the refugees and immigrants left on the islands from about 40 thousand present today. Ladies and gentlemen, the state's first priority is its citizens. For some time now, we owe the inhabitants of the islands as a state to make them our first priority. For some time now, we owe our critics the respect and dignity that they bring with it the sense of security and protection from the state. This sense of security, however, cannot be restored from day to day, nor by spasmist movements. The government methodically and systematically has drawn up an integrated plan to tackle the migration problem and gradually achieves one of its objectives. It set a target to reduce the flow and decreased in April this year by 97.26% compared to last year. And here I cannot mention the great success of Evros, where the Government with the help of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies and the residents has prevented the entry of tens of thousands of immigrants while at the same time cancelling Turkey's plans that tried to force migration to intimidate the West in order to get profits in the geopolitical game. In addition, the government has managed to decongested the islands by reducing from January to January by 8.86% the residents in reception centres. In fact, the transfers from the islands to the mainland in the first quarter of 2020 were almost twice as high as in 2019 and amounted to 11 thousand eight hundred twenty-five. It has succeeded in speeding up the adoption of asylum decisions. In April, there were 129.62% more decisions in relation to March, and 27.77% reductions in outstanding decisions to the appeal authority. All these successes converge in achieving the ultimate goal of decongestion of the islands, inspiring a sense of security for citizens and restoring confidence in the state. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece respects international law and the rights of those applying for asylum. It also has the ultimate obligation to defend and protect its borders, its national status and integrity. The government is finally changing the asylum system by sending a message of justice internally and abroad, but also a message of deterrence and determination to those who use illegal immigrants as a hybrid weapon to destabilise the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Mrs Pulu has the floor from SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft 'Improvement of Migration Legislation' law is a complex of regulations that further removes the possibility of satisfactory management of the great, global and permanent refugee crisis. The New Democracy, from the election far-right populism branch, fell on the ground of reality. It has to deal with a huge problem with principles of state responsibility and having an obligation to take account of international law based on humanity and rights. How can he do that, however, when he sees refugees and immigrants as a risk and treats them in the light of national security? The government can't, but it doesn't want to. It cannot be because, with its opposition populism, it underwent xenophobia, the fascist limited marginalities affecting the culture of the country, as Mr Kumucasko described yesterday, which is not currently in the Chamber. He humiliated cannibalism and the most primitive instincts. He humiliated them, strengthened them, mocked them, and plucked them. He formed a audience where he does not now have the political courage to address again and he will tell him that "We have said a few more words, but now passed - forgotten", because this audience will turn against her. The example of the Prespecies is characteristic. But does he want to think about it all over again? He hasn't proved it to us. With the exception of some rare rhetoric atrocities, I am trying to remember whether I have heard speeches in this Chamber now from the representatives of the government who have voted for humanism and solidarity. Mr Kumoucasos in his interesting speech yesterday said that he does not offset the left irresponsible populism of the SYRIZA with the extreme populism of the deep right, that it is two different things, but that it feeds each other. "You feed them and you," he said. He described with great clarity what is actually happening between the extreme right and the New Democracy at all levels, from the ideological arsenal, the Greek Christian Conservation, the nationalist idealism to the pedestrian vote. The extreme right-wing identity is the inseparable part of the dominant ideological account of the New Democracy, not all of New Democracy is understood, nor is it a tradition as created by Constantine Karamanlis. It is, however, a dominant shift in recent years. That's the first feature. That is why you have constantly tightened your own framework for a few months ago, restricting the rights of asylum seekers against international conventions and exposing the country internationally. International organisations, the European Commission, have been constantly working on your achievements in recent months. The second element is ruthless sloppyness and amateurism. The final state on all fronts proved to be an alias of the old client state. The recent law on the speculative depopulation of the environment was also a demonstration since it was a string of small and large interests, without rules, without a holistic design framework. On the subject we are debating today, you have abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy as an inappropriate luxury and again - you have founded after a few months without any planning. The Prime Minister was changing irresponsible - responsible like shirts, with no effect on management. You have discovered that flows towards our country and Europe are due to geopolitical causes and wars, but also to that you remember selectively. Your endless relics have created an uncontrolled situation on the islands. And then by applying your conception "Law and Class" you sent the MATs. With your scenarios for the construction of closed detention centers you split the islands and local communities in the mainland. That's where you are. The third element is your neo-Greek neoliberalism, a mixture of blind market bonding by strengthening the state-run private initiative. Really, the original floating net that would protect our sea borders, what happened? Did you pay the 500 thousand euros? Yeah? You don't? And why? You're violating public procurement principles. You legalize irregular assignments. Insert irrevocably posted to one another in posts which are provided by the Constitution only for civil servants. You legalize classified funds from the Minister will manage them exclusively. You create technical addresses that will build with decisions of poster public works. These are 'joints' with opaque contracts in otters such as the 4.5 million for Malakasa without a second offer, without any public interest rules. And since civil servants would refuse such procedures, you have put your own leaders, posters, with thick wages, who are not accountable for their actions but for the Minister. So why Malakasa, your retired, signed the contract two days before his appointment was posted in "DIAGY". Points and monsters, scandals you think won't be learned, after you legislate them in a residual parliament, with our fellow citizens turning their attention to the pandemic and the cover-up of your expensive media. What else are we gonna see? Because as you turn to the subject, you will discover other opportunities for business use, as is the case with the services you do on the occasion of the pandemic, I would say the many services. Minister, when you finally set up the Ministry and took up your duties, a SYRIZA delegation - Progressive Alliance visited you to declare our intention to assist where necessary. We did the same in the outbreak of the pandemic. Mr. Paul Paulakis immediately visited Minister Kikilia and not just once. We have all done the same in our regions in discussions with local communities. In particular, on the issue of refugee, we proposed that you follow the good hospitality practice that has been tested in twelve municipalities in our country with the "ESTIA" programme, which was carried out in excellent cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who succeeded in hosting refugees on humanitarian terms, but at the same time it also worked for the benefit of local communities. They have taken advantage of jobs, with a repetition of vacant apartments that have added income to our fellow citizens, by boosting the local market with European funds, by mobilising local societies and solidarity movements. A good example that was awarded works for fourth year in the Municipality of Levande, which I had the honour of serving as Mayor. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Kamines, as Mayor of Athenians, then, and the relevant Deputy Mayor of Leuteris Papayannakis, gave us great help and know-how, which in turn we transferred to other municipalities. Mr Papastergiou, Mayor of Trikkai, and now President of the CEDEFOP, but also many other mayors who were not hidden from all the political sites, took responsibility and were written in this proposal for the management of the problem, which is in line with the views of the bodies you called for in the consultation, but without any willingness to listen to them. Mr Ministers, you invited fellow citizens to offer real estate, hotels, accommodation in the mainland for the decongestion of the islands and responded to many small and medium-sized hoteliers who, due to the collapse of tourism in the pandemic, saw it as a way out. But then you left them north on the far right, as was the case recently in Pella. Unfortunately, Greece, the example of solidarity and humanity in Europe, is gradually becoming an example of avoiding Orban. But the values of solidarity and humanism are not just slogans. They are necessary values to tackle the problem. The forthcoming economic crisis after the pandemic and the frugality of the government in dealing with it with forward measures will cause enormous problems in Greek society, will jeopardise social cohesion. It would be a disastrous mistake if the government invested in social automation and did not turn to a different management of social conflicts, with respect for human rights. The balance between refugees in the mainland in the model of the 'ESTIA' programme is the best possible management of the problem. The CEDEFOP also agrees on this. The government must speak with local communities and convince it in real dialogue. Businesses and examples exist. But it needs political courage and other equalization planning and not closed detention centres. If the government takes the courage and attempts this planning, we'll be right next to it. Otherwise, you will be responsible for national tensions, but also for international convictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u296	Thank you for the time. Mr Dimitris Janakopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, before I begin, I feel obliged to express my grief for today's loss of Dimitris Kremastinos, a man who honoured his political space, the parliamentary institutions, the Greek state and the medical profession. I want to express my sincere and warmest condolences to the family, to friends, to his companions and to his relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also obliged, before entering into the substance of today's bill and of the immigration - refugee issue in general, to put forward two - three concerns, two - three thoughts, a few points, on what is happening these last two days. Let me start with a reminder. For some time now we have expressed as SYRIZA the assessment that the country has been in a dark period - and I am not talking about the economy - institutional and moral degeneration: statusal behaviours, political muddling, false news moving under the government's responsibility and an unprecedented arrogance by a party that is the main responsibility with PASOK for the country's bankruptcy. Unprecedented arrogance! I will give three examples of these degenerative phenomena from the last twenty-four hours. I'm not going back, but I'm going to talk about these last twenty-four hours. Firstly, I will say the derogating answer - the sad - of the Government representative in the question he has asked about the statement by Stavros Xarchaccus. It was an answer that he expressed criticism to the government that he had no policy and had no cultural programme. It was an answer that most clearly illustrated the state-of-the-art mentality, arrogance, but also the self-righteousness of the government, which has condemned thousands of civilization workers in absolute tolerance. A second example is the refusal of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy to sign the ministerial decision to transfer Vassilis Diikis to Korydallos prisons, despite the fact that there is a relevant decision of the Greven Prison Council. And one wonders where does the Secretary-General of Criminal Policy draw this incomprehensible state-of-the-art logic from? How does it itself have the possibility and power to refuse to switch when the prison council has taken this decision and given the permission in question? One wonders: If the Secretary-General sees the Greek administration and the Greek state as their bricks and feuds, what are the ministers really doing? The third example is the culmination of moral degeneration, phantomism and political vulnerability, which now concerns and touches Mr Mitsotakis himself. It came today with the revelation that at the same time as Mr Mitsotakis tried to gain political gain in the memory of her dead "Marfin", the Greek State was making an appeal to the Council of State's decision to compensate MARFIN's victims. It did, of course, speed up the statement that the appeal is withdrawn and that the Greek State will reach a compromise with the victims on compensation. However, this fact proves that there is no real interest in the victims. The only thing that's interesting is to draw up a political goodwill from a tragic event. But there's one more thing that is, perhaps, even worse. There's a deep ideological feasibility. There is one operation to identify popular movements and reactions to collective consciousness by acts of extreme violence, condemned entirely at the first moment, despite the fact that the same and the same lies are constantly repeated. And it is no accident that you choose to reopen the MARFIN folder. Let me remind you that the ministers who are renewing MARFIN's file today were the ministers who managed the dossier in 2010. The moment is directly related to the economic and social deadlocks caused by your policy, which your policy accumulates. Indeed, it is certain that precisely these deadlocks bearing the signature of the government and Mr Mitsotakis will create an explosive social situation in the coming months, a treaty that will crush the virtual reality of prosperity. Already, the Commission's screenings are talking about 10% recession, and you, with this incredible movement of political, social and ideological tombs, are trying in advance to identify the major social mobilisations that come, precisely with extreme cases of violence. I think that makes that twice as much worse and twice unethical the choice to take advantage of this very tragic case. I am going to refer to the refugee - immigration, but there it is even worse, because virtual reality has already been crushed under the burden of real events. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that your opposition tactics had relied on an extreme right - not all of them, but on many occasions also on many of the officials of the then opposition officer of the New Democracy - racist rhetoric, according to which the SYRIZA government was responsible for the rhetoric. We were re-enacting this account today by both Mr Athanasios and Mrs Vultesis, who did not say much or much about that the global refugee crisis that reached its peak in 2015 was due to the fact that Greece had a change of government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u298	You've got the lie in your pocket.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u299	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u300	You say that to hear only the extreme right-wing, extreme audience that you want to represent and to admire yourself....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u301	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u302	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u303	...and precisely highlights your political complacency, your political arrogance and your inability to understand the size and importance of the refugee crisis. Because if SYRIZA were to blame in 2015 for increased refugee flows, then you should explain why today are suddenly geopolitical reasons, based on the statement by Mr Kumucakou, which I can also endorse. Why are the reasons why the flows are increasing over eight months ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u304	Why Turkey...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u305	I'm sorry, are you going to fight now while Mr. Janakopoulos is talking? Please! You should ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u306	Sometimes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Janakopoulos, wait a minute. I ask you not to bother him while the speaker is at Stepah. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u308	Sometimes the narratives and false arguments will get answers to this House. You need to put up with it, Mrs. Vulture. What can we do? Today, then, the reasons are geopolitical suddenly, while in 2015 the peaking of the refugee crisis with the governance of SYRIZA was to do. In any case, I am opposed to it. Let us look at the results of the New Democracy policy in about ten months. At the moment they are trapped on the Greek islands of thirty - five to forty thousand people. The good scenario is thirty-five thousand, the bad scenario is forty thousand. How many on the five islands in July 2019 when you received authority? It was ten, three thousand. Who's responsible for this? And that's why SYRIZA is responsible? The reason why this has happened is quite clear and clear. You've made a choice that isn't just inhuman, it's also ineffective. You have decided to impoverish the refugee and migrant populations, sacrifice migrants, refugees and island societies, so that you can do the favour of extreme social forces in the country, because otherwise you would have to face a generalised political and ideological crisis within your own party, your own party, a crisis that you supplied and cultivated with the extreme right policy that you applied to refugee and immigration and your rhetoric in refugee and immigration for an entire five years. So you sacrifice the islands, sacrifice refugees, sacrifice immigrants to save your internal crisis, the right crisis. In essence, you are exporting the right-wing crisis to the islands. This is the political choice you have made. But that choice doesn't work. You live in a fantastic, fantastic right-wing universe, in a universe that is supposed, in your mind and in your imagination, the policy of impoverishment will also have a deterrent effect. But it's not like that. This policy has never worked, and this is evidenced by the increase in the flows you have had, despite the fact of the biopolitical deterrent choice. And instead of coming here recognizing your strategic, ideological and political mistake, you come to reproduce and invest years further in it political and ideological fantasy. You insist that you deepen your dead-end choices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me finish, Mr President. You mean, meanwhile, something absolutely and completely contradictory. On the one hand, you are now admitting that the EU Joint Declaration. - Turkey does not apply, on the other hand, to you say that you are not making inland transport, because if you do, then this will violate the EU Joint Declaration. - Turkey. So what's the matter with both of these? Or the joint declaration is not applicable, so inland transport can be made so that the islands can be dismantled or the EU Joint Declaration is in force. - Turkey. But that's where you have a problem. Do you know why? Because the EU Joint Declaration. - Turkey and the following agreements allow inland transport of vulnerable persons. But what do you do? Just to implement your initial political choice, which is the policy of impoverishment and caging, you are reducing the perimeter for who can be characterised as vulnerable. Well, your policy is absolutely ineffective, leading to lasting deadlocks. But you don't just stay there. Make the refugee crisis a chance. In addition to the Krone crisis, which you have turned it into an opportunity, as we had the opportunity to analyse last week, you are turning the refugee crisis into an opportunity for jobs and for the creation of a status - party army. Immigrants to the Legal Service of the Ministry of Migration Policy. What can you do to them? There is staff at the Legal Service and generally at the Ministry of Migration Policy that can cover all these posts. You do it to satisfy certain interests and to do specific service. I do not want to talk about violations of the Geneva Convention, because we will arrive until tomorrow morning. From there on. No care for unaccompanied minors. On the contrary, what you have done since November is to turn minors from 15 to eighteen years into adults and take them through the normal procedure, which is a direct violation of international law and a direct breach of the country's obligations. I'm closing down with the provision of classified funds. What can you do with classified funds? Are you going to tell us? You haven't given the slightest answer. Does the confidential funds serve designs, which are rerelated to the dismantling of public money? And why, if you want classified funds, do you not follow the policy and choice made by SYRIZA in relation to the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? To be briefed to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u309	He's been through the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u310	He's been there. Good. I'm waiting to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u311	But Mr. Kammenos said to the Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u312	He's in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u313	Then you put it in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u314	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, I would like to close with two comments on the amendment tabled by the Minister for Education. I do not understand why we had to wait two months for the Coronary Crisis to come two days before schools opened, the Minister to table an amendment here. First issue. What's been waiting so long? Does he want to overrule the vote of the House? Secondly, why has she not informed us of the substance of the ministerial decision, since she says she is ready and is due to be adopted on Monday? Thirdly, why has the opinion of the Privacy Authority not been submitted in Parliament's minutes? And what exactly does the amendment provide for in relation to the processing of metadata from modern and live education to be done? Is it also true what the Minister said on SKAI's television that televised will be done even with teachers' mobile phones? Do you understand what a window of illegal processing of personal data and problematic situations for the Greek public school, but also for the Greek school in general, is the Minister currently opening?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u317	Well, I conclude by saying: We, despite the fact that it is clear that we would vote against this bill, are not prepared to tolerate the choice made by the government and by the Bureau of Parliament not just in breach of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but without any grounds in the Rules of Procedure and to make roll-call votes, which unfortunately is an extreme derogation from parliamentary rules and finds no basis in the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u319	And, as SYRIZA President, Alexis Tsipras has said, we are not going to legitimise this parliamentary, para-parliamentary function that you have chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u320	Thank you. Mrs Veil has asked for the floor on staff. Tell us, Mrs. Vuldis, what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u321	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u322	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, I want the floor on personal grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u324	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, in his speech Mr Janakopoulos said not much or much that I lied. If for SYRIZA that's the usual thing and they don't bother, I'm very disturbed when they say I'm lying and false business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, it has asked for the floor on staff. Does he have the right? He has the right. It's invoking something that's important. He'll have the minute and then, if someone's insulting him, he'll take the floor. I would ask you very much to complete the procedure. Why are you doing this? Please, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u327	Well, Mr. President, listen. I'm talking about this one. I say that my colleague argued that I lied in my speech from the Stepma. And because I regard this as a major insult, I tell you again, to finally hear in this Chamber, that what I support - and is supported by the facts - is that the geopolitical reasons for which you spoke in 2015 had declined because allied bombings had taken place, the chemical attack took place in 2013, the massive exit from their country in 2013. And because Mr. Janakopoulos said: "Now what? I would like to say that the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has made a number of comments. Because now Turkey took the tool you gave it and sent...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u328	Mrs Vulture, that is what you have answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u329	Now yes, because Turkey has sent them here for geopolitical reasons. If you don't know those things, what should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u330	As far as the staff are concerned, Mrs. Vulture, the procedure has been completed. Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u331	Very briefly, Mr President, and I thank you for your understanding and your fellow Members. Because immigration is a highly complex and complex issue, but it also touches the thought, but also the hearts and feelings of the citizens, I think that we should not lose opportunities here, especially here in the Greek Parliament, to answer and deal with misunderstandings, misunderstandings and inaccuracies. That's why I'm asking for the floor. It was again heard by Mr Janakopoulos that there were geopolitical reasons and that he takes this as a justification for the unacceptable situation that was created in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u332	As self-critic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u333	How long will you want and will you insist that you refuse to understand the difference of these things? They are born, migratory waves and flows are created from geopolitical reasons. However, where these are directed and how a state manages these is about governments in which these waves and flows, which are created for geopolitical reasons, arrive. And that's where you got the base down. You had a disastrous policy. So let's get this over with. So what are you talking about? Geopolitical were the reasons for you, as proved to Evros. Because I do not believe that there is anyone in Greece, in the Greek, who after Evros, especially, has not been sure and does not understand and does not accept that the reasons for migration flows are geopolitical in their nature. You come and do this now. You say that, yes, they were geopolitical, we delivered you fifteen thousand and became forty without a word, without a criticism, without a condemnation of Turkey's policy. So, in July, there was no geopolitical reason? Did it only happen when you ruled? So what you have to say is that we are supposed to do, do it multiplely. While the debate has matured, the whole world, every Greek citizen understands, especially after Evros, that the source of the flows, the reasons are geopolitical, you come and say that "no, for July, August and September 2019, it is the government and not Turkey", for which you did not say "T" when you know that it is a specific orchestrated strategic policy to create, on the one hand, a problem in the country, on the other hand, to blackmail Turkey. At least that's what you can say? Can you condemn a policy that is directly directed against the country and Europe, so that you have an elementary consequence on what you are trying to say? That was to be said, because they must be heard and not let people live in misunderstandings, misunderstandings and inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Janakopoulos has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u335	Minister, I will tell you this. I don't know if you watched with due care what I said. I said that I endorse your position that the reasons for increasing the flow are indeed geopolitical. Why did I blame you? I have accused you of having chosen these flows and these populations for reasons relating to a biopolitical option supposedly prevented, caught in the islands and impoverished them. And why have you taken this choice? You have taken this option to do the gift of the ideological, social and political forces that you have cultivated. As far as Turkey is concerned, we have condemned Erdogan's practice from the first time, but at the same time we said that Erdogan's violations of international law cannot legalise choices on the part of the government for violations of international law. We are bound as a country. And this is our strategic and comparative advantage in the field of diplomatic relations by international law. This strategic doctrine of respect for international law changes with the choice of your own government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u337	That is the problem, because you cannot understand the country's placement in the geopolitical universe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u339	The caging of these populations on the islands is your work and your work, as is the Turkish-European Union agreement in 2016. You must be accustomed to your history. You decided on this agreement in 2016 and this agreement blocked the migration and refugee populations on the islands and no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u340	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Spilios Lebanese has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. I fear that today, SYRIZA's spokesman overrun his worst self and forced me to leave the speech I had considered. It makes me out of the climate that was all day in this Chamber. Different opinions may have been expressed, but they were in a mild and democratic climate. I am also afraid that Mr Koumoutsaskos, with his kindness and rationality, gave you an answer to another aspect of what you unfortunately used on this one. All your speech was make and misinformation. You accused Ms. Vultesis, accused other colleagues of the New Democracy and accused our Government and our sideline for xenophobic and racist mentality. You identified immigrants with communists, you and your colleagues spoke of "Macedonia". Once again, we will tell you that these positions are far from us. Every extreme position is condemned. We condemn and condemn any extreme behavior of any Greek citizen and, above all, heretic. You tried to say that you supposedly created a crisis with blue mayors. Crisis, dear colleague, was created in your party when your brother, unfortunately, took part in a bride protest in London. We have a very clear position. We do not want Greece to be an appealing pole of immigrants. We will grant asylum to those who deserve it. But everyone else will return to their countries of origin. You, instead of leaving the Chamber, come tell us which policy, in the end, you are supporting the essence. Tell us and answer to the majority rapporteur how many immigrants you want permanently in Greece, how many people our country can withstand in your opinion. But you have had the courage - and you do not even have the courage to listen to the answer - to abdicate the government for institutional and moral cannibalism, that it is going through false news in the Greek society, that it is being arrogantly unprecedented, that it degenerates democracy, that it has a vulgar leadership and so on. You dare not even have the courage to stay in the Chamber to get your answers, to fly such mud? So tell us what 'MARFIN' is: if we exclude Mr. Voutsi's applause, what is your party's position? Why does your communication not once have the word "killer" in it? Why are you trying to find things to say, my oath, about the employer and the problem of escape and you are not even condemning once - not once officially! - the killers of these people?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u342	You must be ashamed of yourself! You're having a dream.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u343	You.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor afterwards. You'll talk. Please. Don't do what they did to Mr. Janakopoulos. Don't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u345	But it's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u346	Democracy is a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u347	Why don't you condemn molotovs when you get up here and talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u348	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u349	Why do you ultimately see human life? Why are you getting away from democratic processes in this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u350	Instead of embarrassing yourself, you say things like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u351	Why are you lying when the Prime Minister himself...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Giannoulis, please very much! You're a talker after that. You will say your opinion and with respect everyone will listen to you. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u353	This is their opinion of the dialogue: voices and aberrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Lebanon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u355	Why, when the Prime Minister himself is placed and calls on Mr Tsipras to join the President of the Republic in honor of our wrongful fellow citizens, are you leaving? Why? Give us answers. Why does Mr Janakopoulos come and falsely say that it is not my case, supposedly, that the Prime Minister's decision on compensation? Give us answers instead of shouting. And if you want to go a little further, after you have lifted the tones and thus recycled into the mud today, tell us: What does your party say about Mr Marda's post a few hours ago? What does your party say about your minister? He says there about the coronary in Greece and about the deaths of the coronary in Greece and Europe and then comes and says the former Minister of SYRIZA: "In order to calculate the total cost in life or otherwise the effectiveness of the measures of the period, i.e. the government here, it would be appropriate to count the victims of the coronary and the victims, the suicides." In other words, Mardas predicts the suicides - and you are keeping him in your party - of the lockout crisis of the form chosen. Will you condemn him for calling and making smart guys, or will Janakopoulos come back to take orders from Mr. Tsipras, to condemn Mr. Marda or even the molotovs or Mr. Kritsis you still have in your party?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u357	Please, why are you doing this, Mr. Giannoulis? Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u358	You'll erase these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u360	That shit he said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u361	Then you'll tell them, you'll talk. Be patient for two minutes. It's unethical what you're doing, like they did this before Mr. Janakopoulos. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u362	Before leaving the Chamber, she also instructed the Minister of Education for her amendment. And what did he say now? Firstly, something that obviously does not work. Secondly, something that Mrs Keramea has already answered when she was in the Chamber. There is no record, only live broadcasting and all the choice is in line with European case law and after extensive consultation. What's the mud again? Why are you lying again? A few hours ago, when I said that Mr. Velopoulos also says good ideas, your representative rose up again and with a sardine smile and irony asked me: Which ones are New Democracy agreed with the Greek Solution? Mr. Hetas repeated that a moment ago. The reason why I made this comment - was his only intervention this morning, except for this amazing intervention he made a few minutes ago - is why he does not understand the concept of dialogue. Because she does not realize that a government or a party can openly have its ears and hear other ideas from other parties, even if she disagrees ideologically or politically. So I have to tell him that in spite of all that he has said and even though he raises tones and throws our conversation on slippery routes, even if he, even if SYRIZA had a good idea, we would adopt it, and many more ideas as the leader of the Greek Solution said before about the lifting of the embargo on Russia on certain agricultural products. It was also right to place it for the exploitation of confiscated military-type vehicles, which were bound by the customs authorities and now guard our borders in Evros. That's what she said about someone who said today, 'cause she might have said more. The issue is Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsipras, which right positions make in here that may be useful to Greek society. I want to give a few more answers to another style, another tone to the leaders of the parties who spoke before. Mrs Gennimatas tabled specific proposals on immigration, speaking of lack of politics by the Government of New Democracy, but proposals that are largely fixed positions in Greece, already expressed both the Prime Minister and the ministers present. The simultaneous presence of the leaders of the European Union's institutions in Evros was not public relations, colleagues of the Change Movement. With regard to the conservative circles he mentioned, I would remind you that in Evros today, there are now German and Austrian soldiers patrolling among other things, as well as at our maritime border, Frontex, both by boat and by participation of European citizens and European officials, is participating in and assisting the Greek port and the Hellenic Navy with practical results. Some seven hundred illegal immigrants and seventeen failed attempts to transport them within the last month were avoided. The Secretary-General of the JRC argued in a reversal of the reason that the government is acting with lame journalists, against the working class. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that our resignation - and the government, of course, but I am talking about our resignation - fully respects the institutional and national role of the Communist Party and, of course, we fully respect the Secretary-General, Mr Koutsoubas. We also respect the fight against workers everywhere, especially in countries such as Turkey, which often tramples human, labour and political rights. The New Democracy has no reason to indirectly operate - it never did - nor to use circus. And of course it doesn't follow anyone's suggestions. The Secretary-General of the JRC and culture, as did other colleagues, Mr Gregoriadis. Don't exaggerate, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation. You have the same sensitivity to artists as we do. Of course, we have the same sensitivity for artists as we have for other Greek citizens. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In short, I will say what this proposal is, the applied policy of the Ministry of Culture, and I will put it before you if Mr Grigoriadis and you want to read it. It is an integrated management strategy for people of culture, above - below 100 million, of which 60 million over - below - are related to horizontal support measures and another 40 million to development measures. If you want, you can see it later and talk about substance and if there are better proposals, the government will look at them. I'll leave everything else and close with one last. We were also accused of SYRIZA, but also of Mrs. Gennamata, SYRIZA, for a poster recruitment party, Mrs. Gennamata, that we are building a poster party. Nearly there was a Member of the Change Movement who rescinded us in class because we appoint posters. Because we all know that the PASOK or the evolution of PASOK is coming to blame any government for recruitment and for appointments and for ruptures, I think that does not fit in with an answer! I would like to say, however, that it is good not to judge the MPs and the opposition themselves. The Minister himself disagreed with this tactical record. He said he wants a ministry that works and that's why he needs to make some recruitments, which will end in December 2021. You, when you were ruling, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, had essentially identified the Ministry of Migration Policy with the non-governmental organisations. Of the EUR 1.9 billion you had to manage 83%, about 1.3 billion. With EUR 1.5 billion, you have given it to NGOs and international organisations. You, in fact, had built a NGO ministry with a law department and thirty-three posts in the technical department with only four employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u364	Yes, Mr President, I'm closing with this. Excuse me, but we had the vacation. Are you serious? When someone wants to make a serious policy and rebuild this ministry, which you were right to and you were working on, can this work without people, without human resources? The government's intention, expressed by the Ministers, is to have an effective national policy and administration, a strong ministry and strong ministers. That's what we do. You just plunder. In conclusion, I would like to say in this very context and suggest that the ministers have a suffocating control over the international organisations and the IMO and coordinate them a little better, because in my special homeland, in the Mesolongou - from where I come - the historical liberal citizens there have been hosting with solidarity and humanism for two years about three hundred refugees in one of the two hotels in the city. Recently IMO put the second hotel in the city - two only the city! - in what he's going to fund, he's going to rent to get people off the islands he wants. There should be better coordination, because we realise that our attempt to relieve the islands cannot come and reverse the interests of the cities of the rest of Greece, whether these are development issues, such as tourism or health issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Comrade, you will be overtaken by Mr. Janakopoulos now in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I apologise for overcoming, but I too have been lured from Mr Janakopoulos. With these thoughts I close and thank you very much for patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, do not exhaust your rigour on the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u368	Ladies and gentlemen, that's the way it is. Parliamentary Representatives represent the leadership of our parties sometimes! Mr Kegeroglu, parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill giving the opportunity to discuss all the matter. The representative of the traditional customer perception of policy management, which is not the representative of the New Democracy, reminded us today of his position, of course, after the provisions contained in the bill, that what the Greeks thought, that the traditional right has changed, that more than it is modernistic, that he has embraced not only the rules of the CSCE, but also transparency and merit, was an illusion. Mr Lebanese confirmed this to us a moment ago, which, instead of keeping a low-minded attitude with the arguments put forward by other colleagues from New Democracy, is that they are exceptional situations - what should we do? - he attacked us to tell us that what they promised in the election, judging and condemning the SYRIZA with us for the post-calls and said end of all, and their adoption with this bill is a consequence of election reasons and is not a return to old-fashioned beliefs, in customer relations. Two hundred and ninety-six postmasters, except for the central agency, Mr. Lebanon! We have a bill where your confrontation with SYRIZA and immigration policy issues and management issues are truly virtual, because you are fully on the sidelines. You continue the way they have handled the administration and the issue of the award of public contracts. Article 96 of the SYRIZA Act of 2016, which established the positions of governors, etc., which established exceptional and exceptional procedures, is the one that continues with Article 56 and is the country's longest immigration policy. What? The bad model of public affairs management. It is Article 11 of Law No.4375/2016 that, when anticipated the staff of the Reception Centres with governors, etc., the New Democracy not only denounced, but also requested a roll-call vote against this article. Where is this New Democracy today? Today it comes up and says: "Bay, it is good to say the article adopted by SYRIZA, I am expanding it, I am increasing the monthly of the governors, I also put sub-commanders, I am putting five advisors to everyone, and I am making them three hundred in order to move things forward." The arguments and appeals of urgency up to one point have a basis for standing. You cannot be a government ten months, you have changed policy on whether you want a ministry or not, a national coordinator, a co-legislative ministries, a deputy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, you re-establish the Ministry of Migration and you come today and instead of doing a self-criticism, instead of being modest and humility to say that because of extraordinary circumstances we still have this, you want to go out from above. Well, gentlemen, you were properly seized by the chairman of the Independent Public Procurement Authority in the committee, and so was the Citizens' Counselor. We cannot continue the derogating policy and constantly invoke the urgency and the urgency of the matter, because the permanent invocation of the emergency is a non-experimental one. It is not a matter of immigration, which is a global problem, due to wars, poverty, the environmental crisis, but also to pandemics such as the coronary and which have permanent characteristics, as are permanent causes, to say that it is something temporary. The great powers of the earth say that they have unloaded in Europe, which raises the burden of weight because of the good living level of the European social model, but also because it is the attraction of two continents, Africa and Asia, and this in turn is being transferred to Greece to a significant extent, because Europe has agreed through the heterobic agreement with Erdogan and Greece, unfortunately Greece to pay the bride. And that's what you should have targeted from day one. You said you'd raise a matter. You didn't put it. You honour the signature of Mr. Tsipras. Okay, if you think that following this policy is the consequence of the country right, then follow it in others. We have too many issues in relation to this bill. It's not just the character of the Ministry of Transmigrants. Your employees are taking you down through their positions in order to demonstrate the need for a permanent establishment plan that they need, instead of the diffuse provisions, as they say, typically violate the Constitution. It is not just a lack of transparency in the management of funds. The introduction only of the term 'confidential funds', the term 'confidential contracts' and the 'individuality of the derogation', are reasons why we are not simply to vote on it, but also to ask for a roll-call vote on these articles. Not only do you continue with the well-founded articles you have found, but you are expanding the scope of classified contracts and extending it in time until 2021. Now tell us now, really, the extension of 2021 laws concerning emergency situations, how exactly do you mean, that something that will happen in 2021 is an extraordinary event, and that is why I am now extending the validity of the provisions concerning emergency events? How exactly are these extraordinary events going to happen by 2021? And I would like to say a word about the health crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u370	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u371	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. It has to do with the structure thing. Do not deceive yourself. The risk did not evolve. What happened in Kranidi, which is an organised structure, was dealt with and was relatively easy. If anything like that happens to structures like Moria, it'll really work as a health bomb. Why don't you take group tests, at least for those who are transported? Today they are few, tomorrow they may be more transported. Group tests for all travellers. There is no other solution, Minister, to deal with things. We for the last time call on you to withdraw the disputed provisions, to abolish all the derogating provisions adopted by the previous government, which you voted against and you have denounced - when you were opposition - and today to say 'Yes, the rest I am putting for vote', so that we too can help. But with this in the bill, we are not voting for it. It's bad for the country, it's undermining the effort for good management of immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u372	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Thanasis Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u373	The government recommends restraint and discipline to workers, to the people. Of course these security measures must be taken, we agree. And, of course, the House has the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, of taking these measures and making redundancies. Have you been to the workplace? It's hell. Literally hell. There's no measure at all, but no one! And we don't give it to you in theory. Every day we make tours, as you know, in the Communist Party. And we start by calling on the workers to keep their distances and ask: Are they giving you masks? Oh, no. Are there disinfectants? Oh, no. No meter. Nowhere. And luck so far may have helped. I am referring to the workplace. The second is that you are asking for self-restraint from the world - we are in special circumstances - and the government is unrestrained, literally! We found a priest, burying a dozen. But we had agreed on this process of the health crisis. The bills of major importance, such as the previous one, that of the Ministry of the Environment, which affect the lives of all workers - are not as simple as the general issues - the refugee today, which is a serious bill and you bring it a fast track. Why? What's wrong with you? Why didn't you let it be a second debate on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u374	It's just here. Three, four meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u375	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Don't complain, Mr. Metarakis. I've heard you and Mr. Kumucaco too. You are taking this process'spray, wipe, you are done'. What's wrong with you? Was all this so urgent? With the top, of course, unacceptable - and you will pay, remember me - the bill on education. Well, in this crisis where students, parents, teachers lived and live a situation that is unprecedented, now did you really find yourself bringing this bill? Well, aren't you ashamed? Are you not counting on the agony that all families and, in particular, the people's families live in this crisis? And the aftermath of anesthesia is that there is also an article that increases the number of students in the halls. And the Ministry of Education is coming today and we are waiting to tell us what measures will be taken in detail - when schools open and open - to ensure the health of teachers, pupils and therefore parents and the population, because they are hundreds of thousands of students. Instead, it comes with an amendment that turns school into reality, into a big brother. Inadmissible! School life isn't a sirial or a reality to set up TVs and broadcasts. It opens dangerous roads to the educational process. It is not on any educational criteria, because the school is also a building of relationships between pupils and teachers. It has nothing to do with instruction from a distance, which is a different thing and of course violates personal data. I don't want to analyze them, they're familiar. Take it out now. Not tomorrow, now, tonight! We call on the Minister to come and withdraw the amendment. If he doesn't, we'll tell you that first, none of the teachers agree. Another way of expressing itself politically with the orders that exist. Secondly, what we, the educational bodies, say, decide not to implement it. Indiscipline, disobedience. You won't turn the teaching into a TV show. And it has huge consequences. Think about it again. The subject of MARFIN was raised. Mr President, you will allow me to speak more. And if you tell me about the time, I say it in advance, the ministers have spoken twice a year. When two ministers speak twice as long as they have spoken political leaders, it is logical that the parliamentary representative of each party should speak more. I told you before and with Mr. Kegeroglu, I made sense for you not to cut him off, to let him answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is that the answer? I'm talking about having some sense of humor. Second, Marfin. Listen, when we got we all set up together, we said no. Not that we're not going. We're going. But not all of them together. Firstly, we do not all have the same responsibilities. "Based" and what the Ministry of Labour did with the Ministry of Civil Protection. And when the chaos happened, the government was forced to get it back, to say it wouldn't be an appeal. Why do we call you hypocrites? Ten years, three governments, New Democracy, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, coming out on the tiles now. Five years and five more than before is ten with the other governments. Where are the physicists and morals? You can't find them? You don't know? You don't suspect anything? It was provocational. Steady. We can't say who. It worked catalysts, like volleyball, to say to the growing labour and popular movement. Didn't the bank have responsibilities that didn't have any escape exits? Where are her responsibilities? That is why we are calling for hypocrisy for all of you who have ruled. Let me just say one more thing about the education I've forgotten. Diamantopoulou brought it in August when the world was on vacation, Gavroglou on the Great Week, you on the coronary. Well done, you're practically ruthless. The student is overcoming the teacher and gets better than the teacher. Now for the bill and refugee, the sides were analysed by the Secretary-General of our Party, by Maria Konnaka, who spoke about the articles, etc. I will make a few general political points and reply. We consider it to be moving in a reactionary direction. And it is not going to face the refugee. Don't have any illusions he'll deal with it. Why won't he handle it? Because the refugee has causes. And if the causes don't stop, it will continue and even rise to the causes, ladies and gentlemen, that you have ruled and ruled, you are co-responsible. You can't act like Pontius Pilate and tell us here it's a geopolitical crisis. What kind of geopolitical crisis? Who's firing out the wars? NATO, the United States, the European Union. Yes or no? Aren't you all with them? And SYRIZA, in fact, came to get over you and said NATO was good today. Were you the ones involved in everything you were asked for? Didn't that bring a piece, the biggest, of the refugee crisis? So, what are you pretending to be now? I say this without questioning everyone's sensitivity. We are sincerely saying this directly, that there is a desire to solve a problem. But politics doesn't count that. They're counting the results of your own policy. Is there a decision that you didn't support SYRIZA's voice? Until the Syrian Embassy you kicked her out of this place where there could be a consultation. Why? Because it was demanded by the Europeans and the Americans. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] New Democracy has done the same all this time. Is there a political decision that you did not sign or sign a NATO military decision, a European Union that did not participate in those who requested it? Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya. You're shouting today. If I'm not mistaken, I don't know if it's true, the Libyan refugees have arrived in Crete. I don't know if that's true, Mr. Metarakis. Isn't that so? Maybe it was wrong. But if there's a wave out there too, where's a wave going? Secondly, you are committed because you have voted for Dublin II. Did you vote for it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u376	But now close, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u377	Let me go, Mr. President, the ministers have spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u378	No, I can't leave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u379	Excuse me, two ministers spoke twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u380	Now, excuse me, but your president has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u381	Now you're eating me the time. So I keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u382	But don't make it difficult for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u383	I will not close, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u384	If you don't hang up, I'll shut you down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u385	It's all right, turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u386	Now you can't. I'll close it for you. You don't have the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u387	No Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u388	I don't accept this blackmail, and it can't be done. Finish in a minute. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u389	You want to fight? Why did you turn off my microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u390	I don't want you to know that very well, but there must be same criteria. And if you participated and participated in the Conference of Presidents, we presiding for the presidents when we go beyond time, withholding etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u391	You don't accept from us, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u392	Close in two minutes, so I'll be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u393	Did you turn the microphone off to Mr. Kumucako for speaking in twice the year?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u394	I wasn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u395	I don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u396	I'm expressing myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u397	The Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u398	No, I don't care. Close, please, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u399	I'm done. You will hear them briefly in two minutes and you will take away the time you have eaten me with the remarks. Secondly, the Dublin Regulation. Did you all vote for it? All of you. And you blamed us for the graphics we said that it would condemn the country and be in prison. Yes or no? Are you asking for the Dublin Regulation to be repealed? None of you are asking for it. How? Theoretically? You don't do it in practice. Thirdly, a European Union-Turkey Agreement signed by SYRIZA and is proud, which has also given the ball, to say so. This agreement, beyond all else - I do not have time to analyse them - contains that Erdogan can play with the Germans and that the Germans and the European Union can play with Erdogan because they want to keep him in NATO, they want him to be cut off from Russia, for their own interests, anyway. In all the decisions taken, I saw no 'no' anywhere or any reaction all this time and you're trying to tell us that you're going to square the circle. It can't be, Mr. Ministers and gentlemen, the rest of us. It can't be solved. Why? Because the European Union's policy is determined. He took as many as he wanted, eight hundred thousand Germans and the rest who were even high-level and now he closes the cliff. And what's he doing at the same time? Because you follow this policy, no matter what you tell the people. And nobody doubts intentions, but the intentions don't matter. So what are you talking about? You do what the European Union does. Every directive is more reactionary and, in practice, - so as not to analyse it - you are finally loading this whole crisis on the backs of the Greek people and, of course, on the rights of refugees, which are getting worse and worse. And you say, "We are now giving a message, we are stricting and we are giving a message that Greece is not a willful destination". I don't mean to say it's ridiculous. Greece does not come because it is a lust destination. It's because they can't go from elsewhere. It's a forced passage. As for Mr. Hetas who said that they live in heaven, Maria, he arranged - Mrs. Konnaka, I say that they are from Lesvos - Mr. Hetas and the Greek Parliamentary Group to go to Moria's "fifteen". Send them there, shut them down to Moria's "five" that all the refugees spend in heaven. Live there, live rich, enjoy and do not be disciplined.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u400	We've been there many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u401	Finish it, Mr. Paphie. You've got both of those three minutes. You see, you've reached fourteen. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u402	Fourteen with lots of vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u403	And the President spoke to you twenty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u404	So I'm saying, they're finally paying her...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u405	It's a warm request, 'cause you're sad at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u406	We're patriots, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u407	I'm very sorry, especially you. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u408	I didn't feel sorry for you. If I have sadded you, protest at your party that took it to a meeting and we need to talk about all the articles in ten minutes, tell the ministers and others who speak double-time and not tell me we are well-known. Indeed, why has anyone so far not responded to the JRC's proposal to be sorted, controlled by the European Union and other organisations in Turkey? Why did you not support this and then leave the countries of destination? Now what do you think? Take a seat. When the ministers close, tell us if you accept this position. Will you even fight her? That's the first. So you want quick procedures to go elsewhere? Recruit up, not cut the rights, so I can cut as much as I can. Recruit up, staff up there, go ahead. You want decongestion? Transfer to human conditions. Do you want us to unlock the islands? You denounce the European Union - Turkey agreement, because that is the pretext, that the pretext is becoming a reality. You want them to leave countries of destination? We told you, indiscipline in Dublin. Extortion. All Europeans come to me here, make fine speeches, on the one hand, murder the world and, on the other, weep for the murdered, they call you 'bravo' and in practice entangle the world. Isn't that the reality? Am I saying anything insane? Isn't that the reality? As for NGOs, yourself in the mirror. When the NGOs came out, only the JRC reported them. We are critical of all of you and NGOs are not NGOs and do not do what you don't know. They're community organizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile. I call on Mr Athanasios Zebble to take a step in this direction. Until he comes to Stepma, in order to settle the space, I too would like to take advantage of this little interruption that exists and personally express my warmest condolences to the family of Dimitris Kremastinos, a brilliant scientist, wise and effective politician and an excellent and for many years of chosen colleague and friend. Here, Mr. Zebble, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic, with the consequent poverty on the planet, will certainly also strengthen population movements, showing once again that immigration is not a static phenomenon, but a dynamic issue that, as such, is not a definitive and final solution. Therefore, legislation, national or Union, should be adapted each time to the new data, in an effort to manage and mitigate its consequences. As far as we are concerned, we must point out that following the events of Evros there is a risk that Turkey will try to regain this particular war, by working again miserable people. And then no one will be able to claim that he did not know or that he did not prophesy. Our country should therefore be prepared for this, by strengthening public policies in the directions of the faster registration of foreigners, the active acceleration in the process of handling asylum applications, and the creation of closed controlled structures that ensure decent conditions of residence. So, today the government is being presented in person to the legislature, having recorded a complete success in keeping its borders with the surveillance measures at the edge of the Aegean, in order to suggest migratory provisions, which only serve a principle, that the effective protection of those who are actually entitled to asylum presupposes the existence of a strict, compact and fair legislative framework. The fact is that the protracted gap in asylum does not only stack demands, but also souls of impoverished people, people who are tortured in the Columbia and Moria. So what is important for the thirty-four thousand immigrants on the five islands under the joint declaration is the rapid examination of their appeals and then the massive return of economic migrants and the distribution of the others entitled to asylum in the inland for their social integration. And social inclusion, of course, does not mean recourse to the issue of benefits policy, but rather their absorption into low-skilled jobs. One characteristic is that with border closures there have been huge problems in the harvesting of this year's agricultural production when only two prefectures, Imathia and Pella, there have been needs for tens of thousands of seasonal workers who have so far been covered by foreigners. Today, during the debate in plenary, this piece of legislation has been unjustly criticised by contrasting arguments and indeed by completely different ideological startings, but usually, as a common denominator, populism and demagogy. On the one hand, opinions have been heard in the name of national identity that undermine the fear and insecurity of citizens, but on the other hand, voices that, in the name of humanism, even speak of conditions of general incarceration. However, I would suggest that SYRIZA would mitigate its parliamentary tone, because as a government not only did it not close the Amygdaleza, as they had promised on several occasions, but they also built other closed structures, such as PREKA in Kos. It is even important here to say about the explanatory statement, the tender decision on the construction of the project on 8 February 2017, when it said that overcompensation of irregular immigrants poses a serious threat to the internal security environment. What Mrs. Pulu said, but SYRIZA said so. It also says that the procedures for examining requests for international protection require a significant amount of time, which is used for new entrants and for avoiding their return to Turkey, and that the construction of detention structures will dissuade new migration flows. This was said by the Ministry of Citizen Protection on SYRIZA in 2017 with the auction of the ProKekas in Kos. He defended his views in relation to what the Minister and the Deputy Immigration Policy said. In order to avoid, of course, to address what the "PHMEMPERIC OF THE CONTACTS" criticisms, that is, the ten million projects directly entrusted, when it says for a year, you have announced this pre-regulatory centre and yet you are going through this ten million-dollar procedure. All of these ten million were, of course, one of the many hundred millions that were divided into the direct award procedure. In reality, therefore, we all realise that the new influx should be reduced and discouraged, regardless of whether some have failed to do so because of the mix of ideology and administrative insufficiency and nowadays the present government also wants to fail. Apart from its regulatory field, however, the operational provisions of this draft law attempt to organise the new Ministry of Migration. And here it is surprising that those who blamed the government for abolishing the Ministry are the same ones to blame for attempting to serve it and give it a decent status worthy of its mission. What, in other words, would you like to do when the Ministry of Defence would exercise its powers, when the Civilian Protection and when the Ministry of Labour? Because the Ministry with a legal and four persons in its technical service is not a Ministry, but neither is the most degraded and subordinated municipality in some corners of Greece. And the question is that without technical services, how could European funds be used? Or do you want our country to absorb just 28% of the resources available as in your day? Because that's the reality. Of the EUR 614 million coming from the European Union's regular budget and the Greek funds, you only made use of 169 million and left 72% unexploited. To say this differently, half a billion euro from European funds has remained unavailable. And it's important here to see what the General Secretariat of the First Reception, Odysseus Buddour, has said, not about scandals and shadows, but about the operation of the Ministry on your days. He says, "He has given all the responsibilities of the technical service to a personal consultant, a civil engineer of his political office and, indeed, has given her jurisdiction to have other consultants", that is, he has made a technical office parallel. I don't know if this parallel office you meant when you claimed that it had the Ministry of Technical Service. But the question is how will this gap be covered? With the institution proposed by the government, or through paradoxical authority and parallel service structures? In conclusion and as a consequence of this, I would like to say that this draft law is a proportionate and moderate piece of legislation that serves wisdom and responsibility for an issue that demagogy offers vaguely easy solutions. Unfortunately, the throat of populism also turns out to be worse than the scourge of the coron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u411	Thank you. I call on the New Democracy MP, George Kotonia, to step up for seven minutes. It is a warm request to all Members to keep track of the time, so that we can make the roll-call vote, as has been identified and informed by Parliamentary Groups to all Members at 22.30 hours or shortly before 23.00. Please don't get out of time. It would be a good thing if some colleagues could make it easier for us to speak from their standpoint. Likewise, the channel shows them either here or there. Mr. Cotreia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u412	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, in order for immigration legislation to be properly applied, it should be effective, ensure the fastest, efficient, nationally safe and law-abiding way, from the reception, identification, examination of asylum applications to the host countries, selection or return to the countries of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago I participated as mayor at the Board of Directors of the Central Association of Municipalities, when Mrs Christodoulopoulos, Minister of Government of SYRIZA, left us with very empirically speaking voices, when she told the mayors of the country that she did not know how many refugees were, where they were going and disappeared, when she unfortunately linked their presence to sunbathing in public spaces. Why do I mention this after all these years? I mention this because it is clear that that position of the Minister was indeed an honest position, but at the same time it was characteristic of the policy pursued by the then SYRIZA government, which certainly has nothing to do with our own policy, the policy of the New Democracy, which is responsible for advancing executives who care, who work and who, as it is now, improve and adapt legislation to the new conditions, so that it becomes even more effective. I mean Law 4636/2019, which came to cover the gaps of Law 4375/2016 and Law 4251/2014, and which is now improving, making the necessary adjustments to better serve the rights of asylum seekers, to protect the borders of the country more effectively and to ensure the security and protection of Greek citizens and to reduce the impact on Greek society from immigration. What are the requirements of such a law? First of all, the speed in recording and identifying: the speed in sorting, the speed in examining the request and in the process of awarding international protection, the speed in examining and handling objections. And, you know, a structured Greek government machine that ensures quick and legitimate procedures, of course it also gives a structured message abroad. Because it is good for everyone to know that in Greece refugees are treated with dignity. It is good to know that anyone who does not cooperate with the Greek authorities has consequences. It is necessary to know that Greece is a country of law with secure borders and that anyone entering it must follow and respect its laws. So, let's see, does this bill all work out? Indeed, the bill under discussion unites the process of full registration of newcomers, since it can also be handled by the Reception and Identification Service, provides for shortening the deadlines within which the applications are examined and the decision on asylum seekers, which were initially rejected, reduces bureaucratic burdens by introducing IT technologies, and speeds up the procedures, once it provides for the use of civil servants, by setting up working hours and targeting groups. Let me refer to the previous suggestion made by the SYRIZA spokesman, who said 'of course needs speeding up procedures, but this should be done, firstly, by means of specific recruitments, secondly, by improving bureaucratic procedures and thirdly, by using technological means', namely by using these tools included in the bill under discussion, which I mentioned just a minute ago. The draft law also prescribes the implied withdrawal of the application for international protection or the withdrawal of an action in the event of infringement, breach of the duty to cooperate with the public authorities, the applicant shall be ordered to return if the available evidence of examination of the application is not sufficient and it is also found unfounded that the applicant has infringed the obligation to cooperate with the national authorities or if it comes from a safe country, which means that it has entered our country for economic reasons. It is envisaged that the applicants will be detained at the pre-regulatory detention centre until their removal is completed or their application is finally accepted. The organisation and functioning of the appeal authority shall be amended. In conclusion, I cannot be tempted to comment on the fact that the speakers of the Representation raised a great deal of secret funds, since I did not hear any substantial objections on the substance of the provisions of the bill. I think that even this so-called strong argument about transparency in the future management of funds collapsed after the Minister's earlier statement that these funds, in accordance with the anticipated existing procedure, will be informed by the Greek Parliament. I conclude by saying that I am convinced that this bill eliminates the practical difficulties encountered in implementing Law 4639/2019 and creates the right environment for the effective, rapid, fair and nationally beneficial treatment of a problem that we will continue to have in front of us and which is the refugee - immigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, too, for keeping time and making it easier. My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, starting with me, I too would like to address my warmest condolences to the family and to the relatives of Dimitris Kremastinos, a man who left his seal in medical science, but who also sealed political developments, always with morality and therefore, his loss, I think, is also a loss for our political system. Secondly, I would like to make a special reference to 9 May which is due tomorrow, the 75th anniversary of the day of the anti-fascist victory of the people. I want to devote tomorrow's 75-year-olds, as Lesvius, to Mr. Yannis Karagorgiou from Skalochori and Antonis Alexandres from Skoutaros, both centuries-old people today, surviving from the Nazi concentration camps, fighters against fascism and Nazism. I would like to commit to these two of my compatriots that we continue to fight for historical memory and historical truth against historical revisionism, because we consider this battle to be a battle for the future of humanity. We are now coming to discuss another government bill on immigration in a few months' time. You have not booked a year in the government and you have been able to abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy, set it up again and change five to six times the opinion of the country's immigration and refugee policy. And while we realized that before the elections you had no idea what the problem was, and you were just stirring up, while we realized that you were unable to think of a plan even after the election, we haven't yet understood why you think what you're going to do now will work. First you said that there was no need for relocations from the islands in the mainland, because you would send them all to Turkey. On 1 July Mr Mitsotakis in Samos said: 'I will make two thousand returns a month'. Then you said you were going to relocate to the mainland and each region would get its fair share. Then, after your mayors, your district officers and your voters have been up for four years with lies, you said that you could not make decongestion and stay on the islands, but the structures will be closed. You have also invoked the European Union-Turkey agreement with which we of course had forty thousand relocations in the last eighteen months of our government. In other words, we've been decongested with two today Morias, where you've reached it. Just because the agreement provides for the transport of vulnerable persons, which, of course, you have not only had difficulty with the previous law, but you continue with ingenuity or backwardness that frightens you from targeting and denouncing the vulnerability certifications, so that you can get more and more asylum seekers into the islands of the eastern Aegean. Because in the end, the only plan you have and in which you come back every time is to leave them where they get off, if you could also lie about the beach, as you did for about a month with the hundred and twenty people you took from the northern beaches of Lesvos after a month. Of course you calculated with a dangerous pretext that for some reason the population of asylum seekers on the islands will stop growing, that they have just listened to the comico-tragic declarations of determination by Mr Mitsotakis or the threats of your MPs and officials, would change their minds and come back. Even in 2020, with the supposed sealing of supposedly open borders, we had nine and a half thousand arrivals in land and sea, almost all of them in just two and a half months, before the coronary crisis. You have understood - and you will understand in the next few months - how insulting and how insulting the Armed Forces and the Port Corps of the country are those who speak like 'country without clear vine' before you take over. You have, of course, calculated, and without the hotel owner, that is to say, the inhabitants of the islands, those who have lifted the burden of the refugee for the whole country, those who have also given humanity lessons that have brought up the authority of the country abroad, who have no desire to see their islands become penitentiary camps, only because the whole continental party, the New Democracy, do not want structures near their homes. Much less when some time these partymen are prefective nephews making their political feuds ruffles. It doesn't matter if Lesvos is sinking from refugees and immigrants, it doesn't matter whether women and children suffocate into miserable structures, muds and beside landfills, it doesn't matter if in the olive grove of Moria there is no longer an uncut olive tree left, because of the unprecedented overpopulation that you created in and out of the CYT, as long as we don't bother Mr. Bakoyannis and his party leaders. That's what we're talking about! And just because other policy means you don't know, from propaganda to redeemed channels and repression, at the end of February, send the MATs to beat us Lesbians, insulting our dignity and democratic tradition. And after being humiliated as a government and humiliated by the Greek Police, you have come to speak even of a new structure in the islands of Tokmaki, by mouth and by Mr. Athanasios, thinking you can sell mirrors to the natives. After all these intercurrent Vatterlos, you are now bringing a law that is trying to make it difficult for the asylum procedure to be applied to all grades and to increase the possibility of rejection. I don't even get the downgrading of the country's prestige by a government that admits that it doesn't care about international law. But what's going to work out what you're doing? Nothing but increasing the population living in the grey zone between asylum and expulsion. Because no plan for mass returns to those who reject their applications does not exist. After all, when you told us that you returned to all and all a hundred forty, when in five islands of the eastern Aegean, there are almost forty-five thousand asylum seekers. And how can there be massive returns without coordinated intervention by the European Union in Turkey? But these want a Greek government that makes a serious foreign policy, which even pushes with veto, so that the partners can be activated and exerted on the pressures that are needed. Mr. Mitsotakis has learned easily, where the ombudsmen set him up to move. Outside the country's borders, where he has to clash and claim, he has already accepted the role of the European penitentiary for impoverished prisoners. So your supposed plan is to increase the population under expulsion and to be trapped indefinitely on our islands. You may dream of closed structures and Guantánamo for thousands of people, but they did not tell you that our country's entire penitentiary system is hard to fit over ten thousand people right now. But Mr. Metarakis tells us that he will build a second penitentiary system within a few months to close in so many or more. And he will do it in Lesvos, Chios and Samos. I'd tell you, Mr. Mitarakis, to forget it right now. In your completely up-to-date pursuits we must also render the provocative methods for the ex-institutional staffing of the Ministry with a multitude of posters, the establishment of a legal service dependent on the Minister, the secondments and movements outside the framework of public mobility and, of course, the introduction of secret funds with an outrageous lack of accountability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] EPE once did so, and today you are doing what was also done in the period of authoritarian democracy, not selectively renewing the contracts of seventeen annoying officials of the Asylum Service, because they dared to voice a different voice on government policy and protagonist in the trade union struggle in this sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u415	Finish, Mr. Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u416	I shall conclude, Mr President. Excuse me. Responsibility for respecting national security and safeguarding is the Ministry of National Defence, at diplomatic level, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and at research and other sensitive procedures, the National Information Service. First of all, I would like the Prime Minister of the country to tell us whether he considers it inappropriate for the NSA to observe and safeguard national security in the refugee sector as well as in the Turkish secret services where we think there is a problem and so on. Secondly, the inappropriate Ministry of Immigration, which was suddenly abolished on 8 July, became a need for February and was re-established and is now suddenly becoming neural for national security. Really? We know very well that secret funds don't want to handle explosive problems. What will you do if arrivals increase in the summer on the islands? What if cases occur within structures or if the population of structures is affected by a second wave? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u417	Close, Mr. Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u418	I'm hanging up, I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u419	'I'm closing, I'm closing', but you're not closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u420	Receive a few days ago, after nearly fifty days of quarantine, from the High Commissioner for Testing in Moria, leaving people at the mercy of their fate and with the local population. That's the last sentence. Of course, there is everything present with your Government’s incentive to party service and unobstructed splitting public money. You are, however, preparing for a second round of authoritarian enforcement on the islands, and that is why you need opaque funding and as much resistance as possible from a public administration bound by legal procedures. Freedom of movement you want to go beyond the legality if you need to, because you just want to make our islands within the limits or out of legality, areas of permanent state of exception and with islanders making prisoners in tens of thousands of impoverished people. We won't let you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, I would like the floor, because there was a report, not that it was abusive, but that it did not do so properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u422	You have the floor for half a minute, until the Step is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, I said that I said that the hot spot should be done in Toccocchica. I did, and now I say it, but you did not say it all. Because I thought the space was inappropriate to become next to a residential area in Karawa. That's why I said it. So you had to say it to be right. But how can you do this when you published in the Mytilini newspaper that I came here with a roll-call vote and voted to ratify the legislative act and that I was in line with the party's line?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u424	No, I said you'd regrouped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u425	Of course I would vote, if it were a roll-call vote, because it was right, but that is different, because you were not here either. But you have created the impression in our country that there was a roll-call vote and so on. These are lies you've inherited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u426	Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me have a little report. Why do we ultimately have a problem with immigration, so that we can be precise with immigrants? Firstly, because many among us feel a kind of fear strange to the unknown and very different, unfortunately, even when myths accompany it. Secondly, because it is a real threat, particularly because some of them, without knowing how many and whom, do not share the cultural or religious values that are a coherent element of our societies. Thirdly, because it is estimated that their tolerated uncontrolled stay will make it difficult for the labour market already to find it difficult, it will throw the cuts away and allow a number of employers to violate basic protection laws for workers. Fourthly, in trying to move migrants, even when they do so without pursuing it for other purposes, they ultimately violate the laws of our country and of Europe, they violate the rules of free movement of people within the European Union and the Schengen area and ultimately create serious diplomatic and other problems, in particular, in Greece's relations with the other European states. Fifth, as obviously recently recorded on the Evros line, an undetermined number of immigrants become a tool to serve the secret services plans of the evil neighbour. But is Greece the place of destination of immigrants? Is it simpler to close our eyes when they pass through the Greek territory? That logic - if I say logical - was tested in 2015 with disastrous results. One of these, not least, was that that policy - let us call it 'the policy of the sunny Viktoria Square' - eventually aroused the animosity of the population towards immigrants. Once again, if we accept that our country is a safe embrace for those at risk of cruel persecution or living in their country, that is to say, for the only real refugees, then what we need is a policy on refugees and not, of course, a verbal immigration policy, supposedly. In 2015, Greece was in a bad position. The Europeans felt that we were responsible for the flood they experienced, but also for the unwise free movement of jihadists, which, fortunately, does not seem to have taken place. Even when Chancellor Merkel temporarily opened the doors, a decision that he paid politically, the problem for Greece became greater because it had already been opened, the new road to the caravans led by the soul slaves was inaugurated. But can we stop the flows of immigration? We can. The rapid, fair and humanitarian treatment of the real refugees, combined with strict border surveillance - land and sea - is the right answer to the most problems posed by migrant flows. From this point of view, the regulations of the draft law, Mr Minister, are beneficial and are in the right direction. The work of the Greek authorities is to stand out quickly and safely with the inalienable right to international, hence also Greek protection. What we deserve to discuss is whether and whether Greece wants to keep even a small number of refugees. The answer for a long time - and certainly with the election mandate - is 'No'. Did the people's will change to something? 'No', again, especially now, as we are faced with the epidemic crisis, are even more those who reject the policy of 'Laissez faire et laissez passer', which is, unfortunately, suggested by the SYRIZA. On the basis of the above, regulation of the bill which reaches the fastest process of recording, simplifying, examining, examining, prioritising our islands, in particular, technological safeguarding them, as well as the Register of Legal Rapporteurs for Asylum improve the position of people, safeguard human rights and thus, those arriving in our country, migrants and refugees, face procedures that are more transparent and more stringent than the actions of the administration and government. I would like to make an observation at the end and a link to the pandemic. The protection of society or it is for everyone or, ultimately, for anyone. You can't protect 98%, because unprotected won't stay 2%, but 100%. A failure in a vulnerable group, such as immigrants and refugees, can blow our amazing collective and individual effort into the air. That's why I'm closing up with some news you may have already learned. The Eurogroup has made it clear, even in the way Europeans do, that the funds will be available. Migration and Coronavirus expenditure on many points will be identified. I think that this is also a great step for which Greece has fought and has had to be careful in managing its own resources, being careful in dealing with the discussions it had with the European partners, so that we win a step - step and every step is stable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou, for helping us manage time. I call to Stepma the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the loss of Dimitris Kremastinos is grieving us all. A testament for everyone, I would say, is the huge work on health that he has left and his consequence on political perceptions. For the academic teacher, the politician, Minister Dimitris Kremastino speaks of his work, his activity and his path. For me, his trust and friendship are a particular honor. Warm condolences to his family. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is Europe's day. Seventy years have passed since the Schuman declaration, a precursor to the European Union. However, ladies and gentlemen, real solidarity between the European states is still a matter for us. Very recent evidence is the decision of the German Constitutional Court on the programme of quantitative relaxation and quantitative facilitation of the period 2015-2019. Germany's federal bodies, such as the Bundesbank, are now prohibited from participating in similar Union acts. Today, however, we see Europe going through the legal repository. However, a solution is not isolationism, as the peoples of Europe are associated with history, culture and culture. These are the elements that allow us to claim the unity of the European construction. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration and refugee is a profound humanitarian challenge. But we must make this clear: it is the refugee and immigration. There's another refugee and another immigrant. We must not confuse this. However, addressing this is a sensitive issue for every society. For me, it is a matter of twofold importance. On the one hand, it is the humanitarian dimension, respect for man and his rights. On the other hand, it is respect for local communities and the daily lives of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee - immigration - is a matter of major national importance. It requires a supra-party national line to prove first and foremost that it is a European issue, a European problem, so that a European solution is sought and required. Let us not forget that our borders are the borders of the European Union. Therefore, FRONTEX must be strengthened in every way and act as a front in dealing with illegal refugee and migration flows. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is inferior to the circumstances. And you, today, gentlemen of the government, continue on the same road, in a blurred landscape, like the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government. So you're doing a very simple management. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill essentially creates a ministry without institutional memory. It creates a Ministry, which will not be made up of public officials, but of posted officials. In other words, the public services will be doomed to fall apart from even the new minister. This is a political decision, which strengthens opacity, inexperience and, above all, removes institutional memory. So here, what do we see? There is an uncontinuation in the state. Secondly, the bill perpetuates opaque procedures, classified contracts, commissions, job coverage. Minister, national interest and photographic provisions are not going together. Thirdly, the bill introduces opaqueness. Confidential funds are available at the discretion of the Minister, without budgets, without any justification, i.e. practices contrary to the rule of law, which you have said in the run-up to the election. Fourthly, it consolidates "Mories", instead of providing sustainable solutions for the decongestion of the islands. In other words, let's go to closed controlled island structures. We wonder, however: Have you discussed with the local communities, which will raise the burden? Have you assured their consent? Let me give you an example. A few days ago there were intense reactions to the Messolong for a new structure to be arrived. Let me acknowledge that the Messolonghi has two hotels, one of them today hosts a refugee structure. In fact, by the way, I would say that the percentage of the municipality of the Holy City of Messology has also been covered. However, there is talk of using the second hotel unit as a refugee structure. So I ask you, is it reasonable to cover both hotel facilities from the hospitality of refugees? Ladies and gentlemen, I say this with respect and the right to asylum which no one disputes, because it is linked to human rights and of course with absolute respect. However, the state must provide sustainable solutions that are in line with the principle of human dignity, so also respect for local societies, citizens, as I have said. Minister, the Commissioner for Home Affairs of the European Union said that out of the 700 million euros to be given to our country, half will be given to the UNHCR and the International Organisation for Immigration to rent real estate and financial assistance to asylum seekers. Of the rest, 280m euros will be provided to the Greek Government for the construction of five new reception and identification centres on the islands. So tell us, Minister, Mr. Mitarakis, what's your plan? Give us number of posts per category per number of flows. Because here the figures given by the Ministry today are uncertain, because you sum up the figures for the pending asylum applications and appear to be more than ten thousand foreigners. How do you explain it? I'm waiting for your answer. Ladies and gentlemen, since the vote on Law 4636/2016, events in Evros, the islands and hospitality structures have shown that a plan is needed to deal with refugee immigration. However, the events testify to the fact that there was no plan for decongestion of the islands, because there was no cooperation with local bodies to build new closed structures. And as we tell you, you've properly worked on Evros, so here we're accuseing you of your crime to date on the island structures. No substantial cooperation has been established on the relocation, on the fair distribution of refugees between European countries, which should be your first concern and priority. In other words, there were no substantial and effective steps to ensure that the European Union's agreement with Turkey is properly functioning and to put an end to illegal and irregular immigration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Minister, and in the midst of pandemic some questions are asked about the overcrowded camps where human souls are stacked in miserable living conditions, without cleanliness and without the basic kinds of personal hygiene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u430	Finish, Mr. Constantopoulos. There's no time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u431	Finally, Minister, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that public contracts with the Ministry of Migration's Technical Service are subject to existing legislation and not to derogations, and I believe that you will be acceptable. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we voted against the bill, because there is no long-term and sustainable planning and even on such a crucial issue that needs dialogue and national understanding to put Europeans before their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u432	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u433	Listening to the respectable and dear friend...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u434	Don't go to a new paragraph. Hot request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u435	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u436	No, no! There are still ten other colleagues and we have notified that the roll-call vote will take place at 22.30 p.m. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u437	My dear colleague spoke of recruitment in New Democracy. Let me remind him of the eighty-five thousand stags from 2004-2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u438	Now don't go to 2004 and 2009. Finish! Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrios Kiridis has the floor for seven minutes, and he warmly asks that all of his time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my sincere condolences to the family of Dimitris Kremastinos, who honoured medical science, the academic community and politics, public life in our country over the past few years. I will continue with a second preliminary comment before entering into the essence of immigration, because by following the debate in the morning and now this afternoon and at night, I felt that I was in a reversed world, and I would especially like to speak a minute about it. Tomorrow is May 9 and the whole of Europe celebrates the Day of Europe, the 1950 Robert Souman Declaration, seventy years later. It is the fundamental declaration that created the united Europe, the greatest achievement of the European peoples post-war and one of the world's largest. I think we will agree, at least most, and I believe that anyway, these are the feelings of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people who remain pro-European. Greece has participated in this project since the 1950s with the late inaugural founder of our prolongation Constantine Karamanlis and, of course, became a member in 1981. We must not forget. Of course, we are celebrating all seventy-five years from the Allies' victory in the Second World War in Europe - and this is important - and we pay tribute to the Americans who liberated Europe from Nazism, the British and the great old Churchill, who have been decisively involved for a period of time with us Greeks against Nazism and, of course, with the great Soviet people and the army who paid the heaviest blood tax without doubt. However, World War II ended with a paradox. It began on 1 September 1939 to defend Poland's independence and ended in 1945 without this independence being restored. The independence of Poland and the other neighbouring former Eastern European peoples has been restored forty years later in the United Europe since the end of the Cold War. The two anniversarys of 1945 and 1950, in this sense, are complementary. Only in 1945 is not enough. It is the United Europe that really brings defeat, and that is my view and my side and my side and the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, regardless of what was heard here in the morning. In any case, it is not only the historical truth, but it is also the interest of the Greek people. Because, badly lies, in order to build this European home and in the area of immigration, we should not be insulting against the history of the rest of the European peoples. Twelve of these peoples in a total of twenty-six, the former Eastern European and, of course, a large part of the German people, feel that in 1945 it was not released, but was again enslaved until the fall of the 1989 Berlin Wall. And because I respect both the feelings of the Poles and the Czechs and the Slovaks and the Baltic countries and the Bulgarians and Romanians and the others with whom we coexist in this common European home, and if we want to coexist and move Europe together, we must show due respect and sensitivity to all of them. Today's debate on the immigration bill takes place in the light of the great success of Evros and the great success of ripping the gaps between Evros and the Aegean. Greece has demonstrated its borders and can guard them under proper leadership, and that is the important thing. One thing we underestimate in the debate is the geostrategic dimension of immigration, especially for Greece. They have not heard enough either in the committee debate or here today. Greece is neither Spain nor Italy. He has a very bad neighbour next door, Turkey, who works and uses immigration. Therefore, foolish flaws in this matter - one reason above - do not fit in. We have said this before - our Prime Minister has said so - that we are liberal and humanist, but we are not naive. And, of course, we are not hypocrites to represent the idealists and then under pressure from Europe to sign what they bring us, as happened in the autumn of 2015 with Alexis Tsipras. One more reason why the coronary pandemic may increase global inequalities, world poverty in the Third World and create new waves of migration and refugee flows towards Europe through Greece and therefore additional attention is needed. Because I like the language of truth, I would like to say two points which I find weak. One has to do with relegating just a few months after the first legalization. We must take care of that. We can't bring bills and bring back what we did in November. That is a matter. I understand that circumstances change, I understand that we need to see them in practice, but it's a matter. The second point is the issue of refunds, which is a weak point. With regard to returns, bad lies, we have vertically increased the number of asylum applications, zeroed the flows, we have achieved too much, but we must also insist on the issue of returns. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to close by congratulating the two honourable Members, Minister Mitaraki, and, above all, Vice-President - you will allow me to do so because it comes from my sector, the Northern Athens Sector - George, who have lifted a very great deal of weight and have been called upon to achieve something very important, realism with liberalism, something very important for our prolongation, for Greece and for its position in Europe, but also for Europe itself, that is, if there can be an average road between the utopian, naive, idealistic and ideological - put whatever you want - and the extremist ones who do not want, reject everything and want a Europe that is unshakable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u440	All right, all right, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u441	At this point I am very pleased to note something that has not been said - and I say this to the House - as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, representing the Greek Parliament. I note the very recent report by the reporter of the Council of Europe Parliament's Parliamentary Assembly on Human Rights on the way in which Greece has over the past few months been protecting vulnerable islands from inland and unaccompanied children. It's one more win. We are protecting the borders, but we are protecting human dignity too. Congratulations to the two who are called upon to bear this very heavy burden. We keep going like this. And, of course, I am enthusiastic about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u442	Thank you. I invite my colleague to Stepma by SYRIZA Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis. I would even like to say to him many years, because this evening it is celebrating after the summer bell is ringing. He's normally celebrating tomorrow. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor, but also for wishing. First of all, I would like to start with the embolisms. I do not know if it has been understood exactly what an amendment Mrs Keramea has put forward. Article 1 states that it is possible to derogate from any other provision providing modern distance learning by means of means of technology in general to primary and secondary pupils. This is in a legislative text. What technology means? Cameras? Mobiles? Teleconferencing mechanisms? I don't keep it up. Article 2 states that registration and storage shall not be permitted in the course of the procedure. The metadata that may be produced in the same and above context shall be retained for a specified period of time. Metadata are available when data are available. Where's the data from? Where are they stored? How are safety rules complied with? Here, in fact, we would like on Monday - this is an urgent matter - to submit all the correspondence and consultation that the Minister said had with the Privacy Authority. First of all, it makes us a great impression that he is not consulting teachers, teachers or parents, because here we are even talking about providing images in primary and high schools. He doesn't have any consultation with these spaces. He has a consultation with an independent authority. What kind of consultation is this? The independent authority shall deliver an opinion on a question. We need to see the question raised, see what he answered, with what security rules he referred to. And it is not so innocent, as the Parliamentary spokesman has suggested a little earlier, because I imagine that here we are not just dealing with an example of poor legislature. We have an example of legislation that goes beyond and some level of seriousness. Let it be! I'm going through the bill. It is advisable that the amendment should not be accepted. I do not know whether you have any say either with the competent ministers or the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. I think this amendment - and the representative of the JRC said so too - needs to be withdrawn now. Otherwise, it will create major issues which we will find from a week ago, because in the meantime it brings this amendment two days before the schools open up on 11 May. So long, for two months, fish silence! In any case, let us look at the issues of the Ministry of Immigration. The first twenty-nine articles constitute amendments to Law 4636/2019, which was adopted on 1 November. Mr Gerapitris once has to come here to tell us exactly what he meant by "final state", "good legislation", because it is not possible after four, five months to change the whole legislative framework that he created a few days ago. We don't know, did we? Did he have any failures? Has there been any evaluation of this whole matter? Secondly, a ‘Ministry of Exemption’ is set up outside administrative and constitutional law: an exemption from the single public sector wage scheme, an exemption from the single mobility scheme, an exemption from public procurement law, posted at management level, managers of poster in breach of all the evaluation and selection systems of the heads of public administration. This is unconstitutional, of course, which will disappear. We must say that now, because you will find it in front of you. The big question is, because we are hearing about post-mortem and party army, and so on, is that the problem is not that post-mortems form a party army. The problem is that it operates outside the legal framework of public administration, outside the constitutional framework, outside Article 103, outside the law, outside public service law, outside the hierarchy, and so on. Other things have been said. As far as the addresses are concerned, Mr. Ministers, what organization does the Ministry have? Really, what kind of organization does the ministry have? Will you post him digitally? A few days ago, with an amendment to the evening's agenda here, you set up a technical address, and the next week, that is, today, you bring in a full bill, where eight posteris are planned. But I'm over that, we said that. Today, in this bill you have a legal address - in comparison with the Legal Council of the State which provides all the legal support to all ministries and to all the public administration - the special Coordination and Program Management Agency of the Asylum Fund at management level, the autonomous Department of International and European Relations, the Reception and Identification Service with the twenty-eight structures that were legally renamed and now introduced into the structure of the Ministry, but with posted directors again! Why do you not follow the lawful and permanent practice of all ministries, that is, the presidential decree, if you like? Why do you define it under law? I'll answer you. Because if you did so by a presidential decree, you would have serious problems of unconstitutionality, as you will now have. Totally good faith, because I also know the counter-problems, because the parliamentary representative said if there are any proposals, they should be heard. First of all, this derogating Ministry of Private Law is not a Ministry. It is not a Ministry of Law of administrative order in the Greek system. What could you do? I'll tell you two ideas and if you're well-off, follow them: First, go to ASP on Monday morning and make a specific notice in cooperation with ASP with specific specialities exactly where you want. Chios? Chios. Samo? Samo. Where is there a shortage? There. For example, you say that with mobility you have no employees. Sure. Because the conditions are tough and why mobility is a supportive system in public administration. It was not the public administration staffing system. So, how are you going to build a Ministry of Transmigrants? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u444	How many weeks do you anticipate from the AAP?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u445	You will ask for his cooperation for a very short time. Second, let me give you an idea about the managers. Call on Monday morning the Alumni Union Bureau of the School of Public Administration and ask their members to know who is available to take up management posts. But don't go to the logic of postmortem employees, don't build a private ministry. There will also be huge problems and legality in managing immigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u446	Thank you very much, Mr. Bernardakis. I call to Stepma the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Eustathio Constantinidis, for seven minutes. It is a good request, because the Chamber will soon be filled and we will have to start the roll-call vote, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in order to tackle the multi-factorous immigration phenomenon, the government is bringing in a new draft law to a vote, thus proving its true intention to make the best use of it. And if immigration is really a challenge for every country, for Greece it has beyond the socio-economic and other dimensions as it was clearly demonstrated in the recent events in Evros, where the uncovered manipulation of the phenomenon by Turkey was recorded. There, with the proper manipulations of the Greek Government, the leadership of the European Union has been able to determine with naked eyes the cynical way in which human misery is being worked by our eastern neighbour in the context of his political settlements. It is clear to us that this cannot and will not be tolerated. So to the extent that the refugee is continuing or being used in plans to challenge our national security and our sovereign rights, our attitude will be unresolved and our response directly commensurate with the intensity of the threat. But the New Democracy Government also has a clear political position in the migration. It is inextricably oriented towards respect for human value and respect for the rules of international protection for those who really deserve it. It is necessary, however, to serve practically, to streamline the procedures, ensure appropriate structures, strengthen the services involved and, of course, ensure social peace and security. It is therefore clear that the institutional and organisational framework for dealing with this complex problem must be corresponding to the factors affecting it. We are, as the Deputy Minister pointed out, in the post-Evros era, where nothing is the same as the previous day. Since the implementation of the previous law has achieved significant results: Reduction of flows, reduction of accommodation in reception and identification centres on the islands, a spectacular increase in the adoption of decisions on asylum applications, i.e., I mention in April that we reached 15 000 eight hundred and fifty-three, and vice versa a significant reduction in outstanding cases before the Appeals Authority. At the same time, steps have been identified to address delays or malfunctions in connection with the import arrangements, which will further accelerate the examination of applications for international protection and return to the countries of origin for those who do not have the refugee characteristics. It is therefore clear that the trademark issued by the country with the policy applied is meaningless, which is not unrestricted by the contribution of the geopolitical parameter. And that makes perfect sense. The real refugee will not be subjected to any strictness. Even so, he, if he has an easier choice, will follow. On the other hand, where will the person who does not meet the refugee criteria choose to go? In an environment that moves in the diligent or strict limits of civil law? In a system which ensures him with unreasonable benefits and benefits, or in the event of a rapid examination of his request to be subject to a return procedure? Will he go where he will go unchecked until he finds the opportunity for his final destination or where in case of rejection he is in danger of being held in a closed detention centre? The answer is obvious and self-evident. Does that mean that this logic justifies excessively strict treatment? Oh, no. The solution is not a violation of human rights, nor is it contempt for civil law and Union directives, because that has the opposite effect. Instead of solving it, you become the problem and you surround yourself. So here we come to the other point of friction. In our criticism of the SYRIZA, in particular, that the regulations that we are adopting will lead to our condemnation by the European institutions. Is that the risk? Theoretically, there is always and has happened in the past both in SYRIZA and in other fields, outside of immigration. However, the conditions and data of each time also affect the case law of the judiciary of the European Union and, in turn, the legislative framework of its members. It is therefore risky and perhaps harmful to prejudge our country's convictions of violating European legal order. In support of this position, I would appeal to the fresh crisis of the European Court of Human Rights, which, in its 13-2-2020 decision by a broad section, justified Spain in the known case of Melilla, despite the fact that the competent department had unanimously accepted the appeal of the deportees. This comes to prove that in an ever-changing environment nothing remains static, nor of course the law. We must therefore be able at the same time to be flexible, efficient and consistent in the requirements of refugee legislation. The arrangements of this law, integrated into the overall government policy, will fulfil these objectives and lead to the effective decongestion of the islands. That is why we are voting, ladies and gentlemen. We are voting on the creation of closed centres, on the shortening of the deadlines for examining asylum applications, on the use of technology, in order to speed up procedures, on better structure and staffing of services, on the effective protection of unaccompanied minors, on the cessation of procedures for those who do not cooperate, on improving the living conditions of those who are entitled to protection and the genuinely vulnerable groups, on the control of Greek and foreign non-governmental organisations. For these reasons, I am unreservedly voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u448	Thank you for keeping time. I invite my colleague to Stepma by SYRIZA, Mr Christos Giannoulis for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr Kumucako, you have our full and complete understanding and sympathy that you have come out of your clothes from the sad presence of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. I understand. With his political approach to the Messology Hotel, he showed that this was a sad omission in a debate on a bill that at least to such an extent did not arrive and you have our support. Of course, the sad one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u450	Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u451	For the hotel in Messolong, didn't you invoke him? We were ahead. Yes, but you know you're not the only one who felt the sad presence of the parliamentary representative. There are all the people who understand that there is a serious, great lack of confidence in a parliamentary group. For so many hours there have been little Members of the majority to defend your legislation. Most were simply content to attack or slander the previous government, but few found or had the adequacy and political will to support the bill. The question of confidence arises and is multiplying, ladies and gentlemen, by the fact that you have made Parliament a genuine breeder of hypocritical and sub-political action. There is no three hundred and twenty articles with legislative acts to be the subject of this composition of the House. It can't be done. There's no question of trust. I return to the sad presence of the Parliamentary Representative, for he felt that lies and slanders could overcome the frustration of this legislation six months after the continuation of the previous legislation on the same matter, immigration. Well, Mr. Lebanon, the murder in Marfin has been attributed to the condition that it should. If you don't know the terms, SYRIZA has spoken of crime, murder, a gray page of barbarism. And the grey page of barbarism is about any loss of human life, as was the loss of life with Gregopoulou and the Bridge, where you didn't have the courage and the courage to make the slightest mention. There's no separating party and color, and we won't play with the dead. And one last thing: How hypocrisy this Chamber can stand, when it is only today when it is revealed that at the same time that you invite the political leadership to the Saturday ceremony, you are the natural and moral perpetrators of the impoverished to at least pay the compensation to the victims, the relatives of the victims! Mercy! The shame cannot give rise to what is being done, as it cannot deliver everything that you could include in your sad presence for the 80 million-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-pallar-pallar-pallar-pallar-pallar-payer-paller-payer-payer-paller-payer-payer-payer-payer-payer-payer-payer-payer-payer-pay-payer-payer-payer. Have you heard anything about them in this country? It's in this country. But, above all, because we are being watched by thousands of teachers at this time, I would like to say that everything I have told you and many others still exist on the agenda. It's just that the agenda is the unfunded one, it's the agenda that's not paid to the 20 million that we're still waiting for Mr. Petsas' "site" to tell us on which criteria, how and where they were given. We're still waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u452	Are you going to say the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u453	For the bill? Don't worry. Three days we've been talking about the bill, but you don't change your mind. If you want us to have a dialogue, I'll tell you something else about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u454	Don't interrupt! You won't determine what each one will say. Go on, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, they are interrupting defenders. At this point we are being watched by thousands of teachers, and please do not make the same mistake as the public health officials, those who have been slamming for years, those who have, unfortunately, had the fate of these people, do not make the same mistake to bring you history first to talk about fugitives and drones and now about heroes. This is what you are going to do with Mrs Kerameo's amendment - an abortion, where, not least, education is becoming a reality. Welcome and manage with the political responsibility that governs you or does not govern you with 20 million and how much more you will make available in communication, but education is not a reality. There is no presence of cameras, without control, without the responsibility and consistency that the state must show to the protection of children, pupils, parents and teachers. Tell me something you know all about it: Who is it to ensure that the e-learning lesson, which you enter, can replace the physical role, the physical presence of the teacher? Do you have this impression that our children's teachers and teachers are merely knowledge carriers, are people who do not support their method and presence in the physical presence, but also in the look they meet? Do you have the impression that everything is a screen, it's all electronic data transfer? You're wrong. Because you complained about the bill, I don't have much to say, because most of us talked about it in the committees. It is regrettable that within six months you are trying to improve a piece of legislation that you have brought for vote and now you are transferring it or, in any case, you are amending it. I mean, however, two basic things for the secret funds, where we have not received a sufficient explanation. On what criteria and how will they be given and who will be given, in any case? I have not heard, apart from bricks, lionisms and physiologies, what has happened to this terrestrial NGO investigation, which also demonizes, canvasses, and you are trying to put it aside, to obviously assign management to some other bodies. I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. However, surely what you have lost is the trust of teachers, doctors, free tradesmen, citizens. You may have the trust of the pollsters. In any case, many more of the business friends you're going to favor may be the polling sample. However, you've definitely lost people's trust. I am closing with the appeal to memory and honoring the loss of Dimitris Kremastinos, a man who has given me the honour of being also my interlocutor in my professional activity, I am closing with the invoicing of the confidence that this man, the academic, the doctor, the politician. He's been despising trust. You, with what is being attempted - and I am returning - with the Kerameus amendment is a very clear deterioration and shame over the prospects of education and education. Think about it before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u457	Here you go, Mr. Levane. I see. There's been a personal reference to you. You'll only have a minute, though, because we have to respect the time. You have staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, I too would like to speak for the same reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u459	Minister, you only have a minute. Please warmly. Ladies and gentlemen are already coming, and we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u460	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u461	Just a minute. I'll be all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u462	Mr Giannoulis, always agrees with the regular SYRIZA to be dissatisfied with political considerations, referred to a so-called juncture and tension between me and our parliamentary representative. This is an absolute distortion of a situation. What have we discussed with Mr. Lebanese? That the IMO can't demand hotels in Greece. In order to make available a hotel, the owner must be interested. And because there was the impression that the International Organisation for Migration demands hotels, which, you know, is not legally applicable, we have immediately made it clear. To God, if SYRIZA is trying to find conflicts and divergences in a debate that was about clarifying something that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u463	You've become understandable. You have the floor for a minute, Mr Levane, because you have made a personal reference. And please, Mr. Levane, don't turn the ball.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u464	Thank you for the time and I also thank the Minister for clarifying what SYRIZA spokesman has tried to do again. My personal reproach doesn't bother me, it just characterizes you. But it is politically returned and it is across your party and not to you personally. You can't stand dialogue or criticism. You can't bear the truth above all. Even today, after everything you said, you didn't have the courage to say that this day those three people, one of whom was pregnant, were black. You just said it was a gray one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u465	It's a disgrace to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u466	Secondly, in the Minutes, I make the statement from your party's Press Office, read it, and tell us where the word 'killing' is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u467	Do you know Greek?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u468	Your Greek people judge every day, you are also judged of your actions and of what you say. As far as the Messolonghi is concerned, I respect your opinion, but I would like to see what your party's MEPs and SYRIZA members will tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u469	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u470	No, please don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u471	Mr. President, please! Three times a report has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u472	There was no personal reference. It was opinions. If anyone from your party wants to answer, then go ahead and say. No mention has been made. There was clarification, as he had the right, in many personal attacks. Mr Savvas Snowides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, this is a disgrace. He's not listening? He doesn't understand? Three times...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u474	And because it is not Mr Snowides, Mr. Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u476	Don't insist. You're not going to take the floor. We're so out of time already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u477	Tell Mr. Lebanese who's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u478	You tell him later. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Before I say about the bill, I feel the need to express my condolences to the loss of the doctor, MP, minister, teacher, Mr. Dimitris Kremastinos. I will soon say a story - let me say it - which is not known. In 1994, when I was a rural doctor in Rethymnon, I had built the Association of Agricultural Doctors and Workers of Primary Care of Rethymnon. We had done a lot of things down there then. We had equipped all the farm medical facilities with the help of the late Angelidaki, the hospital commander. And because two incidents had been lost from epidural hematomas at the Rethymnon Hospital that had no CT then, we organized on the initiative of the association of workers, who I was president, a dance played by the late Thanasis Scordalus. Then they gathered for the first time 4-5 million drachmas from this dance, which was the basis, to then give many donations from local entrepreneurs. They were gathered in a very fast time around 12-13 million drachmas and we went up with Nikos Papadakis, director of the Perama Health Center, in Athens, with Minister of Cremastinos at the time and asked him to complete the rest by 25, to buy the CT scanner in the hospital. And that's how that CT scanner was bought. She was my first acquaintance to him and I was impressed that she directly accepted it and said yes. And then, our acquaintance continued during my ministerial service, which has always been a serious and fundamental criticism of everything we've done. The parentheses are closed. Mr Mitaraki, on 7 April you are making the air a decision to conduct a negotiation procedure for the formation and basic maintenance of the structures referred to in Article 8 in Malakasa. On paper up here it says "Information: Mr. Matthiatos". That's what's going on at 7:00. The appointment of Mr Matthiatou shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 9 month. In other words, before his appointment as director of technical service is published, he also has a competition and a competition committee, which is not a competition but a direct award, because it is an invitation of interest that only one company calls. That's never happened in time. Not to have taken your appointment card out in the Official Journal of the Government, come out with retrospective effect since March 20 and be the one to publish the invitation, which makes the committee and which, after three days, breaks the worldwide record of executing a public competitive or direct awarding procedure, assigns to the only company that invited, "VITAEL", the task of forming the structure for receiving refugees in Malakasa, worth EUR 4.5 million. In the meantime, you negotiated a great deal with all 4.5 million. You've got a big discount! Because I've also asked mayor, I want to ask you a few questions straight away: Firstly, for this money, have you received the approval of the European Commission? Because some people say you haven't taken her and she won't pay for it. And then, if the European Commission does not pay them, where will they be paid? Secondly, this company, "VITAEL", do you know whose it is? He's a gentleman named Blasher. From what I've got here, her formation from Gemini, and she says that Mr. Vlasseros Vassiliou is responsible for Georgios. Who's Mr. Vasseros? Old acquaintance from the Batoped scandal, if I remember correctly. I'm filing these papers too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What then had Mr. Vlaseros done in the Batoped scandal, if you remember? He was the CEO of Padista, the real estate company that was involved in history. And what did Mr. Vasseros have done? Representing the Papist Group, he had signed a property purchase against 6.7m euros one day after the contractor Mr Papaioannou bought the same real estate at half price, 3.6m euros with the checks of Vlasseros himself. This is a redemption of black political money. And there was both in the Minutes of the House and in the exam. Since then, of course, it has been undertaken to investigate it. But these are recorded. That's the only one you'll be yelling at. Let me remind you, of course, that Mr. Papistas had that company. The president of NOTE Kozani, New Democracy, had a neural position. His unpaid associate was also Mr. Kouklobani, the New Democracy organisation in western Macedonia. In other words, here we are talking about a carabinean business conflict, which continues with this delegation new from the New Democracy ring. But now let's go down and see who Mr. Mattyatos is. Mr. Matthiatos is the only and first historical after the Century. It's nothing but Juda that thing. With an article in a recently passed law, you made it possible to establish a technical service with a postmortem director and eight posted officials. Postmortem, not permanent public administration officials! Can you imagine, Mr. Ministers, that we would have done this, what orgies would the media have done? I see Mr. Markopoulos here who was piercing his clothes. The fist rises, because it is the day of the anti-fascist victory of the people. Don't do that. It doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u480	Don't refer to names, Mr. Polakis, because they'll be there personally afterwards. Do not refer to names.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u481	He's doing my hand like this now, and it's the day the Soviets ratted the flag in Berlin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u482	You may be friends, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u483	U shrimp what quality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u484	Can you imagine we would have done that thing, what kind of orgy would they have done? What would they say about the "Syromadur" state, about Tsipra's best friends? Now that you're doing the Ministry of Migration your own company and your own personal shop, will anyone speak? Because in today's bill you extend this possibility for the technical service and the Legal Service, that it will go to international relations too. Don't you have executives? Wasn't there two hundred twelve appointed? Didn't you receive five engineers from us in his formation? Aren't engineers now coming from these forty-nine appointed within May? Wasn't there an architect in these two hundred twelve appointed? Didn't you have the Reception and Identification Service, its Technical Service, where there were staff there serving political engineers? I have their names here, too. You know, so you can give the job where you want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Watch out now, let's go down, again for the posters, because what you've said, here you will be proclaimed. Because your ultimate state is nothing but the service of deals and ruffles. At the Ministry of Migration Policy on SYRIZA - what you abolished, rebuild, etc., etc. - how many posted and political positions were there that we, together with ministers, with Secretary-General, etc.Huh? Forty-eight! How many so far have you, with ministers, two Secretary-General, two Special Secretarys, two Deputy Commanders, the eleven Governors?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u485	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u486	I'll finish, I want it to be heard. It's so far a hundred thirty-three. From forty-eight, a hundred thirty-three! You have appointed posters with other wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u487	Good, and that's what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u488	What's that? Is that a state? Is it trust in public administration, or is it impulse to the state in the name of the coronary, in the name of urgent needs, in order to implement the election deals and help your friends?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u489	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u490	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u491	No, he doesn't have another minute. Mr. Polakis, you're done. You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u492	Yeah, but one minute was a due price.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u493	Yeah, we all did the honors. If you'd like, the price's also costing it to make real sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u494	I also want answers to this. What is the urgency of the information system contracts which must be calculated as belonging to the classified contracts as well and which must be provided directly? What's the emergency there? Why do you extend it to Article 59?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u495	You're done, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u496	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u497	No, no, I've already booked your microphone. You don't sound. Hot request, can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u498	Open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u499	No, it can't. I won't open it to you because you've reached nine and a half minutes. Close with this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u500	It's annoying what I'm saying, I know, but don't turn off my mic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u501	The microphone, when you don't obey...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u502	Previously, many speakers have exceeded their time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u503	You don't have a special treatment, you understand. Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u504	I want the same treatment that many speakers have had before, who have exceeded the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u505	No, you're wrong. I cut them all off, and everybody made the observation. You've reached ten minutes. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u506	So to conclude, because they are very annoying about the ears of the President-in-Office, I want specific answers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u507	It's nothing annoying about me, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u508	Don't cut me out all the time. Just a word. What are the classified costs you're going to make? What are you going to do in particular? Isn't there the secret expenses of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Aren't there any classified costs of the NSA? Why do you have to have one too? In fact, you are saying and anticipating an article that, in six months, the papers must be destroyed. And it reminds me of the song, "I'll burn my papers so that you don't see where my money went." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u510	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Only answer Mr Polakis as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u511	Thank you very much. Mr Paulakis has presented, in his friendly way, an issue that we have answered in committee. I will repeat it for the plenary. First of all, the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, because it operated through NGOs which managed 82% of the funds, did not have a technical service. We have four engineers at the Ministry of University Education...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u512	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u513	These four engineers had to manage thirty-eight structures, the central agency and create new structures. So I came to the House in February and presented a provision on the creation of the Technical Service, I defended it and voted in favour of it. With regard to the CVT mentioned, you know that CVT personnel are issued one month later, with retroactive effect. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u514	He can't sign until the FEK comes out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u515	As far as the European Commission is concerned, the expenditure has been declared. Expenditure has been declared to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u516	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u517	But I will tell you what is most important, Mr Polakis. Three quick points. Firstly, no one disputes that in March, when we had the asymmetrical threat to the border, two thousand people, arrivals on eleven islands, for reasons and coronary reasons, had to be created within a few days two new structures in Malakasa and in Serres, and that was also done with the urgency procedure. That's the first. Secondly, what process? Article 96 of Law No.4368, Article 17 of Law No.4650, Arts 32 and 32a of Law No.4412. All three are bills, SYRIZA. I do not question them, but when you consider that there is a need for urgency in specific cases, do not question it today. The third and most important is: Why was this company chosen? Let me give you a reply. It is the company that in 2018 SYRIZA made the rest of Malakasa. For reasons of urgency, we chose the company that had already built the other half of the project, because he knew the location. I'll give you a number. SYRIZA’s project in 2018 cost 3.050 euros per resident. This year's work was done in a week, a temporary structure for the four hundred sixty people from Lesvos. So extra temporary structure, extra double NATO fence, not simple. In addition, we had the coronary and had to work under special conditions. There's maintenance inside for six months. However, the cost is EUR 2,330 per resident. So it's 23% cheaper, the same contractor you put in, for a project with more technical characteristics. I'm not asking you to applaud it, but at last show, please, a seriousness. We faced a crisis in March and had to make difficult decisions within a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u518	Mr Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u519	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u520	No, no, Mr. Polakis. If you're not satisfied, ask a question. You said yours. The Minister gave the answer. Let's move on. Mr. Manolak, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, SYRIZA did not do the work. Immigration International did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u522	And we paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u523	You don't sound. Mr. Manolak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u524	Allow me, Mr President, above all, to congratulate the government's leaders for the effective management of the pandemic, an unprecedented situation that we have faced, as well as the health staff who have given and continue to fight with the invisible enemy every day. If the government's success belongs to all the Greeks, it was something that the country needed. At the outset of the Krone crisis, a new relationship is being established between a state of respect and confidence, and we shall proceed in that direction. The bill that has been coming to the vote today deals with the biggest problem that has been agitating the country for many years and will continue to be agitated. It's his migratory and side effects. Everyone has dealt with this issue; the European Union and its institutions, first-entry countries, intermediate countries, end-users, international organisations, economic operators, non-governmental organisations, migrants, local authorities, local societies, even secret services. This multi-level environment would therefore be expected to be very tightly structured and organised by the state in order to provide rapid solutions and avoid negative side effects. But it was, wasn't it? I regret to say that the left did not know what the right was doing. In structures where immigrants came in and went out so they wanted, went and returned without anyone controlling them, the NGOs were struggling, the local communities were squeezing and some were getting rich. The certificates were broken, the examination of the asylum was carried out at turtle rate, the repatriations almost nonexistent and in general and the climate and the spirit was "opened and we are waiting for you" "Come, Desert" and the process in the Greek bells. I should like to point out two things here: first of all, Europe's attitude and Turkey's attitude. Firstly, with regard to Europe's attitude, except for the recent case of the attempted invasion of Evros, it is inadequate and contrary to the spirit of the alliance. The statements of support and support are good, but the concept of European solidarity is not just exhausted by the granting of money to the countries that form the external borders. Europe must promote a system of fair distribution of refugees and we have so far not seen that. I think the time has come for a radical change in European immigration policy. The current policy is deadlocked, it is unfair and disastrous for our country. Secondly, Turkey's attitude. Turkey has used and will continue to use immigrant as a tool for self-interesting purposes, so it is blackmailing Europe for economic exchanges and others, so it is blatantly violating every concept of international law, so it is putting pressure on us to bend our minds, always having its eyes on the Eastern Mediterranean. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, what is it doing? We can say he whistles indifferently. Turkey is also demoralising. Someone has to tell her 'until here'. In our homeland, things have changed. Both the successful response to the attempted invasion of Evros, as well as the management of the pandemic, have highlighted a government with determination and effectiveness, the understanding of the political world of the country and the unity of our people in the critical and serious issues, sending a strong signal in all directions, I think, in particular to Turkey, saying that we are here, we are at home, we are ready and determined to defend our national sovereignty and our sovereign rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of the previous immigration policy in the context that I mentioned earlier would kneel down the country. Our Government, the Government of New Democracy, cannot allow this. This draft makes the simple and self-evident act. It sets order, rules and organization, and we can say that the previous government was not particularly successful. We all remember the NGO ghosts, the NGOs who did not state the sources of their funding, which spent vaguely without recording their actions and some of them being suspicious. That's all in the past. The closed structures that will also function as recording and identification centres are expected to restore the order and safety of residents on our islands. Ladies and gentlemen, there is strong concern about the increase in migratory flows expected in the near future. Our main aim is to reduce these, and this will be achieved with the policy mix: the creation of closed centres, a tighter and faster asylum and re-promotion system, better border protection - which is already seen - and the essential contribution of Europe and a fair distribution of refugees between Member States.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u525	Close with this proposal. Not a half a minute longer. There's no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u526	This is how we send out a clear message in all directions. Greece is no longer an ideal destination for uncontrolled migration flows, but a state with borders and rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u527	Thank you very much, Mr Manolak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u528	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u529	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis, has the floor for seven minutes, with full implementation of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u530	Ladies and gentlemen, we are saying good-bye today to Dimitris Kremastino, the fighter, the politician, the academic, the doctor, the man. He offered a lot and wanted to offer even more. I had the honor and luck of working with him in the House and I have to say he was great and special. With Dimitris Kremastino we didn't meet at the same party. But we shared common values and common visions. My sincere condolences to his companions, the Change Movement and the PASOK. Unfortunately, in these circumstances, we cannot say goodbye to him as we would like and as he deserves. But we'll do it right after that. Mr. Levant, how many times do you want us to tell you in ten years? It was murder. And you know very well, because we know that we are demonstrating and ruling for human life, for human dignity, for the right to strike, for the right to safe work, against employers' terrorism. You and your lineup for these three last ones have ever been down on any course? Why do you divide the Greek people in this way? Because they're the ones and you've always been. We honor them, we remember them and we don't have to give credentials to anyone. With regard to the progress of the economic crisis. Slowly you begin to understand that communication is not enough to hide or overcome this crisis. Stavros Xarchakos had to tell you with his well-known and undeniable contribution, not only to culture, but also on his way to the conservative party. We had to rise up to the stones in the subject of vouchers and free professionals. Do you realize where we are? Do you see the forecasts of the IMF, the Commission, the institutions, the financial houses? Have you learned lessons from the previous crisis? Do you think you'll deal with it all by communicating? Do you think the crisis is being dealt with by opposition to the opposition? During the 2010 period, the major political parties did not read the crisis or underestimate it or believe it or say that they believed or lied and said that in the second half of 2011 we will rebound. Then they said that in the second half of 2012 we would rebound and then in the second half of 2013 we would rebound. We told you two months ago. Look at what other European economies do. Design the pillow, support the work. You lied about being a pioneer in European Union spending while we are a pig. You are dispersing the pillow in KEKs, in the middays, you are giving nothing to the long-term unemployed, you are arrogant and arrogant to the people of culture, you have no plan for focusing and tourism, you have no plan for the middle-class, in whose name you won the elections. Who will make a plan for focusing and tourism if not the Greek Government? Will Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland? That is why we will have the deepest recession in the European Union. That is why we will have the greatest unemployment. That's why inequality is going to explode. I hear from yesterday a disgraceful argument that SYRIZA supposedly rejoices with the devastating economic forecasts, and that we are supposedly waiting for you around the corner to shoot you. Well, to make it clear: We do not want the country to break its face, we do not want the Greek people to suffer, we do not want to get back to point zero, to charge political costs to the government and to the New Democracy. Because we have ruled the country and delivered it better than we have received, we have delivered it on a sustainable and upright basis and we want to govern it again with the will and command of the Greek people, we do not want to take over a crippled and damaged country and society. We do not want to avenge the Greek people and the society that has made you and our opposition. You think that way and analyse things like this, because that is how you acted as Dedicated Opposition. You've been waiting for us at the corner of the economy. I would remind you: 'Vasta Siomple, Grounds strong!'. You have undermined us with foreign policy in Macedonian; you have exchanged pensions with the name. You were praying to derail the refugee - immigration. You embraced the countries of Visegrad. You've been walking around with Mr. Webber all over Europe. But in politics, we are not all the same. We have a responsibility towards the Greek people and the future of our country to intervene, to speak, to correct. "We stay upright" are not standing as SYRIZA. "We stay upright" means we stand up as a society and as a country. Instead of causing unnecessary divisions and divisions, instead of causing you to charge elsewhere the responsibilities arising from your institutional role, listen, adopt and change. Today's immigration - refugee bill is in the wrong direction. He reads the problem wrong and with the wrong tools. It is trying to solve a problem and it will unfortunately make a lot worse. Is it getting worse? Of course, it gets worse. You've made it worse in the last ten months when you've solved it in six months. You doubled the number on the islands, beat the islanders when they disagreed with you. And I close with it, because Mr. Courides gave a new food for thought. May 9 is certainly a day of Europe, but it is also a day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples. The fight against oblivion, the struggle for historical knowledge and truth is the best shield of the present and the future that must again call "never war, never fascism, never policies that lead to war and fascism". Those who are Europeans and we want Europe as the home of its people must now fight against racism, against intolerance, against inequality, against politics, phrases and ideas that will never allow those benches to have black policies, black values and black ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u531	I, too, thank Mr Zachariadis for keeping time. I give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Philipbo Loading for seven minutes. Here you have the floor, Mr. Loading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u532	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, following so much time in plenary I thought that between 2015 and 2019 I was living in another country, obviously. We've been listening to monsters for so many hours and you want to do the white one - black one. That's impressive. Unfortunately, however, this is not a question of political controversy and I think that, instead of making your own self-criticism, you have the whole nerve here and you want to show that you have fought for all of this. Unfortunately, however, your truth has been disproved. The Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum is therefore making a huge effort in the implementation of a modern system of reception and asylum in the country, along with efforts to find common European solutions. This bill comes to cover a gap which has long existed in this policy area and manages to set a framework within a European acquis and the provisions of international humanitarian law, but also, of course, within a modern bureaucratic system based on the use of electronic means. The basic features of our government policy are on the basis of an open society established in the rule of law. Such a policy clearly cannot rely on a naive and ultimately harmful concept of open borders. On the contrary, it must ensure control of our own borders, national borders, which are Europe's borders and borders, but must also be firmly and effectively committed to respect for human rights. At the same time, it should bear the burden of providing international protection to individuals and also to populations from countries or regions suffering from wars and conflicts. Of course your own ideas, the previous government, have led to a delay in the ultimatum of the entire asylum procedure. But Greece's borders are also Europe's borders. Coping with illegal entry is a European issue, not just national ones. Since the beginning of 2020, there has been no significant reduction in migration flows in the islands and in Evros and of course there has been a reduction in the accommodation and identification of the islands. The aim of the bill, as is clearly seen from the entire existing framework it creates, is to define the ways in which it will ensure, on the one hand, the overall humanitarian nature and, on the other, the speeding up and effectiveness of all procedures provided for in it. For example, I would like to focus on some points: firstly, representation of unaccompanied children by a commissioner, as well as evaluation of this person. Secondly, direct coverage of the specific reception needs of people belonging to different vulnerable groups. Thirdly, it is possible for the applicant for international protection to counter the application of the concept of safe third country. Fourthly, use of all appropriate technological means to ensure an interpreter of applications. Fifth, maintain an online account of applicants at the asylum service. At the same time, all decision-making procedures were shortened, of course, in relation to those applied to Article 101 of Law 4636. The entire three-month period from the debate is also shortened within three days, the whole 40-day deadline, in the case of a rapid procedure, was shortened to 20 days and so on. Of course, the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government has been solely responsible for choosing NGOs who have been involved in dealing with flows of migrants and refugees. We are introducing, with this bill, the establishment of a register with scrutiny, accountability and transparency. So the entire government's policy, despite all the effects on pandemic and the difficulties of returns - where necessary of course - has brought considerable results. I will not dwell on several numbers that have been said. Therefore, with the help of the provisions of the new draft, we will be able to speed up all procedures, which will result in the shorter stay of refugees in the structures and the more efficient and more rapid processing of asylum-free procedures, so that expulsion can also be started, where necessary. But what was primarily lacking was the will, organization and structures. The whole management of the problem requires efficiency, flexibility and constant vigilance. Today this bill - which will become the law of the state in a short time - completes the coverage of this very important and great void, which we inherited from the five-year management of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill thanks to the faster adoption of decisions on asylum applications and the early and valid status of applicants as vulnerable leads to the reduction of migration flows and, of course, to the management of the impact on local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u533	Thank you very much. We're closing the list of speakers with Mr. George Papaliou from SYRIZA. Until the Step is ready, I would like to thank the four colleagues of the New Democracy who resigned from their speeches in order to facilitate the roll-call vote procedure, which will begin immediately after the end of Mr Papaliou's speech. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here, Mr President, you have the floor quite for seven minutes, because I saw that you were unleashing many pages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u534	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee - immigration problem is a major problem, and of course it requires combined and multi-level policies. In your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the approach you have in all areas of public life is reflected on this matter. The main features of this approach are the extreme right-wing idealism, the limitation of rights, the repression and, of course, opaque - in secret motions and service of friends and dissidents, they reflect the state-of-the-art mentality. On the issue of refugee - immigration, because it has an international dimension, all of this is part of the prediction of your attitude towards friends and allies. You do not think to raise the slightest objection to Europe's dominant policies that turn Greece into a storeroom of souls, trapping thousands of people into it. The policy of the Government of New Democracy has been passed through different phases. Prior to the elections and in particular in the election, the New Democracy took advantage of the existing problem by plundering, cultivating expectations and resenting with the fascist extreme right. After the elections you started with the abolition of the Ministry of Migration Policy. The failure of your virtually non-existent policy and the inertia you showed on the ground led you to the re-establishment of the Ministry as Ministry of Migration and Asylum, but also to the treasure carbons. Flows continued and multiplied. The mooring of the five thousand became Molars of twenty - five thousand under conditions that offend human dignity. In other Aegean islands, the flows have been multiplied, so that local communities reacted when you announced closed detention centres on them, for the creation of which you wanted to proceed to a property order. You raised your announcement of decongestion on the islands, because this would lead to confrontation with your own regional and mayors in mainland Greece. Next, you seem to have resurrected, taking advantage of the decline in flows, because of the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, you are introducing a bill that is supposed to improve the law that you voted on a few months ago. Another bill on speeding up asylum procedures, because it appears that all previous efforts by your government are being made to complete the international protection procedures as quickly as possible, have failed. The bill provides for further abbreviation of the time to deal with requests as an absolute priority. In the meanwhile, therefore, the extraordinary health situation, with the most vulnerable refugees and immigrants living in terrible conditions in the rough structures of the islands and in mainland Greece, has been awaiting measures to decongest structures for months. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the bill, it provides for the registration of requests for international protection by an unauthorised service outside the asylum service, that is to say, a service without self-determination, without appropriately trained personnel. The possibility is to circumvent the applicant's choice of the language in which the examination of his request for asylum will take place, despite the fact that the letter of the Community directive is clear that only the applicant can choose the language of the interview. In any case with the possibility of adopting a decision without a personal interview with the applicant, he shall be put at an increased risk of return in contravention of the principle of non-refoulement. You also retroactively abolish the possibility of referring to the granting of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons in the event of the rejection of an application for international protection, a possibility offered for humanitarian reasons and, to date, an important security net and a complement to the obligations of the Greek State in view of its international commitments to protect people who are not recognised as beneficiaries of international protection, the non-refoulement clause is in their person. The draft law also generalised the imposition of detention measures and the impairment of basic guarantees for their enforcement, but also of various other arrangements. It is clear that the prolongation of time limits and the limitation of rights does not lead to accelerated procedures. The mass recruitment of permanent staff is required. I now come to the arrangements for the structure, staffing and functioning of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, which are different from the constitutional framework and from the institutional framework of public administration. In addition, a system of secondments and movements outside the single system of public sector mobility is introduced. A legal service, which comes under and depends on the Minister, is set up despite the fact that legal support is provided by the Legal Board of State. posted officials are recruited throughout the administrative hierarchy, who may also be responsible, so that there is no institutional consistency, since the institutional memory is removed from the administration. A special appropriation of national secretaries shall be entered in the budget of the Ministry. What these issues constitute national needs have not been answered by the ministers. In fact, a decision on the allocation of resources is taken by the Minister after the opinion of the Committee of Experts set up by persons fully controlled by him. Furthermore, a disciplinary action is imposed on officials no later than six months after the end of a year, the destruction of all relevant information, invoices and other public documents! Finally, public procurement legislation is being circumvented. Direct awards are the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u535	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u536	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, the Government of New Democrat Republic shall proceed by arbitrary, unregulated, unregulated or under rules which are contained in its measures and with total opaqueness. This institutional framework introduced aims to privatise the public, which you are trying to import outsourcing licences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, too. We said that the roll-call vote would be 10: 30 to 10: 45. Already the time is 11: 25. My colleagues are all here. In order to facilitate the process, firstly, I pre-empted and thanked the four colleagues in the New Democracy who would still need more than half an hour, and I asked the Minister not to take a second reading, and this is where we will close the sitting to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u538	There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u539	Mr. President, we have a dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u540	I'm not gonna give any seconds, Mr. Kamine, that's why I said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u541	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u542	Leave now what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall each time provide for and be formulated. All four other colleagues are expected to speak. If anyone wants to make a statement for the reasons, I will only accept the statement. Do you want to make a statement, Mr. Kamine? No new places, just a statement. I will only give the floor for a minute for a statement. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u543	I want to protect the government from a mistake first of all. The legal wording you brought us for Article 50 is wrong. Correct was the original wording. In fact, in the wording you have brought us, one who has been judged to be returned to Turkey should be released even if it poses a risk to public security. Look at it in particular. You misinterpreted the finding of the Scientific Agency. Where the conditions had to be cumulatively set for him to be released, i.e. it would not be a danger to public safety and not to be judged dangerous fleeing and to be considered cooperative, you reinstated the provision of the previous bill. Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr. Psychoyote, I will give you the floor for a minute, if you want to make just a statement, not a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u545	Just a minute, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u546	No, just a minute, if you have to make a statement. The debate on the bill is closed. Mr. Psychoyote, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u547	First of all, as you know, the Rules give the right to secondary education. But one minute I'll take advantage of it as I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u548	Do you want me to tell you something? As I have been serving many other colleagues for many years in this House, I must tell you that in this parliamentary term the list of Members is almost complete...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u549	And in the previous House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u550	The time is not shortened, because we have lived in times and times when we have arrived to speak for three minutes. On the contrary, with the tolerance of the Bureau, you are all taking time and it is becoming a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u551	And the previous period...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u552	From now on, there is no need for any further debate, because we must respect what the House has decided, that the roll-call vote will take place at 22.30 p.m. to 22.45 p.m. We're at 23:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u553	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u554	Just one minute and don't tell me that the Rules of Procedure are being violated. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u555	I have a right to say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u556	You're right, but don't say it, you're misunderstood...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u557	First of all, the amendment by the Ministry of Education has also been tabled by colleagues. We consider it unacceptable, inadmissible, and ask that it be withdrawn even now because it affects both professionals and the House. The second thing I want to do is to respond to Mr Kumucaku's last night's response, which made the right and right offsetting and to tell him to be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u558	Now I don't want that. Do you have a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u559	That's the statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u560	What statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u561	This is the statement that such setbacks, when the Left has fought in the street, in the House and in society, do not honor neither ourselves, nor our route, nor our rights. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 600.a.]] Please. Please. Third and last. Because the procedure continues to obey a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, as our parliamentary representative has said, because the roll-call vote is by letter, although we would vote against all articles in roll-call vote, we are withdrawing and we are not legitimising the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u562	Thank you. The Conference of Presidents has decided, and this is how democracy works, by majority vote. The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Improving immigration legislation, amending the provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A' 169), 4375/2016 (A'51), 4251/2014 (A'80) and other provisions’ is hereby terminated. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u568	The draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles, amendments and the whole draft law and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Parliamentary Group on Articles 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58 and 59, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u569	In view of the special circumstances, I will not read out the list of signatories to the request for Members to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure, but we consider that there is one. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58 and 59 of the draft law. I would like to point out that the vote contains seven articles. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to "rol" the touch screen - scroll down. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted on all seven areas included in the vote. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber at the end of the roll-call vote to vote on the other articles and amendments. The vote begins. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u571	I would like to inform you that we have received the Bureau from the Groups of Parliament's Members, who will report their votes and which will be taken into account in the count to be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u572	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u573	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. Article 52 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 52 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 53 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 54 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 55 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 56 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 58 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 59 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u574	Ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusion of the roll-call vote, we are voting on the rest of the other articles and amendments. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. The vote shall include fifty three articles, two amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. The second article of the Ministerial Amendment, number 294, and special number 5, is inserted as Article 33 of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u575	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u576	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u577	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum: ‘Improving immigration legislation, amending the provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A' 169), 4375/2016 (A'51), 4251/2014 (A'80) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u578	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u579	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-08-S1-commons.u580	With Parliament's consent, the sitting on Monday, May 11, 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
