ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-7-2020, PPB's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday 16 July 2020 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport "Centre for Culture and Creation Acropolis and other provisions".]] Can the Secretary-General announce the references to this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent question, let me inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 20 July 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 908/10-7-2020 by MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Health, on "The recruitment of doctors and equipment in public health structures in Thesprotia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 926/13-7-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on "Direct measures for the staffing and equipment of the General Hospital of Xanthi". 3. The question by No 919/13-7-2020, raised by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Public risk of the Hatzidakis decision deferring the completion of forest maps in vain". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Heavy the footprint of the coronary crisis in the world of work in Magnesia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 930/13-7-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To subject the Tourist Bus Guides to the labour regime arising from the local sectoral collective labour convention (SE)". 3. The question under number 920/13-7-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "When will the crime in the Race finally be stopped?" 4. The 910/10-7-2020 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on "Security of the jobs of auxiliary staff in the ESS". 5. The question under number 921/13-7-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Energy Egnatia, the tombstone of Western Macedonia". 6. Under number 923/13-7-2020, a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why does the government choose to strengthen the work of forest maps and the rule of law?" REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rethymno of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious functional problems at the Rethymno Hospital due to inadequate staffing mainly of the Anesthetic Department and the Pathological clinic." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Unfavourable developments about the sustainability of e - EFKA. Government policies cause large losses of income in the insurance funds’ I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy 'Promoting Electricity'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the debate on No 24/13/26-6-2020 on a topical question by the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and Members of the Party of European Socialists (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kingdom of Kegeroglou, Georgios Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmet, Konstantinas Giannakopoulou, Christos Gokas, George Kamin, Charalambou Kastanides, Michael Katrin, Harulas (Haras), Kefalou, Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Evangelikis Likanos, Andreas Loverdus, George Mulkiotis, Burhan Baran, Dimitris Biagi, Apostlos Panagios, George Papandreou, Andreas Poulas, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Georgiou Frangiides to the Ministers for Economic, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Tourism and Rural Development, on the subject of 'Annuclear and Governmental Crisis'. The first honourable Member of Athens to the Change Movement Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the year of your government service, the Change Movement followed with consistency, stability and determination the way of a truly structural opposition. We have not stayed in a sterile and less opposing speech, we have not carried out excessive shells as measures. Everything we wanted was costly, serious, responsible. It is true that some and not our enthusiastic proposals from your Government have accepted them, but in many cases it has attempted to familiarize them with its communication superpower. Others have done so late that they have lost their strength. The most recent example was the debate here in Parliament on the timely question put by our President to Prime Minister Mitsotakis and the debate on this subject was held, which the next day took publicity about the new measures proposed by the Prime Minister. The question we have tabled has a concrete and timely objective. To place the government as a whole on a one-year course for the measures it has taken, because, as you do, we are making the final statement of your work, judging the measures and policies that you have taken on the basis of our own proposals. This also shows the content of the question that provides a very extensive and serious position towards what we have proposed and what you have done or omitted. From the distance of one year, judging, the overall position on the course of the economic and development things in the country is that the measures you have taken and the policies you have implemented to tackle the crisis, not only by treating them as a global policy, are insufficient, but also that there are no positive developments ahead of the next crucial issues that the country has to deal with. Our question, in the way it is formulated, puts our own proposal in conflict with your own policies, to demonstrate the different starting points, directions and proposals of another policy, which could be more credible, more effective and, above all, more just social. My colleagues from the Movement of Change to the individual issues raised by our question will be placed very thoroughly and essentially. I will be staying in three general remarks and will highlight the results of your policy in the immediate future of the Greek economy and the development of the country. From the outset, I say that our view is that the measures you have taken as a whole are, firstly, an anemic and inadequate intervention in entrepreneurship, secondly, a huge deregulation in the labour market and thirdly, an anti-development and anti-social policy on the two key pillars for the relaunching of the economy and growth after the pandemic. I am obviously referring to tourism and the agri-food sector. As far as the first one is concerned, you have declared - and quite rightly so - that the main priority of your policy was to save as much as possible the country's existing production potential and jobs. So the measures you have taken for that are totally inadequate. On liquidity issues? You're talking to the agencies. What about the range of enterprises in this process? You are discussing with the relevant bodies. We talked, too. There is a general outcry that they are not really serving the objective that you have set. When GSE calculates that about eight of the ten small and micro-enterprises do not enter the account at all, when they calculate and say that at least one out of seven companies will close, this shows that the attempt to rescue companies is an anemic attempt and that the specific measures, mainly concerning only suspensions of payments and such, were so inadequate that they did not give answers to it. In addition to saving business, there is new entrepreneurship, and there are incentives for new investments. It is not only a matter of rescue, it is also a question of restructuring, as you often say in the theory, but in practice there is nothing to show that you have a priority in substantially strengthening entrepreneurship. As far as the issue of labour market deregulation is concerned, dogma is well known, we have said so repeatedly. Half-wage, half-wage pay, reduction of insurance rights. We, of course, do not close our eyes in the face of developments in the area of new jobs, employment relationships, teleworking, distance work and what is obviously shrinking and existing jobs. We do not close our eyes in the face of the need for businesses to save their jobs, but we have a great priority, that we cannot accept the complete deregulation of employment relationships. Because with this policy you are neither protected nor aggressively created new jobs and full employment. Here with the subsidisation of unemployment, with the suspension of contracts, with the elasticization of relations, with the reduction of wages, there is a bleak environment in terms of work, and of course, apart from the fact that the great problem, the scourge of the social crisis, which is unemployment, is going to escalate and everyone claims this, is the worker himself in the workplace, the way he works, which is paid, which is protected from arbitrary difficulties. You have, firstly, a classic policy of full flexibility in relations, and secondly, subjection - I would say - of this need in the course of the economy and in the service of specific interests. The issue is also that in the agricultural and tourism sectors we have set out a number of positions which explain why the measures are insufficient. In addition, they are already seen in the evolution that things have in the tourist regions. They also seem to be in the desperation that farmers feel through the process that we know about certain products and their weakness, such as watermelons in Elias and various other regions, where farmers, in fact, have a climate of total insecurity, no protection and, at the same time, there is no possibility of seeing the agricultural sector leave this situation in the coming months. The question is, Minister, how does this policy look in the future? It is, in our opinion, far from the need to relaunch the economy. I would like to mention two issues which are recent. One issue concerns the results of your policy in the current financial year. There is the implementation of the budget and the provisional information that has come out. The government budget balance shows a deficit of about 8.951 billion, compared with 2.626 billion. That means, Minister, that with the deficit of 6,369 billion for this six-month period the budget is falling out. The optimistic and almost festive tones that we are going well have no place in this development. How long will the deficit be at the end of the year? How will it be covered? Loaning? With the stock? What fuel will the state move? And this one with a sword hanging over us. When will the budgetary rules that have been suspended today come back? And what have you said in Brussels about how the longer term of suspension of these financial rules will be ensured? It is a huge issue that has to do with the ability of the economy to cope and its inability to get back into a process of memorials and various other atrocities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The second concerns not only the amount of resources to come. I wish that the total of 62 billion will come along with the national budgets that are being budgeted - which we very much doubt - but how, where and when they will be used. I'm coming to the Pissaridis committee. Look, you very much like technocratic knowledge and those who know to tell us what to do in the country. I did not, obviously, read the hundred and fifty pages of the proposal. I saw her contour. We're talking about a management plan on the existing model. The issues that this analyses as restructuring do not involve substantial restructuring. What does a national plan mean? National plan means which state will implement this plan, when the current NSRP has only 25% uptakes so far? How will it ensure the possibility of this existing state, if it does not change, not overturn? What banks will finance and how many new companies, when they do not actually agree with small entrepreneurs on liquidity in companies today? What bodies will make use of the country's last group of productive powers at regional level, when the government operates in a completely centralised manner and wants everything to be done by the Prime Minister's office? We are, in fact, talking about a project that we all say the same. In other words, whatever programs I can bring you from what the parties have made from time to time, especially in recent years, you will see that the goals are the same, the sectors, the comparative advantages we all know. We all know where to target. The question is how these are being implemented. The way in which the country is governed shows that no more than similar policies can be implemented. Your policy, Minister, I understand it. It's a return to normality. We are going there, in other words, to know how we are going to deal with it, how we are going to deal with it, what we are going to press, how many resources will come and so on. The country needs changes and major changes, which, unfortunately, your Government cannot do, because it is a genuinely conservative version of the needs that the country has, which are much wider needs for its own survival.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u4	Next question Member, Mr. Katrinis Michael, is here for five minutes. Unless you want, Mr. Catarini, you can use the time of your dentistry together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u5	I'll need one, two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u6	Warm request after the first speaker, that the timetable, that is, the time of speech, be respected, because after the time-consuming question the Members are following the time-consuming questions. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, four months after the start of Lockdown and two months after the reopening of the market, without underestimating in any case the health risk, we should all realize, but also agree that the greatest losses from the crisis are recorded by Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals and merchants who will be subject to a cumulative reduction of EUR 50 billion in their turnover in 2020. They are the ones who suffer the consequences of market disturbance and the impossibility of the government to support, at this very difficult time, the real economy. The Government is confined to communication management and a unilateral repetition of any measures taken late, many of which are found to be inadequate by the result. At the moment, the recession, which was initially estimated at zero and then at 3%, today shows that it can approach 10% and perhaps overcome it, if tourism falls down, something that we are really depriving ourselves of. The primary deficit in the first half is EUR 5.9 billion and this is only for the first half. It is an opportunity to reply, Minister, to one question: What have you discussed on the level of the primary surplus for 2021? I would point out that the economic climate index according to IOBE was reduced by 1.1% in June, contrary to the 8% increase in the Eurozone, the stock market has a continuous decline, again in reverse with the picture of European stock exchanges and, at the same time, we see the ministers of the government to reconcile their measures, for the billions they have shared in words, but they have never reached the real market and the professionals. The Government, despite the liquidity guarantee by means of the State bonds it provided to the banks through the European Central Bank's programme, did not make any conditions for banks to finance viable companies, even for loans that had a State guarantee. And we are talking about access to funding that according to the Bank of Greece's SAFE survey and according to yesterday's "ERNST AND YOUNG" survey is one of the biggest problems facing companies in our country, when according to official figures in 2019 we had a negative cumulative net flow of bank financing to small and medium-sized enterprises. You, therefore, accepted the strict criteria set by the banks and which had been blocking almost seven out of ten companies, which had no banking, tax and insurance information after ten years of crisis. That's insane! It is worth mentioning that at the end of 2019, according to the Bank of Greece data, 55% of the reserve of non-performing loans corresponds to a business credit. Despite government triumphs on 2 April for eight hundred thousands of professionals who would be included as a benefit in support measures, the 800 euro allowance, according to the official Ministry of Development's answer three days ago, reached less than 60% of the professionals, despite the continuous changes of the CAR, while much less the number of companies that finally qualified the liquidity tools, announced by the Development Bank with promises of a rainfall of billions by government officials. The loans promised by the government did not even reach the companies fulfilling the strict banking criteria adopted by the government, creating a financial gap of almost EUR 10 billion. And here we go in particular: in TEPIX II, we had ninety thousand six hundred twenty-two applications, and ten thousand and fifty-thousand euros, a reply from the Ministry of Development on July 13th. The programme closes, reopens after the outcry to accept more than seventy thousand applications, without knowing whether funds are available and how much is available, an indication of the dullness with which it was designed and implemented. Guarantee Fund: You remove the employment clause, leaving workers literally to God's mercy, with global proposals exceeding EUR 18 billion when the initially available amount does not exceed EUR 3.5 billion. There is so far no official briefing. Because of the ineffectiveness of these programmes, you are only announcing on 20 May micro-credits to facilitate, as you say in the explanatory statement, access to liquidity for companies that are excluded from banking lending. And it is something that we supported, as you know very well, since we voted a week ago on this bill. With regard to the only effective liquidity tool that has actually reached the real economy, the repayable advance, we have asked you two months ago to increase the total amount to EUR 3 billion, because we saw the failure of the liquidity tools, which you accepted two weeks ago. The first phase covered fifty-two thousand enterprises. The second phase is not yet complete, it has been extended, and there must be a response today to when the third phase of the repayable advance will be opened, which is not foreseen earlier than August, when the companies for which you aim for the third phase now need this valuable working capital. We have asked for an amendment to reduce the tax rate for 2020 to 50% for all businesses and for zeroing for directly affected enterprises. You have announced a reduction in the mid-term of 30%, when you know, Minister, that companies are unable to meet current obligations even. You have not proceeded to pay the cheques from the debtors, creating a suffocation on the market. You continue to exclude retail companies from the 40% reduction in rent for July and August, while you are aware of the dramatic drop in turnover in the market, without, of course, providing the owners with similar reductions. Of course, the important issue, while businesses, as I said before, are drowned by the lack of liquidity, new red loans of EUR 7 to 10 billion, according to the Central Bank's estimates yesterday, create a very difficult environment, and you open the escapades of Halos with the liberalisation of auctions after 31 July. And I would like to ask you straight away: Do you intend to extend the protection regime against first home auctions? You refused the proposal of the Change Movement to set up a Intergroup for the protection of first residence. All parties accepted it, only New Democracy refused. You are discussing with the banks and institutions the new Banking Code, which in practice leads to the release of auctions, insisting on the platform that has led to a thousand four hundred fifteen settings in one year of operation, a failed SYRIZA platform that you are adopting, we do not know why. We don't fight with cries and fireworks. That is why we have tabled an amendment to extend the validity of Law 3869 with updated criteria, as well as the right to buy the debtor's loan before it ends up in the fund. You obviously underestimate this risk or adopt what has been said by the head of an investment group, that there must be a banking and broker connection ahead of the operation of the institution, which is washing us with cold sweat and if not us in this Chamber, certainly the weak borrowers. One in three companies is at risk of losing three hundred thousand jobs. Inertia, steam, but unfortunately your inability to support the businesses that have endured ten years of crisis is not covered by any communication management that you try to do. Because communication management will be very weak when conflicting with the harsh reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Catarini, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. We in the Change Movement have a different approach. We have taken legislative initiatives to support the citizens and the real economy that you have rejected. Our own interlocutors are the world of work, the professionals, the small and medium-sized businessmen who are at risk of losing their first residence. It is true, Minister, that you will answer whether you will proceed with what you have announced to grant loans to weak borrowers who will be in danger of losing their home in a few days' time. We are fully aware of the deadlocks that all professional entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized merchants are experiencing. We have it and that is why we are making the proposals. We hope that you will also have it and function accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u10	Mr. George Mulkiotis is next. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, today symptoms are being supplemented by our vow, by the vow of Members of the new Parliament, a year of policy of the'seeing and doing' of the Mitsotakis Government, but also a year of constructive, conspicuous and concrete opposition by the Group of the Change Movement. In this context, therefore, our timely question is also included, because you, instead of giving a solution to the burning problems of the economy, the labour market and society, are presenting a virtual reality that you would probably be ready for some time now. Although you are ruling in a different context in relation to the 2009 crisis - perhaps more favourable in some way - you are unable to provide substantial solutions. And the worst, Minister, is that you ignore the essential issues of our realistic proposals, or do you say that you ignore them, and then of course you adopt them too many times with the titles and not with their content. The Change Movement considers that no one should be alone in this crisis, and that is why we are vertical when we tell you that there must be a clause of support and support for all. In particular, our proposals for the world of work have been aimed at this only at the first moment. A characteristic example is the timely proposal to subsidise unemployment, our universal plan to cover 40% of the wages and social security contributions of workers for six months in companies affected by the crisis. So instead of adopting it and giving useful solutions for businesses and workers, you have instituted the falsifying mechanism for strengthening employment under the heading 'COMPANY WORK', in which you have already made two liftings and, of course, it is still not walking. Do you really think that this programme will save hundreds of thousands of workers from unemployment? Because if you believe it, it means that there's probably a problem with reality. Or do you not know that there is no care for the unemployed? And I'm talking about September coming in a few days. As, unfortunately, you are not aware or are not interested in the problems of people of hardship, as just yesterday, Minister, you rejected another proposal from us, in particular and together, for a number of workers who are unprotected because of your policy. And I am thinking in particular of seasonal workers in food and tourism who do not have the opportunity to re-entry and who because they happen to work in Rhodes and Crete, where the season lasts - which you know - more and more, have a higher number of subsidy days due to unemployment, over 80, you exclude them from receiving three-month compensation, which you yourself have established. So we brought the amendment to yesterday's bill and you rejected it. In what sense and with what measure? What are these people's faults? I think you are self-esteeming, Minister, your Government, that you have instituted Law 4635/2019 to combat the alleged work, and in fact three months before you had dismantled the AAR by abolishing the General Secretariat. You seem very proud, because you were supposed to streamline the system of collective bargaining. And how can you not be proud when, in practice with your provisions, you have shaped the right environment that leads to the protection of workers, by dismissing collective agreements, by strengthening employers' arbitrage, while basically due to the requirements of this provision, the recourse to arbitration has been abolished, to the great pleasure of BSE. And since we are not speaking theoretically, there is a tangible example of the outcome of your policies and it is no longer of the food-tourism sector, where for seven months four hundred thousand waiters and delivers have been in the air since the Ministry refused to declare the sectoral collective food contract compulsory. Of course, the indifference of the Ministry of Labour's leadership to extend until 30 September 2020 the collective labour agreements which have expired in the previous period. They're all in the air. At the same time, there is a question of increasing the minimum wage and postponed by an act of legislation. I won't say the voucher scandal. You all know that. You are expected to implement protective measures, to contain redundancies, to safeguard jobs, to provide temporary work and flexibility tools for businesses. But you are not telling us how to contain redundancies after they have ended in the short space of protection, because there is no specific clause and you have, as you remember, abolished the right reason for dismissal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Mulkiotis, excuse me for the interruption. Will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u13	I conclude, Mr President, and I shall use my dentistry. In fact, what has happened in the last four months is a continuation of the measures already taken. We said Article 9 of the Act of Legislative Action, which was unacceptable. It was abolished, but what did you do? You replaced it, Minister, by the permanentization of parttime work and the reduction of wages with the programme 'COMPANY WORK'. The institution of teleworking, as established, has created issues. There was, of course, employment, but there were issues. And now we know you're bringing it to the House. Well, do you not know that a formal - not consultation - should take place on these issues with the collective bodies? You don't do this, Minister. This is a spirit of insurmountable liberalism, which holds your line. Is that why you're asking yourself? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u14	The next speaker is Mr Francis Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a constant challenge. The course of the pandemic shows that we are in a second wave of excitement. Countries that until first had gone well, like the Balkans, are experiencing uncontrolled situations. Our hopes for this year were based mainly on two types of tourism: inland tourism and road tourism. We see, however, evaporating from health developments in neighbouring countries, from the discomfort of the government, from mistakes and failures in opening up tourism, its impossibility for adequate handling of emergencies and its reluctance to generously support the tourism sector. The situation in the Balkans makes us worry, not only about the possibility of transmission of the disease, but also about the companies in northern Greece, the tourism, catering and clothing business, which are mainly based on the profitability of the summer months by the tourists in the Balkan countries. We're talking about rain cancellations and irreparable economic haemorrhage. The crowd in Promahona, the only land-based point of entry from the Balkans, that you left it open, Mr. Minister, and the complex and costly control procedures prevent tourists. Also, recent complaints were referring to false certificates purchased by travellers as health protocols for entry into the country. In the Evzones, another gateway, which is closed to foreigners, is allowed uncontrollably to enter the border to go to the three casinos in Skopje, making sure to be a source of danger for the area. It's hard to withstand a second wave of pandemic in all respects. That is why we need serious and adequate preparation. We as a party to be effective and useful to the Greek people, contributing to a better tomorrow, insisting on the dynamic, responsible and productive opposition. We have tabled key proposals with the interim programme. Some of these have been adopted in individual cases, some have done a bad copying and others have not been taken into account. We have pointed out from the outset that the state is required to intervene fully on 4 May, and we have submitted, first of all, to Parliament, the national plan for the exit of tourism from the crisis with emphasis on tourism, workers and businesses. We have proposed a reduction in VAT to 6% in the focus and stay for two years and 13% in the tourist services and transport, a abolition for two years of the night’s fee and a return to reduced VAT on the Aegean islands, a reduction in the landing fee at the airports of the country. What did the government do? Reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% in transport, coffee and orangeade and cinemas and this until October. We have proposed the introduction of realistic protocols to the operation of businesses and transport, strengthening health infrastructure for visitors and workers' health protection, diagnostic tests at the country's gates. What did the government do? Late and unrealistic protocols with continuous revisions, sample checks only on tourists. We proposed a single internal tourism programme for three million beneficiaries with a budget of 750 million. What did the government do? A programme of much less than the circumstances that starts very slowly with a budget of just 30 million for two hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries and with little interest in business. Minister, the situation in tourism and the economy is dramatic. On Tuesday, July 14, the Association of Hoteliers of Athens, Attica and Argosaronic announced a study that the loss of revenue for the hotels in Athens and Thessaloniki in the first half of 2020 is estimated at 350 million. In June, totality in Athens was 5% and in Thessaloniki at 14%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All over Greece there are samples that the companies did not open. Others have limited their duration due to operating costs and huge liquidity problems and many are also for sale. So the forecasts for the immediate future are bleak. You seem unprepared at all levels and health and economics. If you go on like this, Greek tourism will be in front of the disaster and unemployment workers. Two days ago you gave your account for the first year of the government's operation and you are talking about leaps to progress in the annual report. The annual report, Minister, will be made in the autumn where the samples will appear to be very difficult there. Finally, in the field of tourism, almost nothing has been done to tackle this whole crisis and the problem of tourism. Apart from a bill of divestment, glaming and NOTE, which are also mediaequivalent solutions, nothing has been done at all. Proof by the President of the Panhellenic Hotel Federation, Mr. Tasios, recently made the proposal to take up 50% of the cost of the coronary detection tests, the panhellenic federation, because, unfortunately, the state did not respond to its debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u16	Here comes Mr. Panas Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, what distinguishes the political management of the crisis in the agri-food sector until now is the selective hierarchy, the proliferation, fragmentation and, ultimately, the lack of a plan to support the sustainability of Greek agriculture and fisheries. We have pointed this out in the debate on the timely question of the Change Movement before the coronary eruption. We are constantly pointing this out with the questions that we are addressing and with the positions we have put forward in the bills. The total absence of the problems of the rural world is really impressive. It is truly impressive to neglect the farmers on your part as if they had all their problems solved. Unfortunately, it is a fact that you are currently treating farmers as citizens and second and third-class professionals. The succinct exclusion of farmers from the measures you have announced in recent years, with the fragmentary and selective 'fly', I would say, which you have given specific, a few categories of farmers, can only cause very large questions. The crops, Minister, in many areas of the country are still being destroyed by the weather phenomena, and unfortunately, we have not moved on to the restructuring of the ELGA. To date, three and a half months after the impact of the restrictive measures against the koroni virus, there is unfortunately no substantial measure to strengthen the liquidity of the small and medium-sized producer. You have a fixed, wrong, in our view, idea that not all the categories of farmers can be helped horizontally, but only those affected. In addition to the data which they speak on their own, the whole agricultural sector has been affected by the restrictive measures of the coronary, whether directly or indirectly, even those which you consider affected do not receive adequate support. We are now in a position to judge the government's policy in the primary sector in this unprecedented period, which in fact the country's agricultural production needs more support than ever. We therefore call on the Government for its deafening absence from the problems of the agri-food sector, for the repeated effort of the Minister to button 'holes', to fill gaps, without real political will to support the farmer who is in the deadlock, and for the farmer who is also affected by illegal Greekism, by the low prices on the market of meat due to the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. In fact, we are told that the first exceptional aid for sheep and goat farmers will be granted at the end of August by the beginning of September. So there is a delay in delay. Not to talk about the fisherman, who has not been able to divert his fish into the catering business, since many of them are still closed or under-operated - we have not seen anything either there - and the farmer, who is trying to go ahead with his harvest, without adequate workers' hands, with extremely low prices on oil, has the fraud in honey, which, until now, has been called upon to pay a trade end. You did this for a year, but your pre-election commitment was that you will definitively abolish it. Since the first time of the crisis, as a Change Movement, we have proposed specific things to support the agricultural sector: advances to aid and income aid to farmers, professionals and land workers. We pointed out, in particular, the need to ensure the population's nutritional adequacy through proposals for the uninterrupted continuation of agricultural production. As a result, there has been regulation for post-emergency land workers, which is very well with the bill, which comes from June 30th, we will take them on October 30th, 2020. But beyond the corneal crisis, let's see what happened before the corneal crisis in the agricultural sector. Did the improvement plans go ahead? The new CAP? Not a word about the government's planning of a national environmental and climate plan, which should give farmers a role as a protagonist. We therefore call on you to take your political responsibilities in the agricultural sector. We also have the decision of the Special Committee on Agriculture and the European Parliament to approve in substance and to vote for up to EUR seven thousand for each farmer and EUR fifty 000 for every small and medium-sized farm. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. You have obviously not clarified what criteria will be given to this aid, because if all farmers are given, that is to say, six hundred and fifty thousand registered in the IACC, we will be talking about a sum of EUR 147 per farmer. In other words, whispers, i.e. whispers again. We have also proposed allowing farmers to borrow low-interest loans, as you have done with the other small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - which you have rightly done - with the recent financing law. A sustainable banking framework must be ensured for the farmer by broadening the scope of the beneficiaries, because at the moment 50% of the applicant farmers' loans cannot be left out. The EUR 150 million allocated by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Rural Development, as you can see, is not enough for a joke to cover the damage to all sectors of the agricultural sector, while from State resources we receive EUR 10 billion for the impending implementation of the National Development Programme. In other words, only EUR 28 million is available in the primary sector, which is 0.28% of the ESDP resources. Obviously you realize that this is a very small number. So, with regard to the funds allocated to the primary sector, since the present communications, we have the following: for agriculture and livestock, a total of EUR 80.5 million. Of these EUR 10.5 million in support of flower producers is expected to be paid, and in fact relatively soon. All other authorisations require the submission of a relevant dossier for approval to the European Commission and it is not expected to start disbursing before autumn. Support from de minimis unconnected to pandemic, 8m euros. It is supportive of other reasons and should not be counted on support because of the pandemic. You have given EUR 20 million for fisheries, but the process has not yet been completed and the resources concerned have not been disbursed. We, however, believe that the primary sector along with tourism is the country's driving lever of development, in essence the support to build a new productive model. Therefore, following our submission of an integrated agricultural aid programme, we would ask you to reply: In rejecting the proposal directly within a month of paying 50% of the single payment of EUR 850 million at the expense of the public only with interest, so that farmers can obtain supplies to continue producing them. In the total payment of income support for farmers and fishermen by the activation of the de minimis mechanism, as is done in most European countries. The refusal to introduce agricultural oil for the reduction of production costs and the non-guarantee by the State of loans to finance the production process, using the resources of the EUR 460 million returned by the European Union for pasture land. In this context, Minister, we need to look at the agricultural sector very substantially, as when we talk about the country's development from now on, there is a need for substantial moves and results which we need to see right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor. Obviously, Mr. Poula, you will also use the time of dentistry, so I will give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let's start with some generally accepted assumptions: the coronary pandemic is here to stay. Its consequences are profound and radically affect everything, from the way of social behavior and personal hygiene to the global economy. The need to prevent public health leads to the reduction of self-evident activities of economic and commercial life by creating chain reactions to recession, a reduction in incomes and a slowdown in backward national economies. Of course, every state and every national economy has its own tolerance to this epidemiological crack test. We have been in a much more favourable situation since 2009 when we have dealt with all the consequences of the economic crisis. Now there is a European support mechanism, surpluses and not deficits, even though they are bloody by the vulnerability of the Greek people, and not the product of investment and development and national solidarity instead of the movement of 'indignant' and 'plan'. Mostly, however, your government has the luxury of time, as management of the first phase of the pandemic gave it plenty of time to do so. That is to say, on the one hand, to shield the economy against the economic consequences of pandemic and, on the other, to prepare for society to face a second, perhaps more powerful and wider wave of cases. Unfortunately, both are treated by your Government in terms of communication and projection that is not zeroed, in no case is enough. Contrary to what the well-known media show, you go day by day and guided by "seeing and doing" on the basis of a conservative and budgetaryly inadequate economic agenda, so without a programme. In the field of the economy you have shown slow reflexes and revolvers, effectively leaving the country's productive tissue on the ground throughout the lockdown period, but then on. You've put in and removed SAR from the affected operations. They got salted with vouchers. EUR 800 affected production teams and professionals have remained outside the aid, such as farmers on the popular markets and certain categories of workers in tourism. Already one step before the end of the obligation to submit tax declarations, we do not know what is going to happen with the advance payment of tax, the end of the trade and the contribution of solidarity. On the one hand, you open the door to tourism in countries with a large number of cases and on the other, do not carry out adequate control of tourism at the entrance gates of the country. Finally, what do you ask the citizens and who will say responsiblely at the time when you have abolished the daily information about the coronary? To reduce reactions, you do not leave promises of supposed recovery in 2021 with funds from the European Union Recovery Fund. All we do not know is whether this will eventually be created, when, under what conditions and how it will work. The consequences of the wrong signals you emigrate to the economy, to tourism, to the primary sector and to the productive base of the country are widened by the incomplete preparation of society to deal with the second phase of the pandemic. Already a large proportion of the citizens think that the risk of pandemic has passed. All this shows that you do not have a national integrated pandemic response plan. We suggest: Strict and not sample check at the entrance gates, tracking and tracking asymptomatics, compulsory use of the mask and returning the daily scientific information, the activation of an information campaign costing the Greek state 20 million euros, timely planning for our daily life from September. What about the schools? How will public services work? How are we going to be on public transport? To meet health requirements in materials by strengthening domestic production of personal protective equipment and medical equipment. It is incomprehensible in a potential coronary wave to expect masks from China. The creation of a stable structure in each health region, which either at hospital level or at health centre level, is involved in the conduct of diagnostic tests to ensure that cases are treated. The creation of a single epidemic management centre, which will operate on a permanent basis, will monitor the epidemiological profile of each county and address the problem depending on local data. Finally, strict control over the implementation of measures, not punishing them, but in order to protect our health acquis. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not get the government to its achievements within a year of governance in the field of health. Although you have used the donations to present a project, the truth is that you are missing the recruitments. ID without permanent staff is closed. The state budget for public health expenditure is still one of the lowest in Europe. We call for a stronger national health system, with political consensus and cross-party agreement and real care for the creation of public health worthy of the heavy taxpayer Greek citizen. It is only through health that the recovery of the economy passes. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a spiral of developments from which no communication shield can protect us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u20	We shall proceed to the next speaker, the last speaker from the group of honourable Members, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I'll speak from my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u22	As you wish. You'll make use of your dentistry, obviously. I'm saying this so I can put in a single year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u23	The act will show it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u24	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, by succeeding Mr Poulas, I can only remind you that the Change Movement, in the first quarter of January, when he was in danger of being in danger of being superfluous or in danger, tabled a question, signed by Mr Poulas and myself, on the danger that when deaths worldwide were nine, before Yuhan even closed down, before the World Health Organisation was doing well. What did we ask then? Preparing the health system, hospitals, supplies of protective equipment - there were no masks, there were no production in Greece, so in the first phase the mask was not compulsory - and of course control at the gates of entry - exit, preparation and cooperation with the scientific community. We did so in time because we - and this is what our whole course shows - are making a responsible opposition aimed at dealing with the problems, because if these are not obviously being dealt with by the citizen. We are making a fertile opposition because we want to help find solutions. We are not investing in the destruction or failure of measures, as others do. That is why all our proposals were made before government decisions were taken. The program for a living economy, for an upright society, we submitted it before your decisions and not after. The Civic Opposition came after and testified. How nice and easy, afterward, to see what the other parties have proposed, to see what the government has proposed and to say: 'They'! The circumstances are special. The world really cannot withstand after ten years of crisis the consequences of another crisis beyond what we are already in its circle. The return to normality doesn't exist. There's no reason the normality of the one we had in mind. The new risks, the new conditions lead to the need for the economy and society and the public to adapt to the new conditions with reforms and changes, to meet the new needs that come. They've come, we've been knocked at the door, they're present. It does not mean that the rules of teleworking, telecommunications and teletraining have not already been established. These are three main areas in which you have failed, which have also been analogous to a different text, of course. Another is an economic scandal, another is a scandal in relation to the rights and protection of personal data. It is the other scandal that is paid by the workers who, instead of eight hours, work 12 hours and 14 hours. It is the area where the citizens say that the government has done very well. That's why I never believe my polls. Did you do something to telework, and we didn't find out? People work 12 hours. I would therefore like to say that the changes and reforms must now be aimed at making use of our potential in the new conditions, with people in mind - refocusing on their health, welfare and social policy, which must, of course, be based on sustainable development. There can be no sustainable development. Speaking of sustainable development, we believe sustainability and with regard to reproduction, economic data, and environmental protection. If there is no social policy, too. So we need to combine these two, sustainable development and social policy. We put forward these proposals and believe that the measures that you have taken some, few, have been in the right direction, but most of them have been ineffective and much more of them do not exist in many areas. Do we have possibilities? Why do we always say "children, where do we get the money?". To make a comparison with 2009. In 2009 we had huge deficits of 15% and now we have surpluses, bloody surpluses, as I say, of SYRIZA's overtaxation, but there are surpluses. We have a Europe that doesn't care, like 2009, but it comes today and says: The Recovery Fund 32 billion. And not only, but it facilitates the implementation of the ESDP, it has decided 'SURE', it has given all the preconditions. And the third and most important, and I will close with that, we have a different political climate. There's no division of 2010 now. They are not the ones who are struggling to face the crisis from outside, and the others who have fought against the crisis. Everyone is now aware, regardless of the populist that many times are making use of to show that they are saying something and doing something, that we now have to face this crisis so that it does not come in great depth and that people do not pay it. Because we're going to have a recession. It's not possible we don't have one. But under the conditions that exist and taking into account that this is a serious risk and the problem is not only national, as it was not in 2009, I say that it depends on the efficiency of the government - we support this - how much the depth of the crisis will be. In other words, if it is going to be a recession of 2%, 3% or 13%, it depends on the use of resources, it depends on government policy. That is why we have tabled the question of the lack of measures, their ineffectiveness, in order to shake you down. Now is the time to make good decisions. In September it will be late, we will already have entered the heart of the crisis. We are appalling the alarm as it was on January 15, when they laughed when we tabled the question, unique and first in all the parliaments of Europe, about the danger that comes to the coronary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u26	The course of the speeches of the honourable Members has been completed. We will give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, who will answer the question on the part of the Government. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me start by saying that - we also made a statement yesterday - the political leadership of the Treasury condemns yesterday's appalling, violent attack by civilians at the expense of employees of the Kosani DU at the time of their work. The state is standing on the side of the attack victims and will immediately take all necessary steps to prevent incidents being repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read with great attention the topical and urgent question from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party, and I have listened with particular attention to the position of colleagues. What I did not hear is how much the measures cost, how much the overall proposal of the Change Movement is being costed. And, of course, because many people have said - all the speakers - that the draft of the Change Movement was complete and documented, I am tabling the three updates of the plan as they were tabled and updated every month. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, this shows the dynamics of developments, as does the Greek Government. The horn pandemic caused an unprecedented crisis throughout the planet. Even today, as was quite rightly said, its extent and depth do not accurately know them. We know, however, that its consequences are diverse and intense. This crisis can only be overcome by effective intervention by the state, by the responsible and solidarity of households and businesses, and by brave decisions at national and European level. In Greece, the government and science, the state and the citizens have acted from the start with predictability, methodicity, determination and coordination. In the field of the economy, the Ministry of Finance has designed and implemented - I will be very specific with quantitative elements - a coherent, realistic, comprehensive and dynamic plan, which, of course, is evolving according to the different needs created by the crisis at every stage. Thus, within a short period of time, several measures have been taken to strengthen the public health system, to support employment, to strengthen business liquidity, to stimulate social cohesion. Let's run them together. She's fifty-nine. First, the suspension of payment of VAT for the months of March to May for enterprises, self-employed and individual enterprises and their regulation in up to twenty-four instalments. Secondly, the suspension of payments of instalments, certain debts, tax obligations for businesses, self-employed persons, employees and individual enterprises and their regulation in up to twenty-four instalments. Third, the suspension of payments of insurance contributions to undertakings, self-employed persons and individual undertakings, which will be repaid at a later date in up to twenty-four instalments. Fourth measure, the quarterly prolongation of payment of planned instalments adjustments. Fifth measure, the 25% offsetting of VAT with future obligations. Sixth measure, the 25% discount on debts and payments paid in the short term by businesses, professionals, real estate owners and workers affected by the crisis. Seventh measure, the interest subsidy for all business loans, which belong to paid branches. Eighth measure, the working capital under the Entrepreneurship Fund, TPIX II. Ninth measure, the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank. Tenth measure, the advance repayable. I shall return to that, because there can be a very good dialogue on when to be granted and where to be granted. Eleventh measure, the immediate repayment of all outstanding corporate income tax and VAT refunds of up to EUR 30 000, which are under the control procedure. Twelfth measure, the monthly allowance of EUR 534 for self-employed and freelance professionals affected by the crisis on the basis of specific codes. Fourth measure, the monthly compensation of EUR 534 for employees affected by the crisis, whose contract of employment has been suspended in March - September on the basis of specific codes. Fourteenth measure, the monthly allowance of EUR 534 for employers with up to twenty employees affected by the crisis on the basis of specific codes. Fifth measure, specific compensation of EUR 600 for six scientific areas in April. Sixteenth measure, the State's coverage of workers' insurance contributions, whose contracts of employment have been suspended. Seventeenth measure, VAT reduction from 24% to 6% on sanitary products, masks, gloves and others. Eighteenth measure, the suspension of repayment of disbursements of information loans until September for companies affected by the coronary crisis. Nineteenth measure, the State's coverage of part of the Easter gift relating to the normal period of suspension of the contract of employment. I reply to the topical and urgent question concerning 'inadequate' and 'ineffective', I will see you shortly. Twenty-fifth measure, the provision of EUR 150 million to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to support the primary sector of the economy. Twenty-first measure, the introduction of a licence and special purpose compensation for employees with children in schools, and then schools were closed. Twenty-second measure, the possibility for each worker to be able to work parttime for two weeks per month. Twenty-third measure, the prolongation of the standard unemployment benefit and the long-term unemployment allowance for all unemployed, who ended in March, April and May by two months. Twenty-fourth measure, the reduction of the Clowback in hospitals. Twenty-fifth measure, the compensation of passenger ships. Twenty-sixth measure, additional health costs, including new recruitments. Twenty-seventh measure, exceptional financial assistance to workers in hospitals, EAEC, EAEC and Civil Protection. Twenty-eighth measure, the extraordinary costs to all ministries for the supply of health material. Twenty-seventh measure, suspensions of payments of cheques of undertakings belonging to the affected by the SAR crisis for seventy-five days. In the present case, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000. The second measure is to maintain the lowest HPAI, as was the case last year. Third, the deferral of the calculation of objective prices that maintains a number of taxes unchanged. Thirty-fourth measure, the allocation of ten million euros to the Ministry of Culture to strengthen the cultural sector. Thirty-fifth measures, the 40% reduction for business leases affected by the crisis, from March to August. Thirty-sixth measure, the 40% reduction in the number of employees suspended and the renting of immovable property to cover the housing needs of students who are dependent children. Thirty-seventh measure, the suspension of a tax obligation for owners of immovable property who receive a reduced rent from March to June. Thirty-eighth measure, the tax deduction in the form of compensation for owners of immovable property who receive a reduced rent from March to August. Thirty-ninth measure, compensation to municipalities for coronary damages. Forty-fifths, the reduction in VAT on transport for the period June to October. Forty-first measure, the reduction in VAT on coffee and drinks for the period June to October. Forty-second measure, the reduction in VAT on the tourist package from 80% to 20%, to 90% -10% for the period from June to October. Forty-fifth measures, the reduction in VAT on cinema tickets for the period June to October. Forty-fourth measure, the Ministry of Tourism's "Social Tourism" programme. Fourty-fifth measure, the OAED's'social tourism' programme. Forty-sixth measure, the extra advertising costs of the EOT. Forty-seventh meter. I'll come back to that, because Mr. Katrinis was right in his observation. The first home subsidy cost for borrowers affected by the coronary, the bridge programme. I'll let you know in a minute. Fourty-eighth measure, the reduction or even zeroing in the majority of enterprises - unlike it has been heard - of the advance payment of tax for companies affected by the coronary. Forty-ninth measure, the short-term 'COMPANY - WORK' programme, with increased cover for insurance contributions. Five hundredth measures, the coverage of the additional costs for the 'COMPANY WORK' programme related to the summer and Christmas presents. Fifty-first measure, the extension of the unemployment benefit to seasonal workers. Fifty-second measure, special compensation for seasonal workers in tourism. Because I heard that, too. Fifty-third measure, the compensation per passenger, 20 euros per post, for airlines in April and May. Fifty-fourth measure, the zero advance tax payment for airlines. Fifty-fifth measure, tax reduction for pilots. Fifty-sixth measure, to cover the additional costs for officials receiving the special allowance for suspension of the contract of employment for the Christmas gift. Fifty-seventh measure, the initiative to deduct research and development expenditure by 100% compared with 30% to date. Fifty-eighth measure, compensation to amateur sports clubs. Fifty-ninth measure, the cover of insurance contributions for the months July to September of seasonal employees. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the question 'Insufficient government measures', I think that fifty-nine more countries in Europe, as far as I know, have not been discussed at Eurogroup and ECOFIN level, has not been taken. Fifty-nine specific measures, which are obviously, because of the dynamics of the economy, we are constantly enriching and adding. To a full extent and to a certain extent, it is estimated that this is EUR 24 billion. Indeed, it can increase accordingly, as I said, with the development of the pandemic and the dynamics of the economy, taking into account the available cash and budgetary space. There has been something else and it is a reasonable reflection. It says, for example, the Change Movement: We proposed that you give direct 3 billion repayable advance. Yes, sir. And we will end up at EUR 3 billion. So you say - I go to the second part - that it's ineffective, because you're late to give it. If we then gave them, in March and April, the whole amount, I would like to remind you that we then did not have the convenience to make predictions like this, because on the markets we had not come out and the cost of borrowing was much higher. I'm closing my parentheses and I'll be back in a little while. So you realise that we would do that with the information that we then had available. I think we don't disagree on that. So we'd do it with the March evidence. We would therefore give 3 billion to enterprises that would have a very large reduction in their turnover in March. That's what you asked us to do then. What do we do? We are breaking this and constantly enriching and strengthening our arsenal by putting in the second phase April and May and the third phase, which will take place at the end of August, the figures of June and July. In this way, resources go targeted at the most needy companies. Answer to that. I'm trying to find some comrades from the islands. I see a colleague here. From the second advance - because we have to be very precise - they have been assisted so far - there will be more credit - fourteen thousand twenty-seven businesses on the Greek islands. Fourteen thousand twenty-seven companies have received funds last week from the repayable advance 2. If we went the way you were telling us, in Corfu there would only be five hundred companies repayable advance, much larger sums at that time. Do you know how many people got "return 2"? A thousand four hundred two to yesterday. A thousand four hundred two! In Heraklion Crete - Mr. Kegeroglou is missing - two thousand two hundred ninety-nine. These wouldn't take on the suggestion you had made at the time. Now they're calling because we put in the April and May evidence. We therefore aimed at companies that had a significant reduction in turnover in May and June. Can we talk to other evidence? The islands of the country until today only from the Ministry of Finance - not from the Ministry of Labour and special purpose compensation for workers - have received EUR 312.3 million. Of the two returnees and the special purpose compensation for the free traders have so far received EUR 312,3 million. Tell me when the Greek state has only given 312 million in a month and a half to the Greek islands. Aimed, though. That's why it's worth planning your actions. Now, putting on June and July, we will help even more tourism, even more entrepreneurship in these places. If we did what you suggested, the Greek islands would take zero, because we would not have the figures of April, May, June and July. That is why I repeat that the structure of the measures and the distribution of the measures must be very careful. Let me also remind you of something that we are forgetting, apart from the fact that costs have not been heard, nor have I seen in the three programmes you have announced. These fifty-nine meters have been implemented so far and we have implemented them without even 1 euro being disbursed from European funds! Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well what is going on in Europe and how resources are being disbursed. We have been relying solely on our own powers, but ensuring that we keep fuel for the phase of the recovery of the economy. Obviously today I'm talking to you on different terms than I would have spoken to you two months ago. We have, meanwhile, strengthened our cash reserves, coming out twice successfully on markets and EUR 5 billion borrowers. We have increased the issue of interest rates of different maturitys, at the cost of borrowing corresponding to the pre-currency period, taking another EUR 2 billion, additional EUR 7 billion that was unknown if we could take them at the start of the health crisis. That is why we should be very careful about the use of cash. As a result of all this - because Mr Loverdes knows very well and we have spoken to the Greek Parliament several times, he is constantly asking for information and I am very open to it - it is the cash available state and general government institutions today to be at EUR 31 billion, despite the large support package that we received. Why? For we are doing all this for the fifty-nine meters, but at the same time, we are strengthening our arsenal. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In addition, Mr Scandalides said quite rightly - the implementation of the budget is deficient in revenue. But in relation to the initial estimates we had made to shrink revenues on a monthly basis, compared to the targets, by 40%, we were better off. The overall implementation is therefore satisfactory in view of the circumstances, and we believe that soon European funds will be started for the co-financed projects, as well as revenue from the other European sources created, such as the 'SURE' programme and the European Investment Bank's Pan-European Guarantee Fund. For liquidity issues and full analysis of TPIX II in my dentistry. You will, however, allow me to announce today a programme which, for the first time, implements a Greek government - many times, like today, I have been asked by Mr Katrinis for this - after expressing my thanks to the private debt secretariat of the Ministry of Finance for the systematic and serious work he has done with many other agencies and the institutions to complete it. Today, therefore - and will be introduced to the Greek Parliament for vote - we have a new programme, the GEOFYRA programme. With this programme we have been subsidising for nine months all housing and business loans, with mortgage on first residence, all those affected by the coronary. The beneficiaries of the programme are enlarged in relation to the first home protection programme we found from the previous government. This includes natural persons, workers in affected sectors, unemployed persons receiving exceptional support, free professionals in affected sectors, natural persons with a significant reduction in their monthly salary, professionals with a reduction in their commercial activity, i.e. they have a VAT reduction of more than 20%, taking into account the second quarter of 2020 in relation to the second quarter of 2019. Beneficiaries of the aid in the form of the repayable advance shall be the natural persons covered by the mechanism to strengthen the employment of «PRODUCT» and the owners of immovable property receiving a reduced rent. For all these categories of people affected, we are granting a subsidy - take care of a subsidy - for both serviceable and non-persistent loans. I would remind you that the former government's programme had only non-performing loans up to 31-12-2018. In detail, for the loans served for the first time government helps our consistent compatriots. We are subsidising the monthly dose with 90% in the first quarter, with 80% in the second quarter and 70% in the third from the third. The state comes arrogant to the citizens affected by the coronary crisis. The conditions, namely eligibility criteria, are the value of their main residence not exceeding EUR 300,000, the balance of the loan not exceeding EUR 300,000 per bank, family income not exceeding EUR 57 000, deposits not exceeding EUR 40,000 and total real estate not exceeding EUR 600,000. For loans in this category, the monthly ceiling may be up to EUR 600. For the first time, the state rewards consistency and stands next to consistent borrowers for nine months. For non-performing loans, including loans recently settled, we are subsidising the monthly instalment of 80% in the first quarter, 70% in the second quarter and 60% in the third quarter. For loans in this category, the conditions, i.e. eligibility criteria, are strengthened in relation to the previous government's programme. Hold on to differences: The value of the main home does not exceed EUR 250,000, the balance of the loan not exceeding EUR 250,000 - it was EUR 130,000 in the previous per bank programme - family income not exceeding EUR 45 000 - was EUR 36 000 in the previous programme - the deposits not exceeding EUR 25 000 - was EUR 15 000 in the previous programme - the total real estate not exceeding EUR 500,000, which was EUR 280,000 in the previous programme. For loans in this category, the monthly ceiling may be up to EUR 500. Finally - third category - for unsecured loans, but in addition, we provide a subsidy for the purpose, obviously, of not auctioning in the next few months. In other words, we are subsidising the monthly dose at 60% in the first quarter, 50% in the second quarter and 30% in the first quarter. The conditions are the value of the main home not to exceed EUR 200,000, the balance of the loan not to exceed EUR 130,000 per bank, family income not to exceed EUR 36 000, deposits not to exceed EUR 15 000 and total real estate not to exceed EUR 280,000. For loans in this category, the monthly ceiling may be EUR 300. In other words, for the first time the state is coming and standing close to the citizens, not only the'reds', but also the 'green'. The budget takes on board a portion of the weight for all the citizens affected by the coronary and have these characteristics. Applications shall be submitted electronically to a specific platform from the beginning of August until 30 September 2020. This programme achieves multiple objectives that we have set as the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u28	What's the cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u29	Depends on how many people come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u30	Approximately...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u31	We've approached, obviously. We appreciate that this cost could be about EUR 300 million, but we need to see how many people get in. And it's the distribution between 2020 and 2021. Because the programme is developing for next year and has three different categories. It has been incorporated into the package of the fifty-nine measures that I have told you before. It was one of the fifty-nine, and I told you I'd analyze it. It's within costing the measures. What are the objectives and what we are achieving: They are being rewarded - I stress it for once - for the first time consistent borrowers with service loans. It supports all the borrowers affected by the economic crisis and have a non-performing loan, even after the end of 2018. What some ask to extend after July only covers red loans up to 31-12-2018. We are therefore giving solutions to a group of borrowers left by the previous government without any protection. Bilateral agreements with financial institutions and debt management companies shall be encouraged and strengthened. It is recalled that, from July 2019 until the end of May 2020, some two hundred and fifty thousand housing, consumer and business loans amounting to EUR 12 billion have been successfully regulated. It is noteworthy that the loan and credit management companies provide debt write-offs to about eight of the ten loans they regulate. In addition, the culture of payments is cultivated with the practical support of the state, since we are subsidising an important part of the monthly instalment of the loan. Did you tell me when we talked about it "will be over 50%?" And I told you about the percentages of 90% in the first quarter for the consistent borrowers. In other words, for a quarter essentially the state pays the entire dose of the citizen. This means 'the state close to the citizen'. It prevents the misuse of the new framework by strategic malpractices. The risk of creating a new generation of red loans is limited because of the pandemic's crisis and social cohesion is strengthened, as multiple borrowers are covered in relation to the previous government framework. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, the health crisis is a dynamic situation which creates different needs at every stage of the crisis. Therefore, our own contributions cannot be static. We are constantly monitoring developments and we are therefore moving towards improvements, extensions or expansions of the measures we have taken. We have "nuclears" at our disposal, which we throw into battle when and where necessary, bearing in mind that there may also be additional needs in the second semester, which we are obviously in a position to meet. I believe that by plan, faith in our powers, solidarity and cohesion we can achieve it and we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the cycle of intervention by the Parliamentary Representatives, as appointed by the Parliamentary Groups, with the first Mr Loverdos from the Change Movement. Mr. Bukokoros from New Democracy will be followed by Ms. Xinoyannakopoulos from SYRIZA, Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party, Mr. Viliardos from the Greek Solution and Ms. Bakadima from Mera25. Mr Loverdos Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u33	I will speak from here, Mr President. I have made repeated references to the "triangle of the devil", as I have called it, the triangle of problems facing the Greek society, the Greek and the Greeks, which constitute a truly huge problem for the government, but also for all the parties in the Greek Parliament. Each party will be judged and, above all, the government will be judged by the degree of success in dealing with this triangle. Firstly, the COVID pandemic -19. Professor Charalambos Gogos a few days ago said the second wave of the pandemic is here. We know, because we lived in the first phase of the pandemic, that our economy cannot withstand a second lockdown, cannot withstand second closure, almost universal closure, as happened in Greece. So we have the beginning of the second cycle of the second wave. We can see from the outset that, although there are, as far as infrastructure is concerned, intensive treatment facilities are concerned, but at the same time, we can see that intensive treatment units - which have staff that are not permanent, are temporary and that, when they specialise, they must leave - in essence they are intensive treatment units which cannot function to deal with the problems. Why am I saying that? I say this because the second wave of the Lockdown-free pandemic means that we will deal with it - like the Swedes with the economy in operation. Therefore, infrastructure must be very well equipped to deal with this wave. We're in the summer, and in a week or so we've had a million more cases worldwide. In neighbouring Serbia a few hours ago we learned the dead who had the last day. Something is coming in second phase, which is very serious and we will be called upon to deal with it without Lockdown, which means that the issue of pandemic must be dealt with as well as possible, since it is a one-way road to tackle it without stopping the economy. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the prisoner, Mr President, the recession. Nor am I, nor do I want to be against the government or against the party that today governs as many negative developments as possible in order to satisfy us as a opposition party. We all want the problem to be as small as possible. Come on, it's not! We have reduced revenues, which, when measured in six months, will be very serious. There will be a recession, it is predicted by everyone - the Solomonica as to how much the recession is not political - there will be a recession and it will be great and there are the special problems that our country has as an island country. So, Mr President, a pandemic, a recession and a country with many islands - which is the third sector, this is the third factor - the devil's triangle is that and it has both previous problems and pandemic - with its second wave - and the economic crisis. How? For health, we have given a dimension of what needs to be done. I stress, as a parliamentary representative, the need for the staff of the IFs, the intensive care units, to be permanent. We will support every solution in this direction, without creating problems on the part of the legal party, how you will do so. Do it as you can! We'll be here! But, ITH with temporary staff, with staff leaving in two years is a really deadly solution. That is something I want to repeat. Second, recession. We did not ask the government to list us the measures it has taken. We, judging by the effectiveness of the measures or not, made an intervention. Yeah, they needed more. But above all, Mr President, when you take stock of what you have lived for a few months, you can tell the Government to be more specific as regards the effectiveness and effectiveness of its measures. The figures, Minister, on small and medium-sized enterprises, say that eight out of ten cannot get through, have no liquidity, that the Entrepreneurship II and entrepreneurship III have not done what we - especially - hope that they will pay when these programmes have been drawn up, that there are complaints to all Members of the Greek Parliament, to their mobile offices, to people who have all the conditions to borrow, but cannot and there are people who tell you that their bank employees are told that they can affect the final decision, while their applications have been approved, by putting some politicians in intervention. We live these things, I live them personally. Whatever you say to me, the truth is on the side of what I say. They tell you, for example, that my own bank approved it, but the employee or director said "please call if you'd been ahead of it". So when the situation is this, I do not think you can get on with the adequacy and effectiveness of your measures. On the contrary. You should have diagnosed what the problem is, to see what the additional measures you had to take are. We are told by the Minister for Development that he has taken a observatory to monitor the functioning of the banks, to observe the course of implementation of the programmes that are open and running. The same is said by the Bank of Greece. It has been two months since, and there has been no one from the Ministers here, Mr President, to tell us what the observatories have noticed, what the problem is, and what the bank is located, if it is located in the system, in the small or which ones. Also, when we complained about something that could not be done, he told us outside of the official dialogue "Leave systemics, go to the smaller ones". But that's where it's going. There's a problem, and it's huge. There's a liquidity problem. When we talk about 'economic recession', when we talk about business problems, basically one thing we mean, Mr President, the lack of liquidity in the market that is deadly. Whatever anyone says, who wants to cover reality, the reality is not covered, Mr President. It's not covered! It is what I say and my colleagues have just said. There are problems. You're going to solve one, and you're creating another. We have raised the question of cheques a thousand times. There is no Member of the Change Movement who has not raised the question of cheques from this Step. The checks, Mr President, have two sides: the publisher and the bearer. You think the editor was protected, but his protection is not complete. We still have not adopted our proposal to extend the time of registration of a company that had such a problem with a check that it could not cover. In the sixty days of protection we have proposed too many times you listen to them, but you do not answer them. You do not adopt this proposal. But at the same time you are not telling me this. The editor was covered. What's the bearer gonna do? As for the bearer who has operated in the pandemic and has a check, which the publisher has properly protected, what will he do? How will the liquidity problem of him be overcome? In transport - I say one example - this is a brutal matter, Mr President. This problem has a brutal view. There are real companies that have operated and supplied food within the pandemic - to say something more direct to the Greek citizen - the market at this time. We are now listening to a measure. I asked you the cost. When you answer 'about three hundred', I understand, because I am fair, that it is a measure that can be implemented. It will, of course, also be judged in practice. It touches, as you said at the end of your speech, on a more general and effective problem, the problem of red loans. I understand that it helps the borrower as well as the banks. The Bank of Greece, Minister, tells you yesterday that there is a risk of increasing red loans. You have rightly said that red loans of 68 or 70 billion have been reduced to about 60 billion. And you had made a prediction that it could even grow because of a pandemic by about 5 billion more. This intervention is also aimed at increasing red loans less. On the issue of dealing with the red loans as a whole, as everyone who knows - I have not heard you say that, but I believe that absolutely - the red loans contribute to the reluctance of the banks to grant loans to beneficiaries because they are afraid. They fear 60 billion, they do not become more than 70 billion. And psychologically, banks have a problem and of course a problem with capital adequacy and all this is well known. The problem of red loans so far is really anemic. When you say "I still have 60 billion in my banking system", you say "I don't have a banking system that can function as the market needs it". That's what you're saying. And there has been a penetrating debate on the proposal made by the Change Movement for three years now on the creation of Bad Bank. The Bank of Greece tells you. We were called populists and impatient when we proposed it. The Bank of Greece tells you that, and the European Central Bank tells you. Here we have ministers saying no. The conflict on this issue of the Bank of Greece and the Greek Government has become apparent in this Chamber. I am pleased to have contributed to this controversy so that it can be resolved sometime, Mr President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But as Mr Scandalides said, our general rapporteur, when you start seeing these issues in September or October, will be too late. Now is the time to have the critical decisions on the most warmest issues to do with the economy. All postponed, postponed, as is the 'HERAKLIS', which does not "walk" in fact, is salvation in the problem of red loans. Mr. President, will you give me two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Loverdo, I wanted to tell you this. There is no intention of interruption, but you have the possibility of dentology and tritology. The positions of the other Members will also be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u35	I want to finish, I will develop my arguments in my dentistry, but I want you to give me two more minutes for two arguments and I will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u36	You're entitled to it. That's not a matter. Just know that your time is specific, in addition to the tolerance shown by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, thank you. After having experienced all the problems of the Greek economy - and I want this to be consolidated, I gave the pandemic, economic recession, the island country - that the committee of wise men will make us fifteen proposals. We haven't seen them in detail. I have sought the text in the light of today's debate. Not yet published. SYRIZA said something right. He proposed that this text should be discussed at the National Representation. We are adopting this proposal. That's right. But, looking at the proposals' headlines, I wonder what we did not know from these fifteen points. For a year you as a government, what did you not know? Don't you know that education needs to be improved at all its levels? What did you not know from all these points? Didn't you know about this particular proposal on the insurance she's making you, which she wants to talk about? What didn't you know? I have proposed to you, personally, in 2012, the creation of special chamber courts dealing with cases of intense economic interest. What didn't you know? Everything is well known. Your own Member, Mr Fortsakis, in the previous period of Parliament, has adopted the proposal. What didn't we know? I'm trying to figure out what proposals these fifteen are that we didn't know about. On the contrary, I see that waste management is missing here, which is the biggest programme that can be carried out in the country at the moment of immediate implementation if you have policies. I read the five parts of Mr Hatzidakis, and I actually raise my hands. Oshan, we must not be afflicted and troubled on our islands - especially in the Ionian Sea - by this problem. Oshan, the country must have all its problems solved. Osan, don't know where Tripolis falls. Ashan, don't know where other counties fall in the Peloponnese. Like you don't know anything! Five points, like we're in 2010. I wonder and we are also very concerned as a party. This concern was expressed in the timely question that we tabled, which is really complete. By listing the titles of the policies you have conducted for three, four months in a pandemic period without caring about the contents of these policies and their effectiveness in practice, I do not think that is an adequate response to the intervention of the Members of the Change Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u38	We shall proceed to the next parliamentary representative, Mr Bukouros Christos, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the fertile dialogue that is developing today, we have the opportunity to exchange views on how this unprecedented health crisis is dealt with by the Government, with the huge economic footprint that it continues to create and expand. But before we go to address this crisis, I would like us all to accept today that in the debate and following the current question of the Members of the Change Movement, we were told by the Minister that the opening of a great umbrella in the midst of an unprecedented storm was open. It is the "GEFTER" programme for borrowers, consistent and red, green and red. So this programme is coming for the next nine months, which is an unknown field, which one cannot currently calculate what the depth of the crisis will be and what the economic and social consequences will be, to lay down a protection net, to create a bridge so that people with a bank debt can be facilitated so that they can better cope with the difficulties of the time. It is indeed, from what we have heard, a programme which increases the number of beneficiaries, broadens the conditions for membership and pays a generous share of the obligations. These are the three features. The objectives of this programme really can be multidimensional: facilitating borrowers, rewarding consequent borrowers, limiting the risk of red loans. However, this measure serves to strengthen social cohesion at a rate of one percent and comes at the most appropriate time. Comparing, of course, with the previous protection framework established by the previous government is more generous, more extended and, if you want, more targeted in terms of time. Now it's the hard ones. In front of us are the hard ones. This aid hand is intensified by the government to the borrowers, to society and, by extension, to the economy, because no new red loans are created will be able to operate our problem banking system better. Ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, if you would like my personal view, the banking system will return to normality when the financial system returns to normality. And here we come to Columbus' egg: If the banking system does not return to normality, how will the financial system return to normality? It's a difficult exercise. It is attempting to find a solution to this difficult exercise with the financial instruments which the government is establishing. We must now come to the management of the pandemic and its financial footprint. First of all, as far as health care is concerned, I would remind you very quickly that five thousand recruitments have been made to the National Health System so far and are not recruitments which will not exist in the likely second wave of pandemic. It's two-year-olds. The government has left open at the end of the two-year period to see what real needs and conventions may become permanent. This needs of the National Health System will be judged. We cannot say it in advance. However, with these recruitments, the National Health System has been strengthened - I am not saying that all the problems have been solved - adequately for this critical two-year period of pandemic waves. The ICUs have doubled. Unnecessary to be, but doubled. And we are now coming to the economic crisis. I note from the contents of the question that you, as well as SYRIZA, are asking for all the money on the table forward, ignoring that so far the Government is moving its own powers - the Minister has told you - from the available resources and strengthening our cash through lending on favourable terms. It's true, because the government's credibility has increased. I have heard a number of colleagues say about the primary sector. First of all, the whole primary sector was not damaged. There were products that went very well in the crisis: citrus fruits, kiwidi, cattle farming. Some sectors were damaged. The sheep and goat farmers in the days of Easter, the fishermen, as you have said, have closed up the international markets. However, the government has adopted concrete measures. In order to be given de minimis, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, we must have the European Union's approval. A project for each sector must be set up separately. That's why there's these delays. The aid for flowers has already been approved. The aid to the fishermen is to be approved and the ovine and caprine farmers are to be supported. Will all the problems be tackled? Oh, no. We are talking about aid to cover some of the damage suffered by these industries. For the rest, for the workers, for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Minister spoke to you in detail and it is not just that he announced fifty-nine very specific measures. I would add that today it is being introduced into Parliament and the suspension of the trade fee for the rural world. That's 650 euros, too. Let's not underestimate them. I would add, if the Minister would allow me, that, in addition to suspending payment of the cheques, we also voted to suspend an announcement to the "TERIA" of the cheques that were issued with the date of the crisis and for the period before the measures were announced. This, of course, is healing for small and medium-sized enterprises. One who cut a cheque on March 15th won't be announced to TIERIA in thirty days. He also took the extension of seventy-five days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not want to be tiring, repeating the measures that the Minister said earlier. I would say, however, since the dear Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement made this reference to the Pissaridis finding, that what we have understood is that he speaks self-evident truths. The self-evident thing in our country, as you know, Mr Loverdo, often is a request. The revolution of selfishness is needed in this country. The Pissaridis Committee set up a front: increased productivity and exports. All the rest underneath are the tools to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u40	Finish, Mr. Bukoro, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this debate is fertile, but we must not in any case ignore the fact that a laborious effort is being made by the government in the context of a multi-dimensional, unprecedented crisis brought about by pandemic. I think that there is a household management, which is not based on'seeing and doing', but is based on 'we are dealing with the consequences of pandemic on the extent to which it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Ms Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, SYRIZA as a Professional Opposition, but also the other opposition parties, the period when the pandemic crisis broke out in our country, in the face of human life and the need for collective social responsibility, we supported the health and the restrictive measures taken by the government. However, from the first moment on, we have pointed out to you and warned you that it was very crucial to take those forward liquidity measures and to support the real economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises and the workers, precisely because the problem appeared. There is no need for anyone to be an economist to understand it. Experience is given, when there are such measures and such a closure of the economy, that there will be serious economic and social consequences. There are three data, Minister. The first presumption is that when the pandemic broke out, our country had unfortunately entered a material cycle, because last year, when the elections took place, the government of SYRIZA left the country's economy at a rate of growth of 2.8% and based on data not from SYRIZA, but ELSTAT, already in the last quarter of 2019 and the first months of 2020, i.e. before the lockdown at the end of March, the recession had hit our door. This is something which is not merely due to the pandemic and should not be the government hiding behind the pandemic, but certainly objectively the pandemic deepens the recession and creates much more difficult conditions. There is a second pretext on the basis of which we are criticising, and it is a criticism that we are also making with proposals. It is not just a criticism of opposition or of a micropolitical nature. Our criticism is that there is the possibility - and you yourself referred to cash in cash and much more now, according to your speech, as more European funds are released - to make far more brave decisions. Two interpretations can be given. One interpretation is an interpretation of philosophy, namely that there is an ideological insistence on a free market, on non-real intervention. We are also making the interpretation - disprove us, but the results there lead us - that you are collectively judging as government - I am not talking about you personally - as an opportunity for this crisis to be a restructuring of entrepreneurship against small and medium-sized enterprises and in the broadest sense of the middle class in favour of large and strong groups and businesses, but certainly - and this started from the next election - a dismantling of industrial relations. That's the one interpretation. The other interpretation is a lack of plan, inertia, embarrassment in the face of developments. Unfortunately, we see this in some areas in a clear way, such as tourism. The Members of the Change Movement have also mentioned earlier - I do not want to dwell any further - on the repatriations that exist there and where the tourist regions of our country and our islands already live. I'm coming to third place. I have listened with great interest to the very serious presentation you made of 59 meters. The issue, Minister - and I imagine that this is the crucial thing for you to let us know - is what the results of these measures are, namely, that we become specific. How much are the bouquets on the market right now? The unemployment that's been launched? What was the success of the "tools" you used? Mr Brutsis himself conceded that the programme 'COMPANY - WORK' did not work. At the moment, there is no protection of employment. We have said from the outset that this will lead to the launch of redundancies which, unfortunately, you have already released since last August. We are currently experiencing the terrible precariousness of seasonal workers in all sectors of tourism, food and, of course, a terrible social and unemployment scenario in the autumn. The other tools to which you have referred - and that is why we put forward and give you the information we have to disprove or inform us - we estimate that it is around the seven hundred thousand businesses. Therefore, with the data we have as an economic sector, the repayable advance 1 has only been made by fifty-three thousand companies in the end to cover the second forty thousand businesses. As far as TEPIX II is concerned, our data suggests that it does not exceed the thirteen thousand operations. Overall, in other words, these crucial tools for supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the real economy do not exceed 10% to 15% of small and medium-sized enterprises. And here I want to tell you a personal experience, because I'm walking downtown, I'm going to my office, people are coming to my office, and I'm talking to me that I don't know, in shops they stop me, there's a scary agony, and everyone tells me the same thing. And because everyone says that, I think that can only be true. So everyone says that they are going to the banks - everyone says another bank, I do not want to go into the nomenclature - and in fact the banks tell them that nothing is going on, that either the money has been distributed or they do not have the conditions. Because this crucial European Council was launched in Brussels, which you have also mentioned, Minister, first of all, I hope and consider our country through the Prime Minister at the moment to be going with an active negotiation in order to guarantee both the level and the terms and timetable for the Recovery Fund. So we are clearly waiting for the efforts of some northern countries to weaken or create commemorative heresy through this wider alliance. However, I believe that what has been said by both Mr Scandalides and Mr Loverdos and I would like to insist very much here. We have first of all called for the full text of the Pissaridis interim report to be come to Parliament and, above all, we believe, Mr Minister, that it is crucial for the country now and for the credibility of whatever effort that the Recovery Fund may be made to be the result of a specific plan which cannot be designed only by some technocrats, no matter how worthy they are. There must be parliamentary dialogue, social dialogue, regional dialogue, and there must be procedures for administrative transparency so that we do not see again sad cases that we have lived with vouchers and various other European funding. To close, therefore, what is important today is the assessment of the measures and above all to take the timely liquidity measures and support for the real economy, in order to regain the recession and unemployment that is at risk from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u44	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is a red line between the government and the other parties, and this red line has the following characteristics: First, the cause of the current crisis, the coronary and its consequences. The coronary accelerated a process of manifesting the capitalist crisis. After all, before the outbreak of the epidemic all the estimates that were made were talking about slowing down the global economy and the dangers of a deeper capitalist crisis. We say this because you just want to cover up who is responsible and who pays, as you were saying in the past, in the previous crisis, that it was a crisis of casino capitalism, of state debt and a number of other issues, impacts, but not the substance. The second element of convergence is the response to the new capitalist crisis. You're all talking about horizontal measures, that we're all on the same boat, that we all suffer the same consequences. 'Laos and Kolonaki', which our people would say, have the same problems, so measures must be common to them. But the Minister also presented a list of fifty-nine interventions taken by the government. What are you trying to cover up with the horizontal measures, with the list of fifty-nine meters? Who benefits from these measures? That's what you're trying to cover up. That most of the measures satisfy the needs of business groups. What is left of this package is given to deal with some of the consequences of the crisis and the deterioration of the position of workers, the self-employed, the professionals and the poor and poor farmers. That's a little bit of it. In fact, many times this small piece covers indirect support for the pursuit of business groups, such as the programme 'SYN - WORK'. What is it establishing on the basis of the substance? The rotating work. In other words, even more flexibility in the labour market, what capitalists want, not only rotating work but also a 20% reduction in pay. You spoke, for example, of seasonal workers in the tourism sector, who will also get something. So, what, Minister? You forgot to say that. They will take 1,200 euros for four months to live a year with 1,200 euros. And you forgot to say that one third of them don't get a franc, a penny of sacks. He won't get a third of seasonal workers in tourism for a penny! How will they survive? That's why we say they're not in the same fate. The example of tourism is revealing. The large business groups in previous years won over 120 million euros. They have, they can live their families. They have no effect. On the contrary, many of them are going through crisis situations in large investment projects in the tourism sector again. Seven major investment projects in the tourism sector announced the day before yesterday. Even more impact of the monoculture of tourism, which means that there are also the consequences. At the same time, you say the worker can survive with this particular situation, which the hotel staffer cannot live for one day. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] In this respect, we stress that not everyone is on the same boat. On the substance of the differences with other parties are minor differences, small differences in costing measures and how quickly or later these measures will be taken. And these differences do not deny the nature of the proposals you have as government and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, in other words how the business groups will be shielded. That's your misery and anxiety. But basically, while you are trying to cover up who wins, at the same time cover up and who pays for these measures, because the people pay them. For example, where will the money for the GEOFERA programme be raised, Minister? From the state budget, you say. Who makes a contribution to the state budget? The taxpayers. Who are the taxpayers? People's mattresses. 95% contribute to the total tax revenue. In other words, the people will pay to deal with the impact of red loans or the emergence of new red loans. That's right, Minister. The package 'GREATY' means that. That you will continue to piss off the people to save the banks and business groups. It's a challenge. Amid memorials, the people paid too many taxes. He also paid new taxes that came and stayed. At the same time, the business groups were exempted from taxation. They paid less and less. Two yards and two weights. And now it is actually the same, that is, you are milking the people to feed the business groups. We do not put in the middle and the European packages which are clear and undeniably going to the business groups. After all, the dispute that is taking place at the European Council today is about who will benefit most, which business groups of Member States will benefit more and who will benefit less. This is the dispute, not about the nature and toxicity of the anti-grassian package that the European people will pay for. On the substance, you do it to cover up the next day, what comes next. Because these measures, of course, are not of a temporary nature, as the Memorandum of Understanding was not temporary. So, through this process on the one hand, you seek to satisfy the needs of business groups, to shield competitiveness and profitability and to break labour and popular rights in this altar. Because there may not be a 'new memorandum', but there are reforms that accompany the European Union's packages and reforms, however neutral they may be, are deeply classic. Because the reforms, the memorial measures, have led to the work jungle. Because the reforms of the insurance system have led the people to work to the deep ageing and to receive hunger pensions. Because health reforms have led to the deterioration of the public health system, so that the business sector can develop, and today the public-private partnership process is moving forward. At the same time, through this process you also want to shield the system, through the laws that seek to "spray" popular struggle. But that's gonna stay on the paper too. So the problem - and I conclude, Mr President - is not the management capacity of one or the other. Because it does not change the mixture of measures, the class character of the measures you propose. In the JRC's opinion, the people must not accept to pay once again the 'broken' of the crisis. We are clearly saying that big capital must pay. The visible enemy is not the coronary. The visible enemy to the working class, to self-employed professionals, to poor medium-sized farms are the monopolistic groups, is this system and the policies of the European Union and the governments, which must therefore combat and conflict with this visible enemy, so that they do not pay again for the crisis. There are fighting targets to improve their position in conditions of intense and deep capitalist crisis and to pay the capital. And, above all, so that they can meet modern and enlarged needs, which means radical overthrows at the level of power, society and the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Viliardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u47	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's numbering of measures has reminded me of the EUR 10 in cents measure, so that more can be seen. Apparently, he thinks we're retarded. Really, in the fifty-nine meters he numbered, why didn't he put the 20m euros into the media to round it? As far as the programme that he announced is concerned, with a mortgage on the first residence, what we understood is that the rest of the Greeks will be lost. On the subject now. KINAL, PASOK, which, with the “letter there are”, misled the government in 2009, smashed all Greek as tax collectors internationally, led Greece to the IMF, participated in the crime of PSI, as well as in the signature of the third memorandum, which handed everything over to the U.S., asked a question about the measures of COVID -19, highlighting the proposed measures of its own and truly referring to vagueness in 2009. Two questions were asked by SYRIZA on the same subject, while it seems that the Central Left battle is intensified with the promotion of rich proposals, as if they did not know that Greece was bankrupt, as well as with selective amnesia for everything they have voted for. In this respect, KINAAL has proposed an interim programme, without any serious cost, which, from its question, includes the following: Firstly, support for the ESS, which is obvious and everyone agrees. However, it seems that it was not done to the extent that it would satisfy the health services, let alone after the importance that had been given to the subject through the projection of the 20 million SMEs, just to cover the problem that the Greek economy had already had before. Secondly, support for all workers without wage reductions, i.e. without the 20% reduction resulting from the 'Cooperation - WORK' programme, as well as the enlargement of the CIS so that more businesses can be covered. We agree that the programme is not enough, but we have proposed subsidising employment in areas where there is activity, not subsidising unemployment. Third, cover for all the unemployed. Here it refers to the three hundred thousand long-term unemployed, who have not been covered by the exceptional allowances, because, as the Minister of Development said, they are working secretly or 'black' and are doing it. We'll testify to it in the Minutes. In fact, however, this is a very big problem for the long-term unemployed. Fourthly, tax reductions and strengthening of business liquidity. It's right, but where will the money come from, after TELECH has already been exhausted? Proposals have been made for a hundred and seventy-five thousand loans, amounting to 28 billion euros, when only EUR 5.4 billion is given, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. However, we asked a written question about the precise analysis of the government's measures, because, according to our calculations, the EUR 14.5 billion of budgetary measures announced by the government did not come from anywhere. And according to the answer we have received, and we will be tabling it in the Minutes, it was indeed much less. Fifthly, a proposal for an extended internal tourism programme. It is right that the proposal, since the EUR 30 million given by the government is a joke, and it covers only two hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries, according to our calculations, namely just 2.3% of the population, and not even the poor, when it covers 18% in Poland. Sixth, protection of the first residence with PASOK's well-known "Kateli" that covered only half of the three hundred thousand red loans, as we will deposit in the minutes, and has been replaced by Law 4549/2018. In this respect, we have proposed from the outset and there is in our programme, the Greek Solution Programme, to manage all the red loans from the state, as happened in the United States in 1933. As far as tourism is concerned, PASOK says, we have become wardrobes with PASOK, and now we will remain with the benefits while they last. The Change Movement also refers to the reduction of airport charges, when it launched, by signing the third memorandum, their sale to 'FRAPORT', which is calling today for the public compensation of EUR 175 million due to Lockdown. Obviously, he suffers from selective amnesia, which we saw from his previous question about the superstition, pretending he had not voted for in the third memorandum. There's in the third memorial. As far as the primary sector is concerned, the 150 million that the government has given is very little. That is precisely why in our COVID programme -19 we had proposed EUR 1 billion. But who really destroyed the sector in the past? Who was ruling? In conclusion, I will say that the worst of all is the claim of the Change Movement that Greece is in a better situation today than in 2009, when its public debt will soon exceed 200% of GDP, compared with 127% then, when red loans are at 180%, compared with 10% to 20% then, when wages are 50% lower, especially for workers in the industry that pay 50% less than for civil servants - how is it possible to develop the industry? - when a GDP of EUR 60 billion has been lost over 2009, when the banks are bankrupt, and then they were perfectly healthy, when the hundreds of thousands of businesses are bankrupt, when the Greeks are impoverished, etc. It seems to us honestly unbelievable! It is a monstrous hypocrisy to claim today that Greece is better placed than in 2009. In relation to the 750 billion of the Reconstruction Fund, should it not first be agreed by the summit, approved by the twenty-eight parliaments and see the conditions? Incidentally, Minister, should you not have tabled a new budget, since the previous one is no longer valid, as Germany did? Germany has already testified. In addition, is it not shameful that your Government will oblige firms receiving aid for COVID -19 - such as the special purpose compensation of EUR 800 and EUR 533 or the repayable advance - to print, complete and display clearly the ESRB labels, which we have with us, where their non-compliance is punished by a financial fine in case of an audit? Do you support them with an NSA? Finally, if we put labels on them, why not put the corresponding European Union labels on what we have allocated to lenders for ninety years, without even being evaluated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. On behalf of MARA25, the parliamentary representative, Mr Bakadima, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the health bet of the first phase of the pandemic, with the support of all of us and, above all, of citizens' cooperation, has been won. Unfortunately, however, the economic impact of the coronary has become more obvious and it is true that the measures taken are not enough. If we look at what is going on, we will find that most hospitals and health centres in our country are subordinated and with old equipment, with the subsidiary doctors and nurses who have been recruited for this period not to be enough. For example: Alexandroupolis Hospital, where due to a lack of nursing staff, the waiting list for surgery has reached up to two years, the Xanthi Hospital, which has not even a molecular analyst for a coronary test, the Rhodes Hospital, with major deficiencies in almost all clinics but also shortcomings in medical, nursing, paramedical, administrative and much more. Similarly, many other professional sectors, such as retail trade, tourism, food industry, are facing too many. The list is really big. On tour we have made as a Mera25 but also by talking to our executives throughout Greece, for example, again to mention that in Rhodes now 20% of the hotels are running. Faliraki, for example, only operates three hotels. In Kefalonia, the situation is the same, as in Corfu, Crete, throughout Greece. It is now a huge proportion of the unemployed in food - because they are not workers - people who have no source of income and have been left outside the provisions and measures taken by the government. And it is true that the financial implications of the coronary touch us all, one way or another. As a MERA25, we are all of our main concern - and it should be - to support our weakest fellow citizens, we have drawn up a comprehensive proposal for a law on the protection of citizens against the effects of the growing crisis, which has been put into public consultation. You will allow me to address some of the main points here today, because we want and believe that it is always useful to speak with proposals, with which the government is likely not to agree, but we must put them forward. The establishment of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues is therefore a key pillar, while abolishing the ADP. Let me make it clear, however, that we do not want the GATT control to be restored to the Minister for Finance. We want social control of public revenue through a DISCHARGE. You have heard me and other colleagues from Mera25, as well as the President of our parliamentary group, referring to the DIPS. So this DICKEP will be made up of MPs, the basis of the real power of the parties, the judiciary of all levels, and confiscated accountants. Second element of our proposal: the creation of a tax and a customs academy for better training of officials and teachers in the public service. Establishment of a General Secretariat of Information Systems and Tax Software for the planning, development, production function and use of information and communication technologies in the services of the SUP. This General Secretariat will manage the information systems of all the services of the SUPI, including the tax software allocated to the ADP. Establishment of a balancing mechanism between private debt and tax, insurance and other obligations, with the system of financial transactions by individuals - public. So where is this system based? According to our proposal, the Ministerial Council, following a recommendation from the Minister of Finance, decides to open the procedure for the issue of intangible digital bonds - namely - to all natural or legal persons with Greek VAT, bond holders. It hereby authorises the GDR's bond issuing and payment control address for the issue of securities by the Greek State and at the same time instructs the procedure manager to enter in the budgetary credit account of the beneficiary financial units. Through the fiscal software of the Ministry of Finance managed by this General Secretariat, it is established on the relevant platform, in the system, an account of budgetary credit for each natural or legal person having Greek VAT. So the bondholders will be able to use these units to repay taxes and also to cover private debts, following the agreement of the other party. Let us not forget that we are not talking about a parallel currency at all. We are talking about bonds, and we think it is a very useful financial instrument for settling debts, a process from which all traders may gain. Establishment of a public limited liability company called "ATHENA National Development Company of Public Property and Financial Transactions", which will manage and exploit its assets, using public property as a guarantee for raising funds to finance. It is actually taking the place of the current surplus fund, but it will aim to make use of it rather than to divest public property. Establishment of a public private debt restructuring and management company to address the issue of red loans. The aim is to alleviate the banks from the burden of the NPLs, while protecting the main residence and the very small, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. In practice, the red loans go through the "PESH", helping banks to clean up on the one hand and "PESHESH" now acts as a bad bank, with borrowers giving an amount, which is up to 1/3 of their income, as the end of the use of the property. When they improve their financial data and may consider repayment of the debt, the amount they pay shall be adjusted. Until then, the percentage already paid shall remain in their ownership. It is worth saying that the loan "freezes" with this proposal and the borrowers save the interest on late payment, while remaining owners of the property at the property rate they have already repaid. Due to the pandemic of the citizens' exemption from the payment of tax and insurance contributions for the period from 1 March to 31 December and the suspension of recovery of certified debts and an extension of a time limit of instalments of the affected enterprises. Removal of the tax advance, which can be made by removing Articles 69 and 71 of Law 4172/2013. Although the tax advance is not something new, but it applied before the memoranda, of course it was clearly less then, we now think it should be abolished. Other provisions provide for the rationalisation of HICP and the reduction of VAT on the islands. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that only if we proceed to a comprehensive legislative initiative and not to fragmentary measures, will we be able to improve the situation for our fellow citizens. We tabled a proposal for debate fully in line with the European Union's conditions and fully in line with the Union's institutional and regulatory framework. We are here to discuss it and of course to accept any criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. We're moving on now. Members will speak from those who have a secondary right. I don't know if Mr. Loverdos wants to talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u51	I'm the first question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u52	Yes, you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Francis will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u53	Let Mr. Francis speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u54	As you wish. Mr. Frankides has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u55	I listened carefully to the Minister for all the things he announced, but I think there should be other ministers here, because the question is not just about one minister or only about the Minister for Finance, but also about other ministers. Because the area I am dealing with most, and I am responsible for tourism, I will speak only about tourism. The Government and the Ministry of Tourism so far prove an inability to relaunch the tourism sector and the economy effectively. A colleague from the New Democracy said that 'we are not seeing and doing'. Unfortunately, you're looking at him and doing with the failures and the wrong manipulations. I will mention the tragicly delayed and inadequate programme for the opening of tourism, the delayed and unrealistic health protocols and the recurring, the danger zones of the islands, the reference to dangerous countries of origin of tourists, the doubtful campaign of tourism 'MARKETING GREECE', the bourgeoistic programme of domestic tourism, the incomplete and unclear information of tourists and professionals in the sector. Recently, the failure to create COVID Hotel -19 and the problematic CYC for quarantine rooms in all accommodations has been added. There were problems with handling in the case of special traveller tracking forms. Result? Cancellations and defamation of the country abroad. The initial good management of the health crisis is at risk of sinking into the failure of the opening up of tourism and the economy. The lack of liquidity is stifling business, thousands of workers are driven to unemployment and families to poverty and despair. The subsidisation of workers in the sector without conditions and conditions is a request which should be met. We have made concrete proposals so as not to be unemployed without protection. We have tabled an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In addition, we have proposed a 40% subsidy for workers' wages for seasonal enterprises and for as long as they remain open, but without changes to their terms and contracts of employment. You, Minister, have set terms and conditions in order to help the unemployed in the food and tourism sector, so the majority remain out. The hoteliers that have been opened do not make the re-intakes that workers must again be 'in the air'. Even today there are professionals and workers who have not been supported. With this programme, you have found the opportunity to introduce smaller wages and flexible forms of employment. Minister, the crisis in tourism is profound and the shrinking of this year's contribution to the GDP of the country is a fact. The political leadership must, even now, change its attitude. Otherwise, the prospect of recovery and recovery in 2021 is also dynamic. Big crises require brave decisions. You need to take forward measures for liquidity, workers and businesses. We're not in 2009. There are conditions of social consensus, financial instruments, surpluses - even by overtaxing the population - and a attitude of understanding by Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Francis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just two words. They need fast and thin manipulations and leadership with knowledge and experience. This is obviously, at least so far, absent from the Ministry of Tourism and the Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the evidence that ultimately indicates the reality in which we have been driven from the measures taken and implemented by the government is vague. You told us about fifty-nine meters that were taken. But basically, it's not fifty-nine. These are three or four pillars and the individual states thereof. But, Minister, the suffering of the retired and the insured is growing. The outstanding pensions are increasing. You received some two hundred thousand unfinished pensions, gentlemen and subsidiary. Two hundred and seventy thousand have arrived. Increase in one year, i.e. 30%. Thousands and thousands are waiting for pensioners and even four years expect a decision that is not adopted, because there is no human resource to deal with it. This is not called efficacy. This is ineffective to the state. And you have a responsibility, your government, for this situation. I am sure you are not at all happy with the Greek Central Farmer Fleet. The loose ends of the Central Greek ECA Farmers for farmers reach about six thousand. Is that effective? What state is that against the insured? I don't think that's going to make us happy, and I think that doesn't make you happy. So EFKA has become the worst public service. Why? Because it turns out to be a make-up, since it is not even easy to measure pensions for pensioners. You are implementing a programme from which you have abolished the lack of a third pension, but you have removed the granting of the normal thirteenth pension, rejecting the relevant proposal made by the Change Movement. Your Government states that you have forged in the Constitution, Minister, in Article 21 the minimum guaranteed income, as a decent living net for the economically weak. But, at the same time, you ignored the proposal of the Change Movement to introduce a minimum guaranteed monthly income for the pensioners of the EPC and the activation of the new CSCE. You lowered the public social security system. You've created deficits. The deficit of the ECA, Minister, for 2020 is estimated at more than 2 billion. Also, the FBI eats the reserves. Where's that going, Minister? Where's that going? You are, unfortunately, preparing, but in a methodical way, for the abolition of supplementary pensions and for it to be replaced by a capitalising pension, for the benefit of all the few and at the expense of the many and weak. We have said this since February 2020 and we have seen the Pissaridis Committee prepare and propose the introduction of a capitalisation system to the second pillar of social security, with a view to privatising subsidiary insurance. A major issue is, finally, the decision of the Council of State, Minister, on the retroactive effects of pensioners, as it concerns only those who have brought actions. It is moral and fair, now, now, that you say - there are no halves and settlements in this case - that by legislation the government will include all retired people, not to have to resort again to actions at a cost, with suffering and all the relevant. Today, now, get in place and say what the government will do. I don't think that's something you didn't expect or have been studied. One year of governance is enough to show problems. I think you've given a signal more communication. The issue of loans and all further procedures will be dealt with and how it will proceed or not proceed. But what reality is it? There is the suffering of even these potential beneficiaries. We are here as a movement of change - and I conclude, Mr President - to reveal the difficult but also the dangerous prospect of work and the social state. We are next to the Greek people, who are affected at this level, in industrial relations and in insurance. It is affected by your own policy. We do not cry out, but we mention the anxiety of the citizens and the anxiety of the workers, because that is what both the Greek citizens and the Greek society need. And always, of course, we defend the real needs of the many, not the few and the privileged. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Scandalidis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in my brief words, because there is not much time, I would like to make a few general remarks relating to the objective of questioning and how the government responded to it. The meaning of the question was different. It was the government to come here and for the main sectors that make up the economy - growth, tourism and the agricultural sector - to tell us about the measures it has taken and what it is going to take. Your response was very specific for the immediate measures you have taken and for what you intend to take - and that is good - but, on the other hand, the absence of the other Ministers shows that there is no response to a broader context of developments that the government should bring here. And I would like to say here: I said beforehand, in my first speech, that political time is speeding up in such a way after the pandemic and its possible second cycle, which the need for structural and major changes in the economic and development path is now, is immediate, is imperative. And the government must bring in here not only a revised budget but also prepare a budget with another structure, if you want, for the next year, which will include both the risks and the uncertainties of the course, and the possibility of different ways of combining the rescue of the current situation, the part that needs to be saved, the restructuring that must take place and the major changes, in order to relaunch growth in a concrete way and to exploit the productive forces of the place, wherever they may be. And I will give an example of that, Mr President. It is the example of the great redistribution of GDP, which will take place this year's delay in tourism and the way in which domestic tourism is going to move. For example, the islands, which Mr Loverdos says and is absolutely right, are the ones that will be affected much more and there will be other areas of the country, such as the isolated villages that people will go to spend a few days in the summer. This redistribution at this stage is extremely important and has to do with a regional policy, which must come separately and specifically here in Parliament and be discussed in the context of a national plan. That's my confrontation with the Pissaridis Commission. It's not whether he's proposing things right in the general direction we're all talking about. See you all. We all know the country's comparative advantages. If you read the programmes of all the parties, they are almost identical in terms of sectors and objectives. What state does it implement? What budget does it fund? How does the government govern, so that the conditions for development can be acted upon? That's what we're talking about. And it's a big deal. I say this because it is very simple: when there is no answer, Mr Minister, you come with the fifty-five meters. Fifty-nine meters are fine. And can I tell you something? I've been used to you so far talking about ten meters. Today I was very surprised that you made them fifty nine. You like to be specific. However, fifty-nine measures are in line with the state of the economy and the market. So, what am I supposed to do with the fifty-nine meters, when the shops close one after another, when the bodies are squeezing - those who accept the measures - when people are poor and when workers are not sure if they will go back to work tomorrow? We are constantly talking about a constant elasticisation of work, we are constantly talking about parttime work, we are constantly talking about cutting every job, we are constantly talking about reductions in wages and reductions in incomes, and you come with your fifty-nine meters - fine! - and give them some help temporarily, so people can live. But, I repeat, neither the structures of industrial relations nor the development institutions operate nor do I see any mobility among the local authorities to bring new development measures, based on the new reality, because there is no direction from the government, because there are no ministries that formulate policy. There is a almighty office of the Prime Minister, which arranges everything from the beginning to the end. A country's governance is not an anonymous business. It is a escalating and decentralised process where society is involved in exploiting its productive powers. This is the angular question that we have in the face of the course of things from now on. And as regards liquidity in the market, you should go and ask the entrepreneurs, the small and the medium-sized, to tell you. There's no, they don't want to go to the banks. The banks have to intervene. It's not just Bad Bank. That's an institution. That's not enough, in my opinion. The government must take the initiative to change their role, give them another direction. The banks cannot continue to play this role. And you come with the fifty-nine meters and I see that you're doing fine. But the banks are making it easier for them to do better with red loans and to be able to operate better themselves. It's not enough to work better. They must change, they must change as a structure, as a function, as priorities. My concern is precisely about this, in other words between the return to normality and the change that needs to be made in this place. Regularity is to accept that what existed before is and what will come tomorrow and be happy to come tomorrow, it is enough for our macro-economic sizes to go a little better! Alas, if that's our target and our dream! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because now what happens: there are - and I will close, Mr President - two dates, Minister, for knowing them better than me. One date is December and the other date is June 2021. In December it will be the 'front' to the recession and, therefore, to the possibility of having done the preparation and the changes with which the economy will restart, which will not yet have taken the money that we have promised to be given to us - if we all hope that this amount of money will come, which we all hope - which you know very well before June will not be disbursed. And in the second half of 2021, three to four billion euros will be disbursed from EUR 32 billion. So I say instead of just making a bridge for businesses, making a bridge between the recession and the resources that will come. And it frightens me that in the NSRP - the current NSRP - 25% of resources have not been used up either. Who will absorb the money that will come and what speed and what state will make the investments? With the footsteps in the Greek or an advanced process that will put the whole society into the development game? You do not put productive forces in the development game and without democratic planning, there is no development. That is why the Pissaridis committee did fine. Her only good thing is that she's done her job very fast. I thought he was gonna eat us two, three months. Bring her here to talk to her and recommend to the Prime Minister that we have a fundamental debate on the relationship between recession, resumption of the economy, growth and institutions that can implement growth. That is the meaning of our question and you are making a very good effort. And you're doing well and you're here to tell us that you're going to do the program "Geefthera" and thank you for that. But it's not good enough. You need to rebuild yourself as a government as a whole and see what you are going to do with the country's overall course!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u62	Yes, thank you. So we have two possibilities now and it is Mr Loverd's choice. Either Mr. Loverdos will now speak and the Minister will close, or the Minister will now speak, Mr. Loverdos will answer and the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I think the first thing is better than not to quantify. I won't need any tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u64	Okay. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u65	Mr Minister, I was trying to understand the programme 'GEOFSRA'. If I heard you well and if I understood correctly, the property must be up to 300,000 and 57 000 euros income. As my colleagues have said, we will read exactly what you have said and we are reluctant to see what we think about the 'GEOFHRA' programme. If these two, which seem to lead to a programme costing 300 million, then we have to do a numerical analysis, an exact analysis, in order to understand how we might be afraid of an increase in the'red' loans of up to EUR 5 billion or even surpassing them and such a spacious programme costing only EUR 300 million. That seems contradictory to me. I cannot be sure and accurate to make a critical argument. But, in my attempt to diagnose what I have heard, I find this conclusion which, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, does not seem reasonable to me. It seems very cheap, very little costing for such relaxed and spacious criteria. That's the one. Secondly - and I am addressing the majority, as Mr Stagioras is not competent - we have not doubted that the number of ICUs has doubled. We criticise the fact that you have not yet predicted how to defend yourself, after starting the second wave of pandemic, with staff who do not have the technical and scientific competence to respond to the needs of an intensive treatment unit. I'm not a doctor, but because I've been a Minister of Health, I know that having an effective intensive care unit is not just expensive, it's difficult. The medical services provided there are very complex and need a high qualification of all staff and not just doctors. I am talking about the staff you hired, I have no objection but I have no specialty in these matters. His two-year term is a disadvantage. When the Opposition tells you that it will cover whatever attempt you make to turn this staff into permanent or do something else - I don't know what will look better to you - then that's something that should be done quickly. For example, this summer, do you train this staff? What are you doing? We have asked the health ministers several times. Do you try to be ready in September for something more intense than what the health system is experiencing now, in summer months? Thirdly, no worker must remain unprotected. You cannot answer here that these programmes are expensive and that they remind you of 'all the money, all the pounds'. In this very difficult period, you must have no worker left unprotected. We, Mr President, and Mr Minister, understand what a second wave of pandemic means. I called the donation policy, 'State wages'. I'm ahead of you. Can an economy with state wages function? It can't be! How long will it last? A month? Two months? Three more months? If what concerns us, lasts all winter, what are you going to do? What are we gonna do? It is therefore compulsory for us to work by combining - I say again - the devil's triangle, which is the pandemic, the recession and the specificity of our country to be island. The third point of the triangle therefore requires the two previous policy aspects to deal with the problems on the islands. Here, then, we do not do, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, his policy 'all the pounds, all the money'. We make a full account of the needs. Our political proposals on the subject are a full account of the people in need and the policies required. That's what we're doing. Don't even say do it all in a day. We say 'give us the strategy of dealing, which is not looking at and doing'. And when we speak, Mr President, about the economy, it is clear: in September, it will be too late. It'll be too late. And because their numbers you know better than every Member of Parliament and because you started your term of office showing an interest - in other circumstances - in matters and in the private economy and you were not confined to national accounts, it is time to come out of the problems, such as they will explode in September, October. And we do not see it, Minister, as a whole from your government. He says that the majority parliamentary representative, Mr Pissaridis, contains the text of the proposals of the Pissaridis Committee. Saying self-evidently, however, is a very serious thing in a country where self-evidently does not respect it. I disagree with what you're saying. Saying the self-evident means nothing. Doing what is necessary, as selfishly imposed, is what is needed. Repeating constantly that education needs to be modernised, that alpha must be done, that beta does not make any sense. It is necessary to do what is right in this respect. To conclude, Mr Minister, I should like to conclude by saying that the opposition has shown character at these difficult times. Mostly, our party did not exaggerate itself to proposals, it did not complicate itself in the difficulty, as other political organizations of counter-population have used to us. We have shown seriousness, sufficient knowledge of problems and suitability as a political mechanism, with regard to the proposals we have made to the government. National unity, popular unity, unity of political forces are unity on problems and solutions to be given. We've been through a very difficult phase. We were the ones the Greek people wanted. However, since September, from October, Mr President, when the problems emerge with the intensity and extent that we feel they will appear, we are not prepared to divide political responsibilities. We are not prepared to say: how many parties does the House have? One's ours. How many responsibilities are there for the government? Divided by six or five or four. The responsibility lies exclusively with the government. What it turns out to have reacted and did not react, whatever proposal she heard and did not respect, on whatever policies she made on a different basis from the basis of the needs of the people, is her responsibility. We will not assume responsibilities that do not belong to us. As a opposition party we have been very responsible and as a opposition party we will be looking for responsibilities since September if things take the unfortunate turn that appears to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u66	Mr Stagioras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I respect, appreciate and recognize the anxiety of the parties in the opposition and obviously the Change Movement, expressed through this question and the position of colleagues. I would like to thank you for the question and for the excellent dialogue we have had. But you will allow me to place myself on a more realistic basis, because I know that the position of counterpopulation is always easier on these questions. And I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, I never thought any of my colleagues in this Chamber were late, as you started your placement. I have tabled specific measures. I am used to speaking with figures and numbers - Mr Scandalidis has insinuated it, I will return to ten in a short time - but I always have arguments that the opposite side may or may not accept. And obviously, because we know each other in this Chamber, I am not used to celebrating. I didn't celebrate today. I imprinted the reality and claimed that we were set up and built a safety and security net over households and businesses. I heard Mr. Scandalides talking about redistribution. It's a fact. There's evidence of redistribution. But, at the same time, he said, 'What are we going to do when people are poor?' Here's an explanation. This means that you think that by measures we may not have a recession. If, therefore, we consider and accept all of us in this Chamber that there will be a recession, obviously a part of society will be poor. The issue is through the policies that we are implementing, to limit the adverse economic and social consequences. Because if Mr. Loverdos says, "Since September, things will be difficult and the responsibility is for the government" and you put the cubit on him no recession, obviously we are talking in other terms. But I need to figure out where the counterpopulation bar is. It says the Opposition reasonably, 'inadequate and inefficient government measures'. I think of the 'insufficient' I responded with the fifty-nine meters we have taken. That is right, however, he asks, 'is it effective?' I won't use my own assessments. I will use estimates that you have invoked relatively recently. I do not know whether they will prove correct or not, but let us have a common basis. I have the European Commission's forecasts. What did the European Commission come up to and say 15 days ago? That in Greece, after all, the recession in relation to two months ago that we appreciated will be smaller. At the same time, however, the European Commission is coming and saying that the recession in Europe will be more profound. Where he said that Greece would be the worst country in recession a month ago, now he says it will be the fifth or sixth worst country in the eurozone and the European Union. What does that mean? This obviously means that the measures taken by the Greek Government are effective and, obviously, the measures taken by other major governments in Europe - Italy, France, Spain - are ineffective, because this is where the recession is deepening, and here, according to the European Commission's estimates, the recession is shattering. I hope it is more, but at least in the question 'is it effective'? We have a comparison measure. We are the only country in Europe where the European Commission has said that the country will have a milder recession than the original estimates, and in all other countries estimates are more unfavourable. I therefore think that this should be credited to the Greek Government if we want to have a measure of comparability. Secondly, the comparison of effectiveness is, of course, what Mr Loverdes said - and I agree, I do have a weakness - the private economy. I have tabled specific measures. We will obviously not deal with all the problems. But are we close to the citizen? Shall we go for a walk to Rhodes? Rhodes in the last two weeks - when I say Rhodes, I mean DOS Rhodes and therefore the islands of the region - has been given two thousand two hundred ninety-nine companies a repayable advance of EUR 19.6 million. So, in the last two weeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u68	This measure has yielded. We did. And we suggested that you increase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Loverdo, we've had a talk about this. When did you propose to increase it? You proposed in April. What evidence did we have then? Only in March. The companies had no other information. In March they had. If we then gave the 3 billion to us, these businesses in Rhodes would not receive money today, because in March, or they were closed because of seasonality, or because of the fall in turnover they had in April and May. So it's very important to target a business. Anyway, tell me when the Greek state went to Rhodes to give 19.6 million. A colleague here from the Change Movement is from Corfu. A thousand four hundred two businesses, 12.5 million. Can we talk cumulatively? In Corfu, only by the Ministry of Finance "done" in the last one and a half months of EUR 30.4 million. It's 30.4m euros in Corfu. From this one cannot say that the Greek Government is not close to the Greek citizen, to the Greek businessman. I shall submit, to close this first section of my position, a number of indicators which demonstrate that the Greek economy is moving relatively satisfactorily, in compliance with the conditions. I will therefore present the cost of borrowing the Greek interest rates, the cost of the six-monthly interest rates - these are important to find resources, in order to pursue the policies we discussed a moment ago - the economic climate index that is decreasing, but we are above the European average, the consumer confidence index, the procurement index, the famous PMI index, which is about to do with the industry, which had collapsed to 29.5 and in two months it was up to 50. I will present the indicator of the competitiveness of the Greek economy, which is improving. I will table the index of GDP growth in the first quarter in relation to Europe, which according to ELSTAT's provisional figures - we will see the finals - the recession is 0.9%, when the average European is 3.1%. I will testify to the private deposits, which continue to increase in the banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u70	Where have they arrived, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u71	EUR 148,2 million plus EUR 13 billion last year plus EUR 1.5 billion last month. I'll also deposit the non-performing loans Mr. Lovers spoke about. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we don't triumph. I am just presenting and imprinting a situation in which it seems that the Greek Government in due course, as it has heard, has taken the measures it could take and is constantly enriching them, in order to be close to society, close to the households, particularly to the smallest and most sensitive economic strata. I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdos, but you came back a little bit on the issue of "GEOFURAS". Indeed, our estimates are at EUR 300 million. We hope that this programme will be exploited by the whole perimeter in which we expect it to enter. Exact perimeter data we don't have. It can reach the maximum of EUR 400 to EUR 500 million. I wish it would! But the exercise of how many eventually enter or how much perimeter is not accurate. When I asked the Greek banking system to give me information on what was the perimeter of the protection of the first home that SYRIZA had built, he told me that the initial assessments were for a hundred and thirty-eight thousand potential beneficiaries. Finally, I asked them how many people are and they told me that they were probably not more than ninety thousand. In other words, a program by SYRIZA for about thirty-eight thousand of our compatriots, and the perimeter is seen by the update of bank data that it was not for over ninety thousand and have about five thousand. If you want, I can give you evidence. I don't have much time for this. Mr Scandalidis quite rightly asked - he also asked questions not only about the crisis, but also about the post-Koronian period - when will budgetary objectives and budgetary rules come back? Here I would remind you a little of what you were asking the government in February and March, I think the Opposition, which is surely the Civic Opposition. You said: 'Due to the crisis, we should not have a target of 3.5% of GDP this year. Take it to 2%." If we asked for this, we would not be talking about all of this today, because the country will have a significant primary deficit this year. If we were already putting the bar to 2%, you realise that we would not be able to pursue an expansive fiscal policy of the order we are talking about today. Here we will go to deep primary deficits, precisely in order to respond to the problem that has been created. In 2021, Mr Scandalides asks indirectly - and rightly so - whether we are going back to 3.5%? Oh, no. It will apply throughout Europe. The financial rules will not apply until Europe returns to a stabilization. When will that be? According to the first estimates, made in the last Eurogroup of last week and by a recommendation from the Fiscal Board, which Commissioner Jedilloni referred to the day before yesterday, there seems to be a thought in Europe, which we support, the budgetary targets to come back when GDP in Europe reaches the level of 2019. This is not estimated to take place in 2021 and possibly even in 2022. Therefore, this means that there will be opportunities in the country to pursue the right policies without the high budgetary targets set by the previous government for the country for 2021, i.e. 3.5%. Last point: Restlessness. This is where I always like to update the data so that you can get a full picture. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou had no precise information and was not updated. Mr. Scandalidis, ten initiatives to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. I am used to talking like this because I want to be very precise on data and on initiatives. First: repayable advance. We agreed that the measure was successful. Let me just say that, until yesterday, they had been credited to the accounts in the second repayable not to forty thousand said by my colleague, but to sixty thousand eight hundred four businesses. According to today's figures, potential beneficiaries are eighty-nine thousand. Today, in two hours' time, I think that substantial sums will be credited to a considerable amount of this difference, from sixty thousand to eighty thousand. Slowly and slowly, they will also be larger companies that are most controlled. The aim is, with the figures, June and July - so to see which companies are actually affected in the summer - the third returnee to be the rest of the two before, in order to reach EUR 3 billion, to cover these operations at the end of August. We did the tax and insurance suspensions a second measure. What did you tell us in the House? You told us: 'But, in September, will the citizens be able to pay for these suspensions you gave?' We gave a grace period, twelve months of interest in '21 or twenty-four, but what interest? Approximately 2.5%, when today in twenty-four instalments interest is over 5%. So we have also covered the second reflection that you have rightly put as Opposition as a continuation and consequence of society's hearings. Thirdly, we did the measure for 25% of the debts and payments. It's got the measure. Fourthly, we made the measure to offset 25% of VAT. Mr. Scandalidis, a hundred and sixty thousand operations made use of the measure. They saved 155 million of their balance sheets in order to obtain liquidity in the economic crisis. Fifth: We made the tax deposit. The 100% tax advance, i.e. no tax advance, is in too many companies. Six: We made the interest subsidy. Now we're going to the banking system. Seventh: We did TEPIX. Some numbers have been heard. Look, I think we need to balance between the speed that the banking system must show - and we hope to keep up - and the possibility of the banking system or the one you are asking for parties to counterpopulation or some colleagues, so that all applications in the banking system can be accepted. I think you are very well aware of the Greek society, and you know that for a portion of the citizens asking for loans for very specific reasons, if these loans are granted, there will be'red' loans in a short time, so again the Greek taxpayers will have to help the banking system. We therefore need to find the right balance between the speed of the banking system and the security. In TEPIX there have been delays, which I think we have all confessed, but at the same time I have to tell you that there is an acceleration in the last two weeks. Today we are talking - in fact with yesterday's figures - seven thousand, ninety-nine loans have been disbursed. How much is that? One billion euros. So in July these seven thousand ninety - ninety - nine businesses, of the 12 thousand potentially beneficiary, and of the eight thousand seventeen seventeen that have settled, took the money. You should know that there are three stages, approval, compromise - which the citizen must also give - and disbursement. So we have reached a point which is more satisfying than it was fifteen days ago, but not what we all expect in this Chamber. Let's go to the Guarantee Fund. This was opened later. Five thousand nine hundred and ninety loans have been approved, and the impressive thing is that five thousand ninety-nine is for small and medium-sized enterprises of EUR 2.5 billion. Did the disbursements begin? Two hundred forty-six loans were disbursed, of which two hundred seventeen small and medium-sized enterprises totalling EUR 286 million. That's what happened last week. I repeat, I do not present an idyllic picture. I have an acceleration picture of the banking system as well in the direction of helping the real economy, along with the repayable advance we have already mentioned. Ninth metre, microcredits. I am very pleased that opposition parties supported the draft law, which incorporated too many comments as they were made and proposed within the Greek Parliament. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and on the situation in the former Yugoslavia. I therefore believe that, as well as what you said and asked me'reliance, you did something', through ten specific initiatives, I can prove to you that there was a considerable effort and real help in the real economy. Is that enough? Obviously the needs are many of the possibilities each European country has, but I never think the Greek state would have been so direct, so close to the real economy. And here we are, with the available tools, with new tools that I hope will emerge today and tomorrow at European level, having much more resources to pursue even more policies in this direction. Finally, in closing, it was made in the placement of colleagues from the Opposition, in particular Mr Scandalidis and Mr Loverdou, to refer to the post-Koronian era. Indeed, you know very well that I recently recommended to the Committee on Economic Affairs and I proposed to the chairman of the committee that we discuss at least as the Committee on Economic Affairs the country's development plan. To discuss in good time, early September, so that we can hear and incorporate the positions of counter-population. The next day is therefore important and must include not only increasing wealth, not only achieving higher economic growth, higher, stable, smart, inclusive, but also how to change the composition of wealth. How, in other words, we will achieve the productive reconstruction of the country to which Mr Scandalides referred, namely how the two components, investments and extroverts, are increased at a higher rate than the necessary increase in consumption. Evidently, consumption must be increased, because it is the most essential component of wealth. But the other two components should be increased much more. Here too, we should attach great importance to the achievements of the fourth industrial revolution, to strengthening the digital economy, to stimulate endogenous sources of development. Obviously now we will not talk about policies or have the time, but in a month's time we have to talk about policies. However, the axes must be the ones that have been tabled before, and the final choice has been made by the Greek Government, so also the responsibility of the politicians. Investments with emphasis on heavy industry, to stimulate, as I said, digital, green transformation, to change budgetary policy, to reduce taxes and, above all, to insurance contributions, to the implementation of the resolution programme. I would like to inform you that the process of exploiting the ports of the country begins. Something that the previous government had committed itself to is being implemented by the current government. Alexandroupolis, Kavala and Igoumenitsa. Today the process begins. We moved on to the Greek. Last week, we had a provision on this matter. To simplify the licensed and bureaucratic environment, to table bills, such as what we are discussing with the Ministry of Development this week or a new tax bill with some interventions that we will be tabling today in the House, including to attract pensioners abroad to Greece. We will be tabling other regulations that are particularly important for the country's development programme, and how we will better manage the Public Investment Programme, how we clear up public debts to the private sector, to the agricultural policy that has previously been put in place for the pension system, for the green economy. So, yes, we're ready to talk. We have received proposals, we have received studies. We are talking about this with the social partners. The day before yesterday at the meeting with the Prime Minister, we also had the social bodies to have their own proposals. We want all the agencies. We want parties. We must all do our best together so that we can build something that is strong and sufficient for the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. However, if I may, Minister, did you say that the logic is being promoted when Europe reaches the level of gross product of 2019? I think it's not a very clever idea. What for? Because Europe has asymmetrical economies and the crisis will affect asymmetrically in the economies. So, in my opinion - we will talk about it, I imagine, here - another mixture to start. We don't have to run, because Germany is going to grow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I just want a minute. Your concern is reasonable, but I think we are absolutely grounded by what we have taken as a Eurogroup decision in April. At that time we requested and entered the Eurogroup's decision the specific reference that does not only have budgetary objectives but also has rules. Why? Because it is the country because it is in a enhanced surveillance programme, one can reasonably say that it all applies to European countries that have rules and not to Greece that have objectives. Greece will therefore be treated in the same way as the other countries of Europe. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased When I say that there is a suggestion, so that there are no real budgetary rules and time objectives, I do not imply that after two years we will be back at 3.5%. I mean, then there may be the need for budgetary adjustment in Europe. That is to say, another to gather across Europe because of the expansionist budgetary policy and another to achieve the goals set by the previous 35% government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u74	It is understandable, but it is not only about Greece. It concerns both Italy and Spain. The debate on the number 24/13/26-6-2020 topical and urgent question is closed: 'Insufficient and inefficient government measures to deal with the crisis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS As the Secretary-General informs us, Questions Nos 913/12-7-2020 and 927/13-7-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Question No 914/12-7-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. Question No 928/13-7-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Because we have been delayed by the topical question, please keep your time. There will be tolerance, but not the tolerance I usually show. That's the point. We begin with the first under number 927/13-7-2020, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP, Thessaloniki, the MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Museum of Pontian Hellenism in the former Camp Pavlou Mela of Western Thessaloniki". At last, name it. He cannot always be ‘formerly Camp Paul Mela’. Let's call it Pavlos Mela or "Metropolitan Center". Mrs. Mendoni will answer. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I accept your creative challenge. It is in the hands of condolence and counterpopulation to join forces to give the prospect of this particular question. I must confess, Minister, that when it was tabled, I neither knew nor could I suspect that it would have this very serious topicality, because of the provocative and unacceptable decision by the Turkish Government to transform a universal value and important creation, in essence, of global civilisation in mosques. Beyond the historical and emotional value for us Greeks, but also for all Christians around the world, it is a monument belonging to all mankind, which has been included since 1985 in the list of protected UNESCO World Heritage Monuments. The absolutely inappropriate and unacceptable predicament of your colleague, Mr Voridis, to link the provocative and unacceptable decision of the Turkish Government to the closure of the Kemal Museum in Thessaloniki, to its conversion to a Museum of Pontian Hellenism, is precisely what we are stressing and stressing - I think you too - that culture does not use retaliation. The culture and monuments of culture are open windows for peoples, cultures and religions. When what you denounce as provocative and unacceptable and barbaric on the part of the Turkish government adopts it for your own practice, then you are like what you condemn and blame. That is why I will expect a clear categorical rejection from the Minister of Culture of my country of this obsession and persistence of your colleague, Mr Maki Voridis, who, consistently in his extreme right-wing past and at the extreme right of the present, connects the two issues. He didn't know and I have to remind him. Because, basically, the timelessness of the governments - which one government delivers to another - is what I would like to hear and respond. What did we leave? "We prepared" the next government with two former camps, the Camp Pavlos Mela in the west of Thessaloniki, where in March 2017, when Alexis Tsipras and the government of SYRIZA handed over to the local government a camp, which for thirty years remained untapped, raised the issue of the creation of a Museum of National Resistance and a Museum of Pontist and Asia Minor Hellenism. Also, when, on the other side of the city, Kalamaria, the beloved Kalamaria of Thessaloniki, the refugee Kalamaria, the valley essentially of the Pontian Hellenism in the new home, the refugees of Pontius and Miracian refugees were disembarked to seek and build the new life in 1923, they would have in mind, Mrs.Mrs. Mendoni, that they would not expect seventy-four years, as long as we and our generation, the third and fourth generations of the Pontians, for the recognition of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. "Dryings" of a genocide destroyed by the genocide of Pontiums, Asia Minor, Izmirs, Cappadocs, Istanbuls, Thracemenes are the ones that will include this museum. It wasn't just those two former camps that the government of Alexis Tsipras betrayed. It was and - I put it in the Minutes - the FEK, with the establishment of a joint committee, headed by the Deputy Minister of Interior from Thessaloniki, which will also take care of the creation, as Article 2 states, of the processing of proposals and the introduction of commemorative sites, thematic parks, in Thessaloniki and Athens, beyond setting up a monument, which will remind us that twenty-five thousand psycho-psychotes of refugees, victims of the Genocide of Pontica and Asia Minor Hellenism, were buried without a cross and name, with lime and soil, there in the area of Karabournos, Kalamaria, Aretsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u77	Finish, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u78	In closing the first part of my position, I ask: Does the Ministry of Culture have the political will - why is the project so large - to create, establish and operate a Museum of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u79	Mrs Mendoni has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try not to make the same misuse of time as the honourable Member. I think that the Greek Government's attitude to the moves of the President of Turkey is clear and clear and has been reflected at all levels. I personally, because you addressed me as Minister of Culture, have said in various phases that Erdogan's move is a challenge for everyone, because a monument of world value with very serious symbolism, I would say, is turned into an Islamic mosque, to serve the Turkish President's personal policies and thus to satisfy his inner audience. Therefore, I do not think that there is a need to question the fact that Ayia Sophia can become a field of party controversy. The Ministry of Culture since 2000 continues within the spirit and the letter of the archaeological law the care of all monuments located on Greek territory regardless of the time period. In this twenty-year period the Ministry of Culture has invested more than 50m euros in the restoration and promotion of monuments of the Ottoman period, from mosques, tequidae, mosques, mausoleum of all the monuments of this period, precisely because it respects the monuments belonging to the Greek territory in the same way. Now, especially on this particular subject, which also concerns your question, the use and emergence of the Paul Melas Camp and its super-objected buildings, is obviously a priority for the Ministry of Culture. After all, this was reflected in last year's speech at the Thessaloniki Exhibition of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is very interested in western Thessaloniki. As you know better than I am, because you are MP Thessaloniki, the region of western Thessaloniki is a very vibrant region with young people and the promotion and exploitation of the camp and buildings will upgrade the entire region. Therefore, the Museum of Asia Minor Hellenism, the museum of refugee is clearly supported and supported by the Ministry of Culture. To date, what has happened is with the funding of the SYRIZA government that studies on the first building, the so-called A2, the great building of the barracks, which will host the Town Hall of Paul Mela, various administrative agencies and in about a thousand square meters the Museum of National Resistance, have been completed. Something else hasn't happened. In recent months, therefore, we have always been in consultation with the consortium, which has been made by the Municipality of Thessaloniki, by the Ministry of Culture, from the Ministry of Interior, we have begun the study of the housing of the Museum of Asia Minor Hellenism, the museum of refugee in a building of either stables or prisons. We wait day after day, the Municipality of Paul Mela will tell us which of the two buildings will grant for the museum. It's a given that the museum will be put in place there. We expect him to tell us which of the two buildings. The third building, the A3, which will be in direct proximity to any of the two buildings selected, will become a museum hosting the antiquities of the metro, which are now hosted, stacked, I would say, in the storerooms of Kalochori. I will not say any more, Mr President. If I have to, I have my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u82	Minister, I am talking about the issue of the spaces and the use of the stockpile of buildings, both in the west and in the east, i.e. I am talking about the Municipality of Paul Mela and about the municipality of Kalamaria, because that is where we have this dowry which can accommodate spaces that focus on the issue. The issue is the establishment and operation of the Museum of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism. I'm not the one who's going to tell the experts, the museumologists, what to do, because I'm talking about my question. Only the invaluable archive of the historian Costas Fotiadis covered two and a half acres. Let's get in the process and see what they're gonna cut off. Please step forward, raise the issue and take advantage of the living forces of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism. Merimna of Pontic Ladys, the Black Club of Thessaloniki, the Panagia Sumela, the Lighthouse of Ponties, the Brothership of the Kromnai, research centres, the Land of Pontian Studies, the Committee of Pontian Studies under Mr. Galanidis, the Centre of Pontian Studies with Mr.Photiadis, our historians, Kostas Fotiadis, Vlasi Agjidis, Haris Tsirkinidis, who was his work, "The Red River", was what he put essentially the younger generations into what the Pontou genocide means, the culpture of the homes and homes. So I am talking about fragments, testimonies, objects, books and how exactly and in what areas they will be exposed. This is why the FEK, signed by Alexis Tsipras, speaks of two thematic parks, one in Athens, the refugee in Alexandra Avenue, and one in Thessaloniki. I'm talking about how they can use them. I know, too, I've talked to both mayors and what I mean. I don't care if it's SYRIZA or party is New Democracy or JRC or anything. We join forces for Thessaloniki and to honour historical memory. That is how we honor historical memory. We don't need to close a museum and turn it into another museum, as a retaliation to a neighbouring country, no matter how barbaric the initiative it took for Agia Sophia, but with creative initiatives. These are creative initiatives, in the west of the museum and in the east, where there are eight buildings - Mr. Demortzides, Mayor Pavlos Mela, and the Mayor of Kalamaria Mr. Dardamellis - eight buildings of the thousand squares. Create committees, with pont historians, with Pontian unions. Open this collection, a hug, of the Ministry of Culture. What do you have to offer at the Museum of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism? All this collective effort to stay, so that when the out-of-democratic Greek comes from Australia, America, when the schools ask, they go there, both to the west and to the east of Thessaloniki, and to Kalamaria, the ancestral new home, to the new homeland, and to Paul Mela. The camps around the former camp came to know what the great-grandfather grandparents went through, how they arrived, and how they built New Life. Take this case, it's a state's central responsibility. We will say our opinion, both the MPs and the mayors and the regional leaders. The final decision, however, has been taken by the Ministry of Culture. Because it is a major theme of the Museum of Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism and developments confirm it. What do we have to do with other witnesses? I expect your creative response to join forces in practice. We, as SYRIZA, did what we could. In years of memoranda we have sponsored the city with two camps and given an FEK, we have created the legal framework. Bright gloss of glory. Take the spoon and continue with works and not in words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Although I would urge you not to use - I beg your pardon - the words of Kaiafa. Why did you say “What do we need other witnesses?” In the New Testament, that's not what Christ says, Kaiaphas says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u84	I hope the Minister understands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u85	Yes, of course. It is now up to the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, look at this, you are breaking open doors. I told you: it is a case which the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, systematically monitors. Evidence, his recent visits to Thessaloniki. In his time, the ones he saw were those involved in the promotion and exploitation of the camp Paul Melas. Already, the co-responsible interior and development ministries are on the move. It's a matter of very few days, because they're waiting for some papers from the municipality, funding. Already, the responsible Directorate of Modern Cultural Heritage of the Ministry of Culture - which has been credited for all the previous years for its care and effectiveness in matters of refugee Hellenism, whether it is museums, which have been created from time to time or at a time or even a whole series of other actions which have been done precisely to highlight the enormous importance it has for the history of the younger Greece, the part of the refugees, who came then, brought new blood and created new economic, social and cultural conditions in the Greek body, he knows the Ministry of Culture to do these - he cooperates with the Folklore Museum of Thessaloniki, which also knows very well to study and make use of his data. On 25 June I visited the municipality of Culture and the municipality - the mayor - and the Holy Metropolis - and you know that Metropolis is very serious about this - and the Region and the Metropolitan Development Thessaloniki, precisely to see how we are going. So the Ministry of Culture is obviously going to use all those who bear memory, people who still live and have testimony, unions that have material, because something needs to be done to this museum - they must report - it is a museum, which is not just technology. You have to have objects, you have to have testimony, you have to have manuscripts, files because from there, from this directness, with the relic, with the historical presumption kept much better memory. You know very well that there is already funding from the Central Macedonia RDP of EUR 20,000 000 in order for the municipality and the Metropolitan Development Agency to form more than thirty-two acres, which is the Pavlou Mela camp, to build the network infrastructure, which will serve the buildings, which - I say - was a very unpleasant surprise to me. I'd seen them ten years ago. They really have been vandalised, to the extent that we should be concerned about our own society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u87	Good, it is very pleasant that you agree on the objective. Let's see now in practice. We are now moving on to the second under number 913/12-07-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr. Apostolos Pana, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The need to speed up the full operation of the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros Halkidiki". The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. My colleague Mr. Apostle Panas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u88	Madam Minister, first of all, I should like to thank you for your presence today. The Polygyros Archaeological Museum is in fact the archaeological Museum of all Halkidiki, being the most representative in the prefecture. To disappoint, unfortunately, residents and visitors, this museum is empty, not to visit, except for a small exhibition, the exhibition by Mr Lambropoulos, which is a private donation and came after the friendly efforts of the company Friends of the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros. In October 2019, an open public tender for the supply, construction, transportation and installation of the precursors and other exhibition structures was announced for the purpose of forming the exhibition site of the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros. The tender procedure was completed on 9-12-2019 and the agent assessed them in order to select the project contractor. The deadline for completion of the project is ten months. In reply to your question from 24-1-2020, which I addressed to you, you explained that the timetable for completion of the first phase of the project gives an absolute date on 1 July 2021, but leaving it unanswered when the second phase of the project will be completed and where the funding will come from, as we speak of a budget of almost EUR 500,000. A year ago, if I am not mistaken, it has been announced that seventeen projects on culture from European resources have been approved by the Region of Central Macedonia, and I do not hide from you that the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros and Halkidikis was out of the question, which left us a lot of questions. So, Minister, I ask you: can you specify in time the start of the second phase of the necessary work at the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros and Halkidiki, while at the same time clarifying the origin of the financial resources available? It is a very important issue for the citizens of Halkidiki to have a specific timetable on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u89	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Pana, for the question. As I had answered and written you, the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros was repaired and restored as part of the previous NSRP 2007-2014, with a budget of about 2,213,000 euros. The building was completed in 2014 and was received administratively in 2014 by the relevant Ego of Halkidiki and Mount Athos. Also - I think I had written it to you in my reply - the music and musical study was licensed, that is, it was done and passed by the relevant councils of the Ministry of Culture in 2013 and 2014. Therefore, the project was completely mature, to join already in 2015 or 2016, if you want, which opened the programmes of the current financial period. But that was not the case by the previous government. Incorporated the project in March 2018. In other words, we have a delay of about two years in the integration of the project. However, the project was integrated with a budget which, unfortunately, allows for the completion of the three of the four thematic cycles of the permanent exhibition, the "Point and history", the "Prehistorical Society" and the "Labropoulou Collection". A collection that really deserves much and gives great added value to the Polygyros Museum. According to the technical bulletin, which has been submitted, the project will be completed on 1-7-2021 and it seems that the Antiquities Agency is consistent in the timeline - it is within a timeframe - absorption is very good and, therefore, we have every reason to believe that this date will be respected, on 1 July 2021. We therefore have the fourth section on Halkidiki in historical years. According to the updated budget, which I requested, in order to answer your question today, the amount is about EUR 700,000, is not, unfortunately, EUR 500,000. However, at historical and archaeological level, the amount is very good, because this shows that the Museum will be even more nice when it is completed and will meet modern challenges. So what we found is the sum of 700,000. Because I fully agree with you that the Polygyros Museum is in fact the Archaeological Museum of Halkidiki, we have every reason to want to have a proper Archaeological Museum. In October, i.e. in the third quarter of this year, the funding of 700,000 will be part of the national public investment programme of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, we can begin the procedures from the relevant Bureau, see how much money - at first, there will be little money - will be covered by them and, if possible, we will move the project over to the next 2021-2027 programming period, but there will be no interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u92	It was very important that the historic route of the project, as it enables us to know what was practically done over the past period of time, so that some things could enter into a reasonable series of information for the Halkidiki citizens as well. I would like to tell you that we have started as Halkidiki - and I personally - a series of actions on this subject, because we are directly concerned about it. I have informed Mr. Djijkosta by sending him a letter. We've made meetings with the Association of Friends of the Archaeological Museum. There is a will and a meeting has been held with the Mayor of the Capital of the Prefecture, the Municipality of Polygyros, who are also trying for this project on their part. What I want to say to you is that regions like Halkidiki, which - you know better than me - are a little unknown historical route, starting from ancient Toroni, Skooni, later ancient Ollithos, Stagira - the birthplace of Aristotle -, Athos, Olympiada, as you know, it is very important that they have their own point of reference. For us, the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros, the Archaeological Museum of Halkidiki is something that will promote our culture, but will promote - in a very difficult time - and our tourism, as all the local voices, the whole world and the society of Halkidiki recognize that it will give something more. Of course, it is very important for our own educational community. So what I want to end up with, as you are giving us a specific timetable today on the procedures of the Museum really and to ask you, knowing the sensitivity to cultural issues that it has shown over all these years, especially in the issues of Halkidiki even more difficult than that, to get it on you. There is a need for Halkidiki to have its own cultural area. And we need this to be done as quickly as possible, as we have a huge history on the part of culture and we must finally have the point of reference. I am sure you will, and that is illustrated by her answer today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u93	Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fact that we have decided on the national side, which you know how difficult it is to put such a large amount of money in the last quarter of 2020 to include the sum of 700,000 to the completion of the Polygyros Museum, shows precisely that I agree personally and the Ministry is fully in agreement with what you have said. I must tell you that the stability of the previous government, which has delayed two years of accession, has not only led to the delay in the completion of the project. As a result, the resources available for culture have been distributed by the region elsewhere. With the Regional Director, Mr. Djitzkosta, I have had an excellent cooperation for many years now, even more. We were very concerned about the time you said works were announced, but culture from the Region, the Polygyros Museum. Unfortunately, it was money, which had to be distributed in specific ways, which you too know very well. This is why the second phase of the Museum was not included in the co-financed projects of the Region. That is why I have also told you that we will begin, so that there is no delay, with national resources and if things proceed according to our programming and the new ESDP begin, we will be able to transfer it so that we do not charge the resources, but without further delay to the Museum. Halkidiki must have her museum. She deserves to have her museum. It has too many areas, which have yielded very significant findings. In any case, an archaeological museum is entitled to every region, every regional unit, when we even have the luck of all the regional units in our country having this huge wealth, archaeological and historical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the third with number 914/12-7-2020, a top-level question for the first Piraeus II cycle of Mera25 Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Reiterate a school enclosed at the School of Officials of the Hellenic Police". The question will be answered by Mr. Economou, as you have seen. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, although I am tempted to talk about several phenomena of police arbitrariness, which we have seen in the last few days, I will not do so, while remaining within the issue of the timely question we are discussing today. According to a preliminary ministerial decision, which arrived at our hands, it seems that the Ministry of Civil Protection is planning to restore the incarceration for students of the School of Officers of the Hellenic Police for the 2nd and 3rd year, thus allowing only the Junior Lieutenants of Class to leave, feed and stay outside the School. In other words, we have the thought of a return to the earlier regime before January 2016, while neglecting and overlooking all the benefits that a student can obtain, a cadet, if not incarcerated, benefits of educational, psychological, financial, family benefits that a change had brought about, thus reintroducing the daily testimonial confinement within the school. We consider the objections of modern social requirements to require specialized knowledge, which can only be obtained within the School in order to upgrade the education provided, referred to in the preliminary draft, as not capable of justifying returning to the military or of justifying the reasons for separation between students. In view of the above, the question I have submitted to you, Minister, is the following: What reasons have led to this change and whether qualitative changes in the classes that graduated with the previous model since January 2016, which have forced the return to it to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the training of Greek Police officials is a primary concern for the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. Every day, women and men of the Greek Police, due to the special nature of their mission, serve the citizens of this country, who are responsible for a dense and extensive grid of competences, whose exercise requires numerous knowledge and special skills. I would like to remind the National Representation that the legal framework governing issues of the operation of the Hellenic Police School is the 319/1995, which explicitly provides for the obligation to stay and to feed the Doctors within the School. However, it is possible, if it is considered that it contributes substantially to their education, to the accommodation and feeding of secondary, third and fourth-year students outside the School by decision of the political leadership. In view of the above, following a decision by the Minister for Civil Protection dated 3 July 2020, the graduate lieutenants of the fourth class of the School during the last six months of their studies, following the completion of their daily training courses, have the opportunity to leave, to reside and to be fed outside that School. The current leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection is aware of the process of providing training services to Greek Police officials as a dynamic process of obtaining appropriate supplies, with the aim of best fulfilling their mission and not as a sterile process of obtaining only theoretical knowledge. With this in mind, but also by assessing a number of other parameters that I will develop in my second place, it is making the necessary interventions in the direction of organising a modern educational doctrine that is consistent with the Greek Police's special identity as an armed security body, with a strict hierarchical structure, but also with the modern, upgraded challenges that its new officials are invited to face as graduates of the Hellenic Police School.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u99	Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you for the clarifications. I have to say that, unfortunately, the choice of the Ministry's leadership to restore the incarceration - as much as it was typically the case, just the previous leadership considered and rightly thought that the junior lieutenants should have contact with society - are extremely likely to work negatively by alienating them from the society, which they would be invited to serve and defend. So throughout their studies they should remain an integral part of it. The information about this question reached me by representatives of PDOSY, representatives of policemen, who themselves realise that their officers must be part of society, because when a child is eighteen years old, nineteen years old she is cut off from society and her problems, while remaining locked in a school, she becomes a foreign body of a society that will be called upon to serve. In addition, how do you justify, Minister, people from this House, who most often have more than three years of real service to remain incarcerated for another three years? At the same time, do you not think it can act as a brake for police officers who are married or have a family who see enclosure as a deterrent, so they are not trying to evolve within this House? Unless you look at - and in this case I would like to know - the possibility of a different alternative regime for them, because as far as I know, at least with the previous exit system, there were the cadets who had children, not those who were just married. Minister, I would also like to ask you to tell us whether there are any changes to the curriculum in terms of the afternoon piece, which would justify the need to stay in school. Of course, the fact that this way of study is applied to too many other schools, such as the Plenipotentiary or the Icarus School, does not seem to be capable of justifying its application and the School of Doctors, precisely because of the different nature of the schools, unless we lead to the transfer of Greek Police to the Ministry of National Defence, which might justify such a change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need ten more seconds, Mr. President. However, we believe that the disfellowshipping of the tested officers from their families and society without objective reason and without measurable results - because we do not believe that the officers who graduated from the previous system had less quality characteristics than those who graduated after three years of incarceration - in the long term, will be charged and altered by this House and will work for the whole of society. In conclusion, let me note that we as a PART25 and I will personally monitor and closely monitor the training section, the subject of police training. It is a part that we consider to be extremely important. It concerns us all, it concerns our society and cannot be a micropolitical field or a cover for any ideological hunger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u101	Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u102	Mrs Bakandima, I retain the end of your second-guessment where you undoubtedly raised the question of the evolution of education in the School of Officers outside a micropolitical framework, because really the subject of education is an issue that we all have to deal with within a framework of understanding, because it is a very important matter for the education and further training of the new officials of the Greek Police who are called to respond to a new, modern and very difficult environment. I believe that it is indeed a joint finding now that we are experiencing a time of many challenges of particular complexity that are emerging every day and which we are called both citizens and the state to face. In this new constantly changing reality it is now called upon to attempt Greek Police personnel. The Government, and in particular the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, are invited to proceed with those initiatives that will provide the new officials of the Greek Police with the necessary knowledge and skills to successfully carry out their mission. We believe in multi-level education, based on vocational and scientific training, the acquisition of the necessary academic background, but also in the proper preparation of the students of this school. The necessary prerequisite for the complete acquisition, assimilation and consolidation of a wide range of knowledge and skills is the use of the afternoon time by the junior lieutenants and the adjustment in the near future of the entire training programme in such a way that theoretical training and its ability to apply it to a well-structured educational environment with simulation practices, teamwork and other related activities. I would like to assure you that these initiatives are part of a broader framework of planned police education reform, which is based on a series of needs that we have identified and to which we are determined to respond. For example, I mention the need for training and lifelong training to meet new requirements that are constantly emerging, better interconnecting training with professional training, adapting to new threats and new forms of crime, while developing appropriate strategic and operational tactics, and interconnecting and working with university institutions, with a view to ensuring qualitatively upgraded theoretical knowledge. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] To this end, a university working group has recently been set up with a view to submitting integrated proposals for police education reform. To conclude, I would like to emphasise our deep conviction about the multiple benefits that the Greek police will receive, but also overall, the society in the long term from this effort which, as an exclusive target, has the best service to the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to inform you: First, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, is calling for a short-day absence abroad from 23 to 26 July 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u104	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Secondly, the second question under number 906/8-7-2020 in the first cycle of the Members of Parliament of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The impossibility of the Government leads to mass auctions in the autumn" will not be discussed after consultation between the Member and the Minister. Finally, I would like to inform you that we will close the sitting with the debate of the first under No 928/13-7-2020 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Expansion of the western suburban Thessaloniki in Edessa through the Giannitsas". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaloniannis. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the western suburban Thessaloniki is a plan coming from the old. In fact, I would say that until two years ago it was only one exercise on paper, an idea, a simple announcement. But since 2018, the then leadership, the administration of the "ERGOSE S.A." has given to the Ministry of Transport a pre-study for the western suburban of Thessaloniki. This study essentially provided for a project with two branches and two starting points, with a general ‘X’ line and essentially two cross-checked lines. It provided that one line would have as its starting point at the west end of Sindo and its eastern edge the main passenger station of the railway station of Thessaloniki, while the other line at the west end of Thessaloniki would have the Diavatas and its eastern edge the port of Thessaloniki. Finally, it provided that each line would have seven stops and on its common point there would be the possibility of a transfer. In fact, this project, according to rail actors, will gain even greater value and benefit for the passenger public when the western expansion of the Thessaloniki metro will be completed. We knew that all this work has been delayed because of this government's decision to extract antiquities and to transfer them to an exhibition site. The extension of Thessaloniki's suburban railway link with Edessa via Giannitson is a universal, timeless demand of the entire local community of Pella. I will tell you, Minister, that a citizens' association has been set up in Pella called the 'People's Association of Friends of the Suburban'. It's a play that comes from even before. He's been coming from 2007. Then the 'ERGOSE', essentially the services of the OSE, had drawn up a house - to say so - a feasibility study - of sustainability, which, unfortunately, did not go ahead. It was neither premeditated nor a final study, and most of all, all of these studies and projects were not integrated into a financial instrument. The thread, Minister, was recaptured in 2016 when the SYRIZA government came out. At that time, after an OSE stadium visit to Pella, it was decided to draw up an ID study, which was presented to the Municipality of Pellas and specifically to the city hall, in the presence of all the municipalities involved in the route. And I refer not only to the municipalities of the Prefecture of Pella, namely Edessa, Skydra and Pella, but also to the municipalities of Thessaloniki involved on the route, that is, they were representatives of the Municipality of Halkidona, the Municipality of Delta, the Municipality of Thessaloniki itself. The feasibility study of 2007 was also updated, which was also presented on 27 March 2018 at the City Hall of Pella. There was then the political will of the SYRIZA Government, namely the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure for this project, at the level of the studies and at the level of the overall construction to file a dossier at the CEF, at the Connecting Europe Facility, when an invitation was issued. He was expected in 2019, but we were beaten by the elections. Look, Minister, essentially the suburban railway link between Thessaloniki and Edessa through the Yannitsas is an extension of Thessaloniki's western railway to Edessa. This is essentially the same project, since we are talking about the same line. In other words, in one of its two extremes, to the south, the point of Sindu, which ends at the central passenger station, should be extended to Edessa. Therefore, in all these studies that have been carried out so far, i.e. essentially in the pre-study of "GIAOSE" for the western suburban, to meet, to integrate the identification study and the updated feasibility-viability study carried out on the Thessaloniki-Edessa line. This is a project that will essentially serve all the suburbs of Thessaloniki. I believe that the area of Pella, which is only forty kilometers away, Mr. Minister, from Thessaloniki, is a suburb of Thessaloniki. All these regions will therefore be served. I am not referring only to the areas of the Municipality of Pella, namely Skydra, Giannitsa, Pella. I am referring above all to the areas of Thessaloniki, which are large residential units, to Koufalia, to Halkidona, to the Bridge. And of course the areas: Passportors, Sindus, Cordellios, Evros, Hectalophus could be connected to this line. It is a very important transport project because it will essentially connect large settlements with the industrial area of Sindo, but also essentially with the metropolitan complex of Thessaloniki and the port of Thessaloniki. Look, the reason why I tabled this question, Minister, is because it was set up on 9 April this year by a decision of the Minister for Transport and Communications, the Coordinating Committee for Rail Works, which will decide on the modifications of railway projects in central Macedonia to join the ESDP in the next programming period 2020-2027. We believe that this work is very important and should be, after the Thessaloniki - Athens railway line, the second major priority at country level because all these residential areas are served and not just. I therefore ask you, Minister, if it is a priority for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to implement this very important transport, rail project, namely the extension of Thessaloniki's western suburban to Edessa and what action you intend to take to integrate both the study and the implementation of the project into a financial instrument. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, I think we have proved in the past few days that with the Minister of Health we have launched the Kiato - 'Saint' railway line, that in general rail transport is a priority for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport under this government. To agree that rail is indeed the most environmentally friendly means of transport and perhaps the most economic in terms of inland transport. But to make it a reality - and we must also agree on this - a series of actions, a study of many factors, are essentially satisfied with the substance of many conditions and, above all, to see how best the needs of both passengers and goods on land are met. Of course, because there is a complexity of rail projects, I think that it is not enough simply to go to a logic of simple announcements, a fiasco or even a fragmentary study. And because it is good to hear truths in this Chamber, I will tell you this, my colleague. It is true that a preliminary study has been carried out, but it is neither premeditated nor a final study. You have reached a primary stage, but unfortunately it was a very early stage. And, of course, this did not prevent the specifics from being made, as you said, meetings in 2016, in 2018 and then the administration of the OSE tried to present a feasibility-viability study and, in fact, a recognition - I repeat it once again - an engraving study. The question is this. Did these actions actually come to be considered mature and finalised as a priority? Unfortunately, no. Of course, both the heads of administration of the OSE and, of course, the government's political leadership at that time were aware of that. And to talk with truths in this Chamber again, because they know exactly that thing, let me tell you that I think they tried to mislead your fellow citizens in Pella. In January 2019, with the same government, OSE submits a technical bulletin for funding from the NSRF 2014-2020 all the required studies of the project of the Thessaloniki, Skydra and Arida railway link through Giannitsas. And do you know what studies this funding includes? What's he actually asking for? They requested funding for the studies. All the first and second phase studies on the extension of the suburban rail network to central Macedonia with a new rail engraving, i.e. via Chalcedon and Giannitsas, included two alternatives. So even at this stage they had not decided what the starting point of this work would be. In one case the line would be Thessaloniki - I donated to the railway station Gefyras and in the other case the starting point would be the railway station of Andros. That is, even in 2019, when this request was submitted, in fact the then government of SYRIZA had not decided where to start this station. However, it did not prevent anyone from organising these monsters that I personally am not surprised at, because I recall that at the same time around the same time they are being organized and humoured with musamas on the metro of Thessaloniki, which was supposed to be delivered at the time. Unfortunately, however, I would like to tell you another truth which is certainly also a very great impression. In this technical bulletin of January 2019, it is stated that a new cost-benefit assessment is required. So there was no feasibility study. And it is a good question, of course, why demanding a new study when he was supposed to have accepted this study and had already presented it a few years ago. And it is, ladies and gentlemen, also worth asking why only one should present a preliminary study and not even a final engraving study, not to speak of an environmental impact study that really needs three alternatives. So you have been well aware of this since 2019, and that is why all these proletarians and studies have been called for. The only identification study without supportive studies - and this is very important and I stress it - is not enough for this work to proceed without problems. The implementation of this engraving would, therefore, result, because you know the specific characteristics of the region, and you know that, on the basis of this premeditated study, the identifiable study, on a very many points, the level of soil would have been below which, if you like, the railway line would have crossed too many irrigation channels, as the preliminary, if you like, plumbing and identification geological studies which had not been prepared, would have resulted, I repeat, in having a railway line that would have been constantly flooded and, in fact, would have been practically untrue, because in fact many times it would not be used. I say all this because it is good to hear truths and understand the world and, above all, your fellow citizens in Pella, that, unfortunately, what was presented up until 2019, was a recognition study, not even a premeditated study. Of course, we have a long way to go. In my dentistry, in order not to abuse time, Mr President, I shall refer to the Minister's priorities for this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u108	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u109	Minister, rail projects also require a great deal of money and a lot of time until they are implemented. This is a common place. However, this work is also worth it and money and all the time it takes to implement it for reasons that I shall analyse below. I, Minister, explained to you with concrete steps - because this had started since 2007 and was abandoned during the difficult period of the memoranda - how the previous SYRIZA government, on an essentially internal level, of the services themselves, because of lack of resources, showed its political will to go ahead. You have now been involved in the following contradictions: on the one hand you have accepted that studies - and I acknowledge it - are preliminary studies. I said it myself. I told you about the identification study, which was done at home, as I told you about the update of a feasibility-viability study, which was based on the 2007 study made by your government, by the New Democracy Government on Karamanlis in 2007. I also told you that, in fact, in order to implement this project, we also need the level of premeditation and the level of the final study - I said it - and the level of data implementation to be integrated into a financial instrument. The previous government's will was to go to the CEF, to Connecting Europe Facility, which is the European fund that finances such projects. And we have shown how it will be implemented. In the same direction, the implementation of a pre-study by the administration of GAIAOSE is being initiated. And this is a premeditated completely preliminary study, which concerns the western suburban of Thessaloniki. From there on, we consider it also to be an entirely development project, which will not only help move citizens to and from Thessaloniki, but will enable the development of the local economy. People will come who in a different way would never come to Pella. You have said that, too, rail is the most environmentally friendly instrument, not only because it saves fuel, but also because it enables traffic and fewer vehicles on the national roads and on the provincial network. It is also the most economic means of transport, with the greatest possible volume, but also the most attractive. Also, Minister, I would like to stress that, prior to the submission of this question, I had the opportunity to speak on this matter with the resigned president of the OSCE, who considered that this work is friendly and tempting and he himself incorporated it into the logic of extending, in essence, the western suburban of Thessaloniki to Edessa. We have shown you how the political will of the previous government has expressed this task at a later stage. Because, as I said before, rail projects have a very long maturity. From there on, what I wanted to hear today from you is how it could be incorporated into the second phase of proletarians and final studies, much more on a financial instrument, the implementation of this project. What I would expect to hear from you, in view of the training of this Coordinating Committee on Railways, is what the will of your government is, and especially of this ministry in terms of this project, namely the suburban railway link between Thessaloniki and Edessa through the Giannitsa, which is currently not covered from nowhere, as an extension of the western suburban of Thessaloniki and what action you intend, as a government, to take. First, is he on your priorities? And, secondly, what actions do you intend to take to further mature this work? Also, Minister, because I know of projects, this cannot be implemented during a government, nor during your own governance. It must, however, become a reality. It is particularly developmental, it is recognised by everyone as such and it is very tempting, very attractive work. So I say again to you that, in our view and the citizens of Pella, this should be the country's second priority, after the Thessaloniki-Athens railway axis, because it serves too much passengers and very important urban areas. Pella is a highly productive outdated region. In other words, in that sense, products could also be put into effect at some point. I am, of course, talking about suburban connection. In any case, this is in our conscience as the number one development project in terms of transport infrastructure, after the completion of the National Road of Thessaloniki - Edessa. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, what I have explained to you in my protagonist is that, on the basis of how you have formulated and the timely question, there was in fact no premeditated study at all. Because you specifically refer to the premeditation. You also developed it in your protology. So, at least, we have made it clear in this Chamber that it has been expressed, as you have said, a political will on the part of the then government, which was, however, - you will allow me to say something in the air. It's not the first time you've done it. I remember the then Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, having said something similar about both BOAK in Crete. When we arrived at the Ministry to see if there is any study, then, unfortunately, we have just seen paper exercises. So let's go to the work of this committee, so I won't waste any more time. In fact, a ministerial decision has been adopted as early as March, setting up this committee, which will in fact study and make a strategic plan for railway projects. I would like to give you some specific information on this committee, so that you know exactly what it will do. This Steering Committee, which includes the presence of the Secretary-General for Transport and, of course, the Programme Management Special Secretariat from the European Regional Development Fund, will in fact have a strategic oversight and guidance and will in particular coordinate the timely preparation of an action plan on transport issues. Because at some point in this country we have to say that we are making a more general strategic planning for exactly where we have the needs and what exactly railway projects we need to go. This committee will have three axes. The first axis, with a recommendation to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, will be to plan investments, signalling requirements and mechanisms for the development and implementation of railway projects and, of course, to allocate financial instruments with a specific timetable, with specific sources for 2020-2030. Because I, too, agree with you that projects - and we must say that - in this country many times others are studying them, others are growing them, and I mean governments - and, in the end, the projects - I think there is no objection - belong not to the governments, but to the Greek people. A second axis is digital transformation and adaptation to climate change challenges. I think that we will also agree on this, that this is a basic priority of the country as regards both railway and road projects. A third axis is the organisational transformation of the OSE and the ‘ERGOSE’. Of course, we have seen that there are some minor problems in this matter which we are going to fix. I would like to tell you that this coordination committee is assisted by a working group, which also includes the ministry's staff, because we believe that the administration needs to be involved in the development, through its competent managers, in order to ensure administrative continuity, particularly in railway projects, which I think we have agreed that they are matured too late and need a very long time. And, of course, it is also supervised by technical advisers, where necessary, in order to introduce the necessary know-how into administrative practice and to make the best use of technical and administrative knowledge in the field of both the study and the implementation of railway projects. In this context, of course, this work will be considered, and we will also consider what will be the appropriate financial instrument for completing all the necessary studies. I will say once again that, when we talk about studies, we are talking about the feasibility study of preliminary studies, premeditated studies, final engraving studies, topographic, plumbing, geological, geotechnical and, more generally, environmental licensing. So since this whole process is completed and in accordance with the existing legal framework of L.4412, as may be amended and then we will see, after completion of the studies and the removal of all obstacles - because we may fall into archaeological or environmental issues - what will be the appropriate financial instrument. The will of the current leadership of the Ministry exists. And I stress this with great intensity. In order to be precise, however, and not to get to the point where we simply have to blow up, concentrate and tell the world either of Pella or of other regions, that 'you know, there is a will' but, in fact, there is nothing to do, it should be the result of a very specific process, so that we know both the timetable and the specific study. So in answer to your question, yes, that's a ministry priority. As far as the financial instrument is concerned, it will be the result of this committee which will have a more general overview of the railway projects on the ground. And that is where we will answer you with what financial instrument will go ahead with this project. I will close, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, with this: Beyond the rail, you know very well that very important initiatives have been taken in your area over the last year in terms of road transport as well. Things have been happening in the last year, which, unfortunately, has not happened in the last four and a half years. I think that the particular government and the specific political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has shown that as far as the Pella Region is concerned and for specific nodes - we can analyse this in another question - we have done things which, unfortunately, have not been done all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-17-S1-commons.u113	With the consent of this House at 13.51 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday 20 July 2020 at 16: 00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
