ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 26-3-2020 mandate, the PKB's minutes of Thursday 26 March 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PKB's proceedings, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Structuring it from 10.2.20 PKB. "Urgent property requisition arrangements to avoid risks to public order and health" (A'28) and of 2.3.20 B.N.P. "Suspension of applications for asylum" (A'45) and other provisions."]] Before entering the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, today I am responsible for the duty and honour of saying goodbye to Manolis Glezo, a human symbol of resistance and struggle, an indelible piece of history, the 'first partisan of Europe', as was described by General De Gaulle. Unfortunately, the unprecedented crisis that we are experiencing today deprives us of the right and the obligation to honour Manolis as he should, which will be done in the future. Instead of that, I thought to remind him of his words as some kind of oath of ours to him, an oath which we ought to pass as a reserve and the generations that will come. "In the eves before each battle we were gathering and talking and saying: If you live, don't forget me. If you don't find the volley when you meet people on the street, you'll say good morning from me. And when you drink wine, you drink from me. And when you hear about wave smuggling, you'll hear about me as well. And when you hear the wind pass through the leaves and hear the breeze of the wind, you will hear it for me too. And when you dance, you'll dance for me too. Can I forget about this world? Is it possible?’ So you, Manolis, didn't forget. That's what you proved with your life and your full course. And now that you're gone, we're not gonna forget you. This is our oath for you, for the people and the homeland you loved. Please keep a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] His memory is eternity! Thank you very much. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that six questions will be discussed. It won't be discussed. It is the number 4560-27-2-2020 of the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the issue of protection of the main residence of natural persons, which is not discussed due to lack of competence. We begin with the fourth under the number 605/27-32020 current question of the first cycle of the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the South Athens Sector, Mer25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Education, on the subject: "The need to grant computer and internet access for distance learning". The attending Minister of Education will answer. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the degraded state of your pandemic has led you to the need for distance education, first by 10 April, but all the objective data show that this will be extended. I think that we need special attention and responsibility from all of us, especially from the state. In our view, long-distance education will prove ineffective and unjust unless everyone is given access to the system. Unfortunately, it is assumed that crises are increasing inequality, since they do not include similarly all social groups. And in order not to be empty, the functioning of the system should be ensured both the functionality of the platform, which unfortunately presents very serious problems, and the provision of access to all students and students without exception. It is therefore absolutely necessary to take additional support measures to enable the educational community to function effectively. For example, we have the following suggestions: The direct subsidy of all high school students and students with a financial amount - i.e. about EUR 400 for the provision of a personal computer, laptop, on the basis of the economic conditions in force in the first place, for example, of a rental student's allowance. The free provision of access to the Internet for as long as distance education is carried out. In order to buy and renew computer equipment and all the necessary infrastructure at school units, in order to make it available to teachers in order to meet substantially the needs of distance learning. With the above measures, the state will respond to its essential obligation to ensure that interested parties can access it. Finally, the extremely steep situation experienced by the students and teachers of the country with an unknown period of time is very likely to create an additional need for psychological support for those involved in the education process and are facing completely unfavourable circumstances. I would therefore like to ask whether there is any provision for this. That is why we are asking you the following questions. Is there any intention of taking the measures necessary to ensure the effective and effective functioning of distance learning, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u4	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Keramea.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Madam President, for the question on an issue that is really more than timely, the impact of the health crisis that our country is experiencing in the field of education. New terms were imposed on education as on all the manifestations of our lives. Lifelong teaching was suspended in all educational structures in the country. We were ready and moving immediately with one single goal. Continuing training at all levels. How? A distance. It is a great project that has never been tested in our country horizontally. And a project carried out thanks to labour, enthusiasm and care, on the one hand, teachers and training staff, on the other hand, students and students. In schools, the response of pupils and teachers goes beyond expectation. We have moved to three axes: modern education, asynchronous education and educational television. First axle: modern education. On 11 March the operation of educational structures was suspended. On March 13, just two days, the pilot run of modern distance education began. More than fifty-five thousand teachers have carried out more than seventy-two thousand live digital class transmissions, with more than one million ninety-six thousand students attending increasing on average 70% a day. We've reached up to eighteen thousand modern classes a day, with over three hundred seventy thousand participations. Asynchronous education and access, i.e. educational material on the educational platforms of the Ministry of Education. Over eight hundred fifty thousand students have been registered and over sixty - six thousand teachers have been enrolled in the Panhellenic School Network. Networks that hadn't been built, as we all know, to accommodate the entire student potential of the country. Yes, there are malfunctions and systems are constantly being upgraded in order to meet this extremely high demand. Modern and asynchronous work in all high schools and in all high schools in the country, and this week modern education is being completed in primary schools as well. Since Monday, a third axis has been launched, educational television for primary school students, with very high viewing. By way of example, just on the first day of broadcast of these video courses, the viewing reached 51.2% of the ages of four to fourteen. At DIEK in less than a week, fourteen out of a hundred twenty-six DIKs operated on the basis of asynchronous training platforms. In the universities of the country, a high percentage of courses per SGEI are carried out, combining already used asynchronous telecommunications and asynchronous telecommunications. I want to tell you, for example, that in Harokopi the percentage of full distance courses offered is 94%. At the University of Crete at 93%, at the University of Patras at 91%. I shall mention, Madam President, because of time, in my dentistry of access and infrastructure issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u6	Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have been following you constantly in your statements. And this morning I saw on TV the statements you made. I must say that you are very specific and very careful in what you say. And that's very important in these difficult days we're spending. What we want to do is to contribute to the effort that is being done and not to be negative. The regulations we are proposing are only part of what needs to be done, and they are certainly the minimum prerequisites for distance learning. On the other hand, no one can predict, as I said at the outset, how much time this time of teaching will be necessary. Obviously, we all agree that it is necessary to ensure access to all interested parties. We are not only talking here about self-evident, that is to say, the extremely vulnerable groups, such as the needy ones. Even a middle family with two children, students or students, where one or both parents now provide their work through the Internet, is faced with an emergency situation that cannot be covered by one, or even by two computers, most of which are old technology and cannot respond to the data, but at best they can be the only ones available at home. Also, it is crucial to address the issue of platform malfunctions in primary, high schools and high schools. In other words, to address the possibility of using other available internet routes to dismantle the situation. We've got a problem with the internet right now. There is therefore a serious technical problem, but there also seems to be a significant lack of support and guidance, particularly for teachers. It is necessary to set up and operate a support and information centre. Therefore, we have to deal with the question of the employment of additional staff specializing in IT, with its provision in school units, at least for one month. Let me also point out that the programme of education television via ERT may be a very good start to deal with the situation, but it is completely, you will allow me to say, inadequate. In order not only to have a pretext function, it should be extended to a daily six-hour programme, for example one hour for each grade of primary school, so that the online platform can be dismantled in some way. In view of the increased needs that arise, we should ensure free internet access, that is to say, that we have free internet. It is also a state's debt, and it is certainly a corporate responsibility, but in any case it is necessary even if, in any way, services and service providers should be ordered. Finally, we cannot allow any interruption in connection with links between telecommunications companies, as long as we face this unprecedented situation. We should do the minimum required by the Constitution. It's our duty, and I think, Minister, we're all trying hard. So nobody stays out of the training process. I would like to ask you, Minister, what is going on with the students and the examinations they will have in a short time? How do you deal with this? The private kindergartens? What if their tuition is regularly paid? I also think there should be a different invoicing. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say that we should not rest on the provision of training deficits, on the pretext of the state of emergency. The system of distance learning is certain that it cannot replace the work of the school units, but also to address the present situation should work effectively and effectively for all. I believe that this is an obligation and a responsibility for all of us and, above all, for all the state and you in this direction have shown positive steps. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u8	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to begin with this: the objective of distance learning is in no way to replace lifelong teaching, physical teaching in the classroom. The aim is to maintain close contact between students, students, students with the educational process, with the learning process. I'm coming to the equipment and internet issues. Two are issues in distance education: on the one hand, the Internet, because, to a large extent, all this is moving online and, on the other, equipment. As far as internet connection is concerned, the vast majority of families with students and students have a stable internet connection with an unlimited number of data. Nevertheless, we also have the possibility of being able to connect to the online platform of modern telecommunications and by telephone, with a fixed telephone charge. In addition, we are in discussions with internet providers to further support the effort of telecommunications. And as far as the Internet burden is concerned, which really exists and you understand that the country's entire activity has been transferred to the Internet, we have already imposed hours on the use of the platforms of modern telecommunications, in order for the burden to be allocated to the hours of the day. I'm on equipment. Significant technological equipment has been provided through the ESDP to the educational community. We have already launched requests to strengthen this equipment and also, we have already received significant commitments from individuals, companies and natural persons for the direct reinforcement of the technology equipment for the benefit of the educational community, and I would also like this step to thank the individuals who support this very important effort. Every effort to strengthen the educational community is more than welcome. In addition, with regard to the issues of support for the educational community, I should like to say that in each school there is a support group made up of the school director and an informatics teacher. All of these have done online seminars on how distance education works. We have given detailed instructions, videos and all this material is available on the Ministry of Education's website, which is probably renewed today, a new website with all the information on distance learning. We have also set up a large support team at the Ministry of Education, which answers phones, e-mails, from morning to night, for any matters of distance learning. You asked about the students. We have told all tons that the academic semester will not be lost. Remote distance is making excellent progress in universities. I have given you more than 90% of distance education in the programmes that are being carried out in universities. And I would like to close, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, with three points. First of all, I would like to express my warmest congratulations to the teachers and teachers of education, for the warmth with which they implement the new procedures, for their cooperative willingness, for their readiness, for their flexibility. They give our children the most important lesson in their example: In every difficulty we join forces and find solutions together. We are learning something new, or we are creating it, so that we can all move forward together. Secondly, this crisis, this dramatic crisis that our country is experiencing, enables us to use new digital tools. To exploit potential that opens before us, to develop all our digital skills. Thirdly, and I welcome what you said before, in this effort, my colleague, we are all together. It is a national effort, aggregating the political world to contribute to a more effective response to the crisis. Of course, every criticism is welcome and constructive proposals. Days ago, I contacted the leaders of all opposition parties. I informed them about the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Education, concerning distance learning, and asked for systematic proposals, thoughts, ways of improving precisely the provision of education, in this unprecedented crisis that our country is experiencing. We'll all make it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The next two questions will be answered by Vassilis Kontozamanis, State Secretary for Health. We move on to her first with number 606/30-32020, a top-level question from the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Sufficient public health shortages in the management of COVID -19 pandemic and the need for detailed information". Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to your introductory speech, Mr President, I would also like to point out the fact that the Greek Parliament must at a future special meeting honour Manolis Glezos, this emblematic figure, not only for the Left, but for the entire Greek people, for his patriotic action, but also for his social struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u12	The President of Parliament has already made the decision. We just can't set a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u13	Obviously. Undersecretary, SYRIZA is following a constructive approach to the management of the coronary pandemic. The conditions, of course, for such a attitude, are one of the ones in all its aspects, as well as the detailed information on the initiatives taken by the government to deal with it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] In these two requests, Mr Secretary, we see fundamental deficits and inconsistencies, which require clarification on two lines. The first axis is the staffing of public health structures, hospitals, primary health care, structures in refugee camps, where delays occur, and in our view serious unemployment is the intake of permanent health personnel. We do not have a clear picture of the final distribution of the staff hired by the Ministry, as well as of the employment relationships that govern these recruitments. We find a mismatch of announcements and relevant posts in “DENMARKING”. In addition to staffing issues, multiple issues arise in relation to the second axis relating to infrastructure, health material and the actions undertaken by the Ministry. The coverage of health workers with the necessary kinds of protection seems to be problematic, as is reported by the workers themselves. That is why we would like you to reply to us: How many intakes have already been made in the public health system per OSH and with what employment relationship? What is planning for direct permanent recruitment and how do you plan to take advantage of primary health care? On the second axis of the Ministry's policy, I would like you to tell us what immediate interventions are being planned in order to achieve the elementary adequacy of personnel protection instruments, to strengthen the mechanism for detecting cases and to strengthen the measures for the protection and treatment of pandemics in reception and identification centres, particularly in the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Michaelides, dealing with pandemic is definitely a national case. It is the duty of all of us in the National Representation, not only of the Government, to deal with every Greek and Greek citizen in the face of this crisis and to be the winners of this battle. I fully agree with you that we need detailed information on the initiatives taken by the government in the fight against the coronary. To date, we have shown that we have hidden nothing, of course, at the disposal of Parliament, but also of the political parties with regard to the actions and initiatives that we have taken. You will agree, however, that it is also required to be the attitude of Officer Response, with actions and initiatives that promote constructive criticism and not create false impressions. As far as your questions are concerned, I have to say that when the Koronian battle started, the health system was on hand and this is demonstrated every day and is seen from the results so far. I would remind you that the majority of the political parties are positive towards the measures taken by the government to date, the majority of the world welcomes the actions and initiatives of the government, foreign governments, foreign media, strong words of what the government has achieved so far in the fight against the coronary. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, let me say this: from the beginning of March, more than four thousand ancillary staff have been requested and approved by the Ministry of Health. These positions are, of course, translated into recruitment, which are progressing properly. To date, some two thousand people have been recruited in the National Health System as subsidiary medical staff and subsidiary staff. It is in "DENMARK" all elements and all allocation of approvals per Health Region and by category of staff is available. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm sure we're at a critical time. We had to strengthen the structures of the National Health System and we did so by recruiting subsidiary staff. These positions are not permanent, but we have stressed many times that the nursing staff will remain in the National Health System after the crisis, because there are many needs, and we have said many times that, as far as subsidiary medical personnel are concerned, we will gradually turn the positions of subsidiary staff into curator positions, so that by means of crisis procedures, we will give permanent solutions to the National Health System. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In fact, we have heard from your colleagues that some positions have been cancelled which have been started over your days. No notice has been cancelled. In fact, in a ninety-four seats, which had been launched in an election, we redistributed these posts and announced nine hundred forty-three seats. This procedure has been completed and the decision-making process of these positions is immediately initiated. So we are also moving towards a process of filling permanent posts in the National Health System and subsidiary staff in need. In fact, I told you that, while our original prediction was two thousand people to join the National Health System, we have made much more authorisations, because we also need to take into account the needs that may arise in a possible unfavourable development of the whole process, implying that health workers may be ill and that we need more people in our structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u17	Give me one more minute, Mr President, because it is very important. Also, within a very short period of time so much has been done in the National Health System: Seventy - five new intensive care units operate within a short period of time in the National Health System. Two hundred and thirty-five intensive beds are currently available to welcome coronary cases. Three thousand four hundred and twenty-five beds are currently committed to the National Health System, exclusively for the management of these cases. As far as the material is concerned, you see what is happening in other countries. Luckily...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Secretary, hold this for your dentistry because you've been in six minutes from three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u19	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u20	Mr Michaelides, you have the floor, with a little tolerance to you too, because we have three MDGs after.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, creative ambiguity, you know, has proved to be extremely problematic in the past. That is why I would particularly like you to answer first of all with regard to the recruitment of staff. You're referring to approvals. We would like you to meet us, indeed, with approvals of staff how exactly they have been distributed and, of course, how many of them have led to staff recruitment. We also want to point out that no permanent uptake of what we have already prepared has been completed. You have announced hiring four hundred doctors. We would like to know exactly where these doctors are. As far as nursing staff are concerned, I must remind you that at the moment about a hundred workers are suffering and five hundred are in quarantine. There is therefore a direct need for immediate new recruitment beyond what you have planned. As far as the image we have from the hospitals is concerned, I would like to tell you that, for example, from the Hospital of Chios, the recruitments that have been made so far are about a third of the losses that the medical staff have had due to special leave, withdrawal from the service for other reasons. It is therefore obvious that inadequacies are being created. You are systematically demanding, Mr. Secretary, public primary care structures. You are not using TOMY at all and you are weakening health centers by transferring staff to hospitals, for example, at the Hospital of Kastoria. It is well known that these structures offer important services to pre-private care for patients. By weakening these structures in substance, hospitals are charged with additional burdens. I would like to say that the finding is that this is reached in hospitals with a delay and is available with the drop-off. The donations and, in particular, the government's supplies, must guarantee the full, Mr Secretary, the safety of workers. I would remind you that recently the Panhellenic Medical Association has been acting on the provision of masks for medical clubs in the country on a fee. Is it not the state's duty, Minister, to ensure the protection of our colleagues, even of private doctors? Finally, allow me, with your tolerance, Mr President, to make a small reference to the health management of our islands and the identification of our islands, as well as of the accommodation structures in the mainland. We are deeply concerned at the lack of a concrete plan to deal with possible cases in these areas. The measures which have so far been taken are incomplete. The areas that will be welcome for isolation and hospitalisation may be inadequate for patients in these areas. I would like to inform you that, for the isolation of, for example, patients in Chios' Cyts, a two-bed capacity house has been installed beyond the medical establishment, which has installed the periphery with action. In addition, staffing in these structures is poor, considering the fact that health conditions in these areas, as well as over-concentration of people, will cause a large dispersion of incidents. I would also remind you that action is not only about refugees and immigrants, but also about local populations. In the Chios Cyt, for example, Undersecretary, two hundred people go in every day, which is security, police officers, cleanliness workers and other agencies. I think that even the members of the CSTs consider these measures inadequate. I would therefore ask you to answer these questions in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor to answer, with tolerance, because other questions have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Michaelides, I'm coming back to staff. I've submitted certain particulars. It's also at your disposal. Whatever other elements you want, they are also posted in the “DENMARK”. There is no question of questioning or doubt. We're in a critical situation. These recruitments - you know - are subsidiary staff. They shall continue to recruit permanent staff at the same time. You know that very well. You were pioneering the recruitment of auxiliary personnel to the National Health System. It is logical that we should be taking rapid steps right now. And we have committed that certain categories of staff, such as nursing, will remain in the health system and after the crisis, in order to address past deficiencies. As far as the material is concerned, we all see what happens globally. I started my prototype to say that the coronary crisis found the health system with sufficient material. And at the moment you see every day that the health system is supplied with the necessary materials. The Greek Government, with the help of individuals - donors, charters flights and supplies the health system with the necessary materials. It goes without saying that these materials should be used in a rational manner and with pitifulness, because it is certainly not a waste period. We will leave no sanitary without measures of personal protection and no structure without the necessary material. That is why rational management is made. As far as the Panhellenic Medical Association is concerned, let me tell you that we have already spoken to the President of the Panhellenic Medical Association. The Ministry of Health will give fifty thousand masks to the Panhellenic Medical Association to distribute these masks to the medical clubs in the country. As far as the FTLs are concerned, let me say that the measures taken by the Greek state concern both those employed in the FTLs and the migrant population. In the context of the protection of health professionals and staff in the Cyts, both the Ministry of Health and other bodies have distributed basic protective equipment, which is renewed as necessary. Also, as far as case detection is concerned, provision has been made for all migrants arriving in the country after 1 March to remain in special structures outside the CST for 14 days, to carry out the necessary health checks and then transfer to the structures in the inland to avoid dispersal. The Ministry of Migration and Asylum has prepared the Operational Plan "AGNODIKI", which implements all the necessary measures to create suitable spaces so that possible cases remain in containment or quarantine, thereby preserving the health of both the residents of the CYTs and the wider population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Contozamani. We move to the third with number 602/23-3-2020 in the first cycle question of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece in Larissa, George Lambroulis, on the subject: "Urgent reinforcement of the public health sector by ordering the infrastructures of entrepreneurs in health". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. The limited and insufficient measures by the Government to strengthen the public health system in no way correspond to the enormous needs of the pandemic. The minimum and temporary recruitment of health, personnel movements, lack of protective means, together with the fact that a relatively large number of healthcare is coming out of battle, are reporting serious consequences for the treatment of expected mass-scale cases. At the same time, there are still a hundred, ten beds closed in public hospitals. And as the days pass, the Communist Party's assessment is that the urges and the necessary measures for personal protection are not enough if all kinds of public and private health units - equipment, numerous health personnel - are not necessarily placed in a single state plan. The JRC had submitted concrete proposals on time and repeatedly, at least until now, that the government refuses to implement. Of course, dealing with the pandemic cannot be an exclusive obligation of the inadequate public health sector and the private sector to make use of these conditions as an opportunity to gain. We say that concrete measures are now needed. Now, therefore, nursing beds, surgery possibly, workshops, private sector IDs along with their staff, and put into full state control. To call on the large private diagnostic units, to include self-employed doctors and, in particular, the specialities of pathologists and pneumonologists in the public hospitals and health centres and, of course, to take advantage of the free care of the people. To lay down all necessary health protection materials and technical equipment to strengthen public health and health units. Accordingly, there should be a hotel requisition in order to accommodate health workers in public hospitals, based on the needs arising, but also to provide adequate support for the well-known ‘Help at Home’ service. At the same time, students, seniors in recent years, as well as teaching staff, should also be exploited in this direction to enhance the functioning of the public health sector. So we ask the government whether it will implement any of these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, you have asked too many questions, and we have been given an opportunity to respond in full and in detail to the actions taken by the Ministry of Health's political leadership in order to deal with the horn pandemic. These are actions which - let me say - are characterised by rapid decision-making and above all by high efficiency. These actions are part of the broader planning of the Ministry of Health and Government in line with the evolution of the disease. This design is based on five axles. The first axis is the strengthening of the National Health System in human resources. Let me say here that we cover all needs and we have anticipated the coverage of even more needs as long as our staff is treated with extra recruitment. As I said in reply to a previous question from your colleague, the approvals we have given are far more than our original design. Our design includes the entire National Health System both at primary level and as regards our country's hospitals. We provide all the appropriate means to protect health workers from hospitals and health centres in the country. For these people, who are at the forefront of the battle, we are ensuring that they safely carry out their work, because we know today that these front-line fighters are charged with greater weight and responsibility with regard to other specialities of the National Health System. Today all specialties are in the National Health System, all structures serve emergency situations and any cases deemed necessary. And at primary health care level, of course, all primary structures, health centres throughout the country normally serve the world. We are rewarding the workers of the country's health structures with exceptional financial support equal to half their monthly basic salary. The second axis is the development of additional intensified treatment units beds and their categorisation in intensive and exclusive use beds for coronary and IF beds for the other incidents. We have pointed this out on several occasions, but, because the repetition is a mother of learning, once again, to say that in the hospitals of the ESY, we increased the METH beds from five hundred sixty-five to six hundred ninety-five. We have developed seventy - five new intensive beds in a very short time. We have transformed, in order to deal with the coronary, increased care units, as well as negative pressure chambers that had the necessary infrastructure to support intensive treatment unit conditions. We have a specific development plan that is implemented daily and functions of the IF beds, so that we can deal with all the scenarios, all the possible, related to the development of the coronary in our country. Third axis is to develop simple hospital beds and categorize them in simple hospital beds for coronary and hospital use only for other incidents. Starting from the hospitals "Pamakaristos" and "Agia Varvara" and continuing with the "Save", "Evangelism" in Attica and, respectively, in hospitals in Thessaloniki and the rest of the country, we have developed about three and a half thousand beds for the hospitality of Koroni. We have taken care of these beds both of normal care and of the intensified treatment beds being located in specific clinical and specific sections which do not communicate with patients who are hospitalized and who are not coronary. Axle four: The supplies of the necessary health, pharmaceutical and other equipment. I mentioned it before. I'll talk to you again. In any case, we ensure the adequacy of all materials and the rational use of personal protective equipment, so that nothing is missing and every sanitary can do his work safely. We are moving on with a plan for the immediate supply of the necessary sanitary material and, as we have said, with the help of donors and the private sector. The Greek state charters flights and comes all the time and is delivered to the country. As far as medical equipment is concerned, all the intensive care units in the hospitals of the ESS are fully equipped with respirators, monitors, beds and all the equipment necessary for their operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u28	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, we are moving towards the introduction of equivalent supplies, as well as the acceptance of donations. In addition, we have ensured the necessary quantities of medicines that so far show that they have a result in the management of the coronary. There are the critical stocks needed by the country. The export of these products and their prescribing has been prohibited. It is used with a controlled prescription. Fifth axis: Development of primary health care. Here is a more general planning for decongestion of the reference hospitals and of course also dealing with mild and moderate cases at primary level, so that we do not have to go to hospitals. We also develop, by means of telemedicine, the remote monitoring of patients with mild and moderate symptoms in their homes and institutionalize in the next few days the doctors' hospitalization, so that the doctor can visit the patient in his home and provide the necessary health services. Mr President, I request one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Undersecretary, look, a lot of what you said you answered Mr. Michaelides. Mr. Lambroulis was in Athens and he's heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u31	Yes, but extra issues were raised. Mr President, I ask for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u32	Okay, but you won't have any tolerance to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u33	Okay. On the question of the requisition of the private sector health structures you mentioned, of course, in the act of legislative content, and a task of structures and staff is provided for. If we need to get to this point, we will do so and we are already preparing for any possibility. We are in cooperation with the private sector, so that all structures help to tackle this problem. A corresponding order plan, as I said, has been launched and we have planned not only the ordering of private sector structures, but also the appointment of private doctors to strengthen the National Health System to human medical resources. And one last thing about the diagnostic tests you're reporting. In the battle against coronary diagnosis, the National Center for Haemorrhage is entering the next few days with great capacity to meet increased needs for the coronary tests. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u34	Just before Mr Lambroulis gets the floor, he may help me to say that - I do not recall, but I inform him - that in the "ARTEMIS" project - I know it is because he bears my signature in 2005 when it was made for the bird epidemic - there is, Mr Lambroulis, clearly the view - has come out and that if we have to beat up, so far we do not need to - automatically, all public hospitals, all private hospitals, all military hospitals and all the hospitals are placed at the Ministry of Health. That's been in place since 2005. Let's hope we don't have to use it. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. So I have from a former Minister and a current State Secretary for Responses on this matter. But see, Mr Contozamanis, Mr President, he has done an account of the measures we have taken so far, if you wish. We do not say that measures are not taken. Nor do we blame the government in that direction. The question was specific, specific questions. You mentioned everything that has been done so far. Look, you're talking about ninety more hires. Now it has to be done. When are the crises going on? But again these under normal conditions, not when they are extraordinary conditions, such as the ones we experience as a country and not just. And you are all well aware of this, and all of you here in this Chamber, Mr President, that in normal circumstances the National Health System is about thirty thousand. And we're not just talking about doctors. We're talking about all kinds of nursing and other personnel. So, in an emergency, how long will it take? We're not saying you're doing anything, or we're blaming this thing. And, of course, there are time-consuming responsibilities here for all the governments which have been denounced by subscribing, subscribing the public health system. That's well known. And if we bring questions together, but also in the public debate, we intervene on public health issues, we do so because measures now need to be taken. And you cannot say - Mr Kaklamanis said so too - that the order is provided for, and so on. All right, the requisition may be provided, but you have already made an agreement with the health business groups, for example, for beds, for ITH beds to be allocated for Coronovirus incidents, which are compensated by the EEA, namely by the workers themselves, because I am passing through the state does not even put a penny of sacks for years now. The private IF beds will therefore be compensated for by EUR 1,600 instead of EUR 800. You put about 30 million in a liner, if I'm not mistaken, from the EEA in this direction, strengthening who? The private. We say that the order is of this nature: not to charge our people, workers, the state by extension, not a single cent and to make free use of all these infrastructures and staff, of course, with their respective wage satisfactions. We are saying that we should make use of all this in the service of this urgent situation that we are experiencing. Of course, for the IM beds you may say that now because of the emergency we are making the effort, we have opened seventy out of ten, that we will open more, and we will finish, etc. Why, do the seven hundred fifty, which together with the three hundred fifty, reach a thousand or a thousand percent? What has the country as a whole - and I mean by the private sector three hundred and fifty - arrive when, according to the World Health Organisation's international data, you know very well that three and a half thousand intensive treatment beds are needed on the basis of our country's population? I'm sorry, but that's the situation, that's the way it is. How do we do it? So, in the face of the crisis, not through the problems of the public health system, but also through a series of anti-corruption measures which are being promoted in the wake of all previous years, through legislative acts, our people are subjected to this suffering. So, Mr President, we have asked specific questions here, and we want concrete answers, if this is what the government is planning to do, that is to say, that the relevant, necessary units should be laid down. We are not all saying, but where the necessary units are needed and when necessary. These, however, are required before they can be launched. It is necessary, beforehand, to organise through a state - we say - a project that is all about implementing these measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I will be brief. Mr. Lambroulis, I was clear. Legislative acts clearly provide for the maintenance of structures and human resources, if necessary and there is this in our planning and we are preparing for it. So far, we all see that we're in the good script. About five hundred and thirty fellow citizens are hospitalized in the hospitals of the National Health System. Therefore, depending on the evolution of the disease, we are implementing our plan. I would like to say that the National Health System should also take care of patients who do not have a coronary and need health services. So there's an overall design, where necessary, we'll go to the private sector, as I told you, we'll command intensive care units, private units, personnel and all health personnel, whether they're in public or in the private sector, will fight the battle, if necessary. We're opening intensive therapy beds. We will open up more in the next few days and next month and open as much as we need to deal with it. We have said many times that we have done huge things in a very short time and it is an opportunity to fail the past, which the National Health System had, to cover them up at this time. I repeat once again, it is not a question of money under any circumstances for this government. We will do everything we need, we will hire everyone we need, we will buy whatever it takes to ensure that everyone who needs it is provided with health services. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u38	We move on to the second debate under No 607/30-32020 on the first question of the Member of the Elias Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Direct need for support and liquidity in enterprises". Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are living in an unprecedented crisis of asymmetric proportions, which no one can appreciate its size, but which, unfortunately, as far as all the data show, will lead to a recession in the Greek economy in 2020. The Minister of Finance, one week ago, identified it as 1% to 3%. At the same time, rating houses say the Greek economy's recession will be from 5% to 8% and unfortunately some international analysts identify it as up to 15% due to the great impact tourism has on the country's GDP. We hope that this scenario will be disproved and that we will not reach such a great recession rate. Of course, the government has properly taken relief measures for businesses and professionals, measures to suspend tax obligations, suspension of credit obligations for three to six months to inform professionals and entrepreneurs, a repayable advance of EUR 1 billion, which is essentially a low loan. However, measures which do not exceed 3% of GDP, and many of them are not nominal, are only time-consuming changes, when in other countries we have 10%, 14%, 21% and 10%, in countries such as Spain, Italy, France and Germany. The Greek Chamber of Deputies only yesterday - and I hope you do not question its validity - has done an investigation and said that 94% of the businesses are affected by these measures, when the same Minister of Finance said the other day that nine hundred thousand businesses and seven hundred thousand professionals are affected and that the measures announced are covered by about 75%. Of course, professionals are struggling for the next day, what will spring them and expect to see if there are some measures and proposals from you in relation to direct aid and liquidity with loans, which will be directed to the large part of the business and, of course, measures of a definitive nature that are linked to both a reduction in tax and insurance obligations, but also strategic measures, as well as when they will be implemented and when you determine that there will be a re-launch of the Greek economy. So far, what have we heard from you? And that's where the question is based. We have heard about a EUR 1 billion guarantee mechanism with money from the ESRB, which will lever more EUR 3 billion in the Greek economy and with the use of all available tools - at least of what you have published so far - total lending of EUR 8.75 billion. We're talking about borrowing. Of course, the Development Bank will play a dominant role. I am not going to go into the fact that, while you have announced it since September, administration was set at the Development Bank just a month ago. It is important that you also say so, and the Prime Minister has said so, because small and medium-sized enterprises, which are excluded from the banks because of high interest rates, and are not being borrowed easily, the Development Bank guarantees these enterprises in order to increase their credit capacity and improve access to lending. But from what it sounds and is written in the draft law, which you are preparing for the Development Bank, you are predicting that only companies, which are updated by 31-12-2019, will have access to liquidity. I ask: do you intend to give direct aid to the firms affected and also to include in liquidity measures, through lending, and to companies that are not bank-informed, obviously excluding strategic malpractices? Secondly, on what criteria will these loans also be granted by the banks to companies and on what conditions, given that the Greek State will guarantee 80% of the loans to be granted, 35% of the entire portfolio that will be placed on the market as liquidity and, of course, will guarantee 12 billion in the smallest scenario up to 18 billion on the basis of the latest decisions of the European Central Bank to the Greek banks, which you understand is now how beneficial for the domestic banking system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u40	Mr Minister, as you will answer, I also raise a point of order: because it rightly urges the Ministry of Health to do as much as we can electronic transactions with banks, etc., should the capital tax we pay for electronic transactions in the banks be stopped during the crisis? I tell you, for example, that to put as New Democracy MPs from the National Bank in Piraeus the EUR 2,500, the 17,5 euros are paid for by the bank. I think in at least three months' time these banks must behaved. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u41	I shall begin with the last one, Mr President. We Members of Parliament who did the usual procedure by telephone to the banks, the bank of Parliament, that is, we did so by the procedure - and I - the transfer from one bank to another. There, the charge is 17 euros. And I paid for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u42	We're not talking about it for us. We're talking about the civilians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u43	Just a minute, let me explain. I made the usual procedure for all these years that the store can help us remotely. But if I did it from the web banking, I would pay 2 euros. And it's good that you put it. So if we are all going - and we are first - to the web banking, that is, to electronic transactions - I did not use it, because I went with the habit - we would have EUR 15 less charge. And it's a chance now, we all go further into the electronic process. Be aware that the charges, if you remember - the answer given to Mr Papadimoulis, of electronic transactions in Greek banks are the lowest in the European Union. So, we should be a little cool about this. Anyone who turns from the ordinary process to e-commerce will also earn money. That's the answer. I now come to the answer to the question. First of all, Mr President, thank you for the question. However, I would like to tell you very well - to have a level debate - that the question of micropsy does not have a question of pettyness. To avoid you being wrong, I would like in your dentistry to say: How do you measure that we have given 2.5% to 3% of GDP, while the other 10% to 20%, as you write in your question? Because, for you to know, the official element that came out of ECOFIN, from the European Union Council of Finance Ministers last week, is that the European average is now 2.5%. Greece is at 3%. Because if you measure the only indicator of the state budget, then Greece is at the highest point. But if you want to count, as I imagine, 10% to 20%, all the announcements, that is, the guarantees and loans that will come and all the rest, then you cannot count between 2.5% and 3%. Because then, we're already at 10%. So, to judge us fairly, we are at 10%, at 19 billion of all the packages we have announced. And I'll tell you right away how the 19 billion goes out. We have said 3 billion - we will lever three and a half - in the first phase with a perspective of 6 billion and a horizon of 10 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u44	Now you're saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u45	I've said that to two of my press interviews. So, I'm telling you, if you want to count all the announcements made by others, you'll count all the announcements we've made. If you want to count only the real money that others have given, you'll only count the real money that we've given. But you can't count on us the real money to the others to present us backwards. We are not backwards or financial measures. We're at first gear and financial measures. Secondly, I am pleased - and what you said is right - that you recognise the great success, not only of the Government and Prime Minister personally, but of the country that we have incorporated Greece into the QE, which means, as you rightly said, the 12 billion to 18 billion to be directed by this programme of quantitative relaxation for the coronary to Greek bonds has had a direct impact on the immediate downturn in interest rates of the Greek State which, from 4,10%, had reached the previous day, today, is about 1.50%. It therefore had a direct impact on public finances. Secondly, it has a very large impact on the stability of the Greek banking system. And that was a national success, nonetheless, as you saw from the public communication from the European Central Bank, which felt the need to explain why it decided to circumvent its rules and integrate Greece into this programme. I would remind you that Greece has been trying to join this programme since 2015. It could not be integrated because our bonds were not at an investment grade and the rules of the European Central Bank forbid buying bonds that are not in investment grades. The first exception in their history was made for Greece on this Government. And that's a national success. Mr President, in order not to abuse the time, I will respond to my dentext for measures one by one. I would also like to hear the reply of the colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am sure that Greek citizens are unable to understand, because a call to a bank can charge them EUR 17 and why the pressing of a button is 2 euros. I think that anyone watching us is unable to understand that. Secondly, the Minister insists today that Greece should be very successful in joining the bond market programme when he knows that this was done under exceptional circumstances, where all the restrictions now came. Along with that, as you know, Minister, the restrictions of the Stability Pact came along. Therefore, without any budgetary criterion beyond the 2% expenditure limit, the European Central Bank, the European Union has decided to provide liquidity to all Member States. This is very important to our country. It is very important for the domestic political system. But as many times as you say, it is not a personal success of the Greek Prime Minister. And you know that very well. Because in the first days of the crisis - you remember - the very armored Greek economy, as you said to the first time, how it went. Remember the ten-year bonds, the spreads and the image of the Stock Exchange. But that's not what you're talking about. I agree that it is very important that there is liquidity in the banks. The question, however, is this liquidity that will be channelled and who will see it. And you have not answered your protagonists about business support measures, whether you will give direct aid, whether you will give loans to businesses, and on what terms, and who sets these conditions. I agree that Europe was very hesitant. And I would say that it has been unacceptably delayed in taking measures and so far it has not given an active, decisive solution to support the countries and economies of the euro area. Therefore, from the initial measures in favour of enterprises that do not fall under the State aid rules after six days, it removes it and gives flexibility in relation to State aid. We are, of course, waiting to see what will happen with the bond, which has called for too many countries, including Greece correctly. But we see that in several countries there are direct aid measures, such as France, Germany and the United Kingdom. In the rest of the countries there are guarantees, but under such conditions as are, in fact, a form of direct payments. Obviously, our country cannot make 500 billion available, such as what Germany has given or 100 billion, such as what Spain is giving. It is, however, very important to see the conditions under which these loans will be granted. So we see in the preliminary draft you are preparing for the Development Bank, which is the main loan instrument for companies, that they are actually given under the terms of the banking system again. A Management Committee is merely set up to monitor whether the project is being implemented. And the banks provide files to the Ministry to do sample checks. I repeat, all this is happening when the State guarantees 18 billion, when the State guarantees 80% of the loans and 25% of the portfolios and when the state supports domestic banking institutions that would have different results in their balance sheet. The European Central Bank itself also recommends that banks should be much more flexible on loans granted with public guarantees so that they do not'red'. So here, what are you doing? You say that the beneficiaries of the new loans are only non-competent companies until 31 December 2019. And it is important to see what these problematic businesses are in the end. Who are regarded as firms in Greece 2020 when, based on the Bank of Greece’s figures of December 2019, the business loans of 36% are non-performing, small and medium-sized enterprises are 50%, micro-enterprises are 60%, the trade sector in 48% is non-performing loans? Let me also tell you about tourism, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u48	That's what you're closing up with!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u49	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Please. Tourism, which you know is important, Minister, is 31% and agricultural activities 50%. All of these are problematic, unserved and are essentially out of the question of being given liquidity through loans. Because even those companies whose loans have been transferred to the funds, which you say may be an opportunity now to negotiate repayment terms, and these companies, beyond that, have no access to liquidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u50	Come on, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u51	And I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u52	You told me three times, 'I'm done'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u53	When the Bank of Greece, Mr President, is of importance, it says that one out of five is considered a strategic mispaid. So what are you doing now? You are effectively dismantling the companies that are intensive and do not have access to liquidity and have not settled their obligations with the banks. They will have no opportunity to have liquidity on the day following the crisis. So all these businesses will be shut down, and all these entrepreneurs, professionals, workers, I wonder, Mr President, where they will find a job. That is why I call on you, Minister, and on you, since you will guarantee all these billions to the Greek banks, together with the bank briefings on 31 December, to include a significant number of companies that are on the limit. 40% of problems based on Bank of Greece's data...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Catarini, I can't give you any more time. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u55	I'm done. 39% of enterprises have been delayed three to six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u56	The Minister knows that. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u57	Recently, you will allow me to tell you that I believe that in the Change Movement you are trying to find shelter in "I do not pay" concepts and because you have ruled this country, I saw yesterday's announcement by Mr Christides, your press representative, to stop paying all debts to Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u58	Did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u59	Yes, I did hear that Mr. Christides made a statement, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u60	I don't have that in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u61	If you want me to read it in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u62	Let's see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u63	Don't provoke me. You're causing me now, too, when I say something, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u64	My colleague does not have that in mind. It's not causing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u65	In reply to a journalist's question: "There must be any extension needed to repay each account?", Christides: "Our proposal - yours - is to apply until the coronary crisis and the measures to protect the citizens against its spread". Every debt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u66	It's the power and the phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u67	Don't have an interactive conversation. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u68	I'm coming back. I want you to understand something and stop populism these critical hours. If the country loses the culture of payments which, with both sacrifices and PASOK, has been built over the past decade, our progress towards bankruptcy will be inevitable. And the last thing that every responsible politician in the country would like to wish is to lead the country back to the cliff. We won't. Because thankfully Greek citizens have more mind than you, I will tell you that in the last three days - and this is very good news, Mr President - the state's revenue has gone well. The Greek citizens, although we had given them the right to suspend payments, they went massively and they paid for it and I congratulate them on it, so the revenues of March went extremely better than expected, in practice proving that the Greeks are responsible and are dismantled to the extent of the circumstances. I come to what you said, so it doesn't seem like I'm going over it. Why do we choose to lend the information enterprises with guaranteed loans, Mr Katrin? Firstly, because we need to strengthen the culture of payments. If he always has the same treatment he is all right with his obligations and he who is not fine with his obligations, no one will in future be all right with his obligations. So the first and most important thing is to send a signal and it is an opportunity to do so. Whoever's okay with his obligations will always be the state okay with him. However, who is not in line with his obligations cannot claim to have the same treatment from the state, because then we will all collapse together. Secondly and above all, what you do not think is that if you incorporate the businesses that will not be able to repay their loans, Mr Katrin, so you will share free money, as you say, all the loans that will not be paid, do you know who will pay them? The Greek taxpayer. So what do you think? You say we charge the Greek taxpayer money to get businesses that, before the crisis, - I stress it - because the news is until December 31st 2019, which means that the first coronary case had not even occurred in China, at least officially. So you tell us that you want in PASOK to share the money of Greek taxpayers uncontrolled and without criteria, so that you can sell a vote. You have also done the other thing in the question, but you have repeated it orally. You allegedly lied to us that we have delayed the Development Bank. Do you not know that the timetable that we received from the previous government, which had been fixed, and I had publicly recognised it to Mr Drasakis, many times, was the operation of the Development Bank to be ready, I mean in action, as of May 2020? On the contrary, because of the crisis, we took it earlier on the timeframe and it is now ready and in operation to be able to play its part in the guarantee that you mentioned earlier. And instead of saying graciously: "Good thing you've done faster," you're making us ironic. As if this is the time of irony, Mr. Katrin! So let's go to what we've done. We have already announced, and the invitation to the banking institutions concerned will be announced if not today or tomorrow, but within the next 24 hours, the first EUR 1 billion programme which, by leveraging, will reach EUR 3.5 billion, of guaranteed 80 % loans. It will be mostly for small and medium-sized enterprises, that is 70%, and 30% will be for large businesses. And it will be possible for all companies with informative bank loans, i.e. companies which are worthy to a very small extent, to obtain a guaranteed loan at 80%. They will be able to request a loan of up to 25% of their annual turnover. In cases where they can prove why more money is needed, the most will be considered. So the businesses that are okay and were okay by the end of the year, they will find immediately - we say from the beginning of May, but we are working to make it even faster - easy and cheaper to borrow working capital, so that we can be ready when the restrictive measures are lifted to take the economy forward. Is that all we're doing? Oh, no! This evening, if not tomorrow morning, the electronic platform of the Ministry of Finance begins in which every company interested in and in the affected CARs will be able to apply to receive a repayable advance from the Ministry of Finance. Total subsidy: one billion. This advance will be directly into the business bank accounts via Taxisnet and will have a five-year duration. First year grace period will be four years with a low interest rate. Is that all we do for business? Oh, no! We have taken over the payroll of their staff with the famous special allowance of EUR 800 for as long as the crisis lasts, in order to ease their burdens. Is that all we've done? Oh, no! Through TEIX we announced a working capital loan to enterprises of EUR 500 million at which, for the next two years, we are paying the entire loan rate. Is that all we've done for business? Oh, no! We have announced 1,5 billion euros, because you do not count well, Mr Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u69	Same and the same. You've been through it many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u70	They're not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u71	You've been through it many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u72	I've been telling you all over again why you didn't understand. One, the guarantee: 3.5 billion. Two, TEIX: 500 million. Three, the repayable advance: one billion. Four, 800 euros: many billions. Fifth, which you have not measured: the payment of all the interest rates on the information business loans of small and medium-sized enterprises amounting to EUR 1.5 billion in April, May and June, with the possibility of extending this amount for the months of July and August in the event of an extension of the crisis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Is that all we've done, Mr. Catarini? Oh, no! In agreement with the banks we have achieved for all the people in Greece, namely the beneficiaries of 800 euros and the employers of the CARs who have entered the various protection areas, the freeze of their private debt, suspension in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u73	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u74	Just let them know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u75	...private debt freeze for the next three months. The uninformed, Mr Katrin, did not pay anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u76	40 percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u77	Please, if I'm up-to-date, please, please, Mr. Georgiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u78	What's parole for the guy who didn't pay? Suspend gets the payer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u79	Minister, are you aware that there are presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u80	I'll close, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u81	Shut up, though, 'cause we've got one all the time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u82	I'll tell you for the last time, Mr. Catherine. PASOK as a member of the 2010s and, on the other hand, paid a great deal of costs for the country to stay upright and I recognise that. It's a shame that you've made it smash with everything you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u83	We will go to the last two questions, to which Mr Ioannis Vroutzis will always be present. It is the first with number 608/31-3-2020 appropriate question from the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Spain measures to support the economy and the labour market put at risk the cohesion of the social system". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to my question, I would simply mention to the House that two hours ago we received knowledge that Ritson's structure was closed, sealed. We had tabled a question yesterday at noon on the problems that arise or have arisen and are well known. The structure of Richona is next to the border of Boeotia. In Boeotia there is an open structure in both Oinofita and Thebes. There is clear concern and we would like special checks to be carried out, because crowding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u85	What you're saying is irrelevant, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u86	I'm just saying it because it's a major issue with your tolerance. In that sense...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u87	It's very timely. Okay. I'm fixing your time and I'm starting with you and getting to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. I just want to say that we need public audits. Minister, the state of emergency, which exists, has indeed led the government to take some emergency measures to support the country's businesses and labour and vulnerable groups. These measures, however, are not complete, but they are incomplete and that is the meaning of the question. It is therefore inadequate to deal with the issues that have arisen. Furthermore, these same measures also lead to the circumvention of labour rights by certain willing and misguided employers. With regard to the inadequacy or lack of these measures to cover the conditions established, Minister, we are talking specifically about the young unemployed, the long-term unemployed, the scientists who have not started their careers, the disabled, the retired people and, above all, the retired, of course, who have not been retired for a long time under the responsibility of the state. We've said it, you know why it exists and we've been here today to be retired for three years and not even retired. And, of course, there is the issue of foodism and tourism, where there are issues for workers who do not cover them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Also, for the circumvention of labour rights, I would like to say that the legislative initiatives that you have taken lead to and create rather reasonable concern as a result of the suspension of the obligation to complete the additional employment forms of the 'ERGAN' system that actually removes the possibility of control by the EIA. In fact, there is no control by the APRC of the working time limits combined with the introduction of the possibility of suspension of a contract of employment, but also of operations with safe operation staff for two weeks, which also leads to huge losses in the wages of many employees, but also in reduced insurance contributions. We, Minister, believe that the government should cover all these business, professionals, workers, unemployed and producers without exceptions and overlaps and also ensure that the safeguards are applied to ensure that the measures are properly implemented and that employers are not arbitrary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Questions are specifically about incomplete measures: How can they be made more adequate and cover all the sectors that we have spoken about, and how do you add, Minister, to cure the dangers of Article 4 of the MDG of 10/3 and Articles 9 and 11 of the MDG of 20/3 raise issues with regard to both control mechanisms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u89	Before I give Mr Brutsi the floor, so that I do not forget it, I would ask the editors of Ethiopia at the next sitting to be followed before a speaker comes up at the Step, you will be fired - the materials have been given you - and then the President-in-Office will call on the speaker at the Step. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Mr Mulkiotis for his timely question at a critical time to have a debate and to open up the issues that concern the Greek society as a priority, the issues relating to the Koronovirus, the impact on the workers' society, the unemployed. This is an unprecedented fact that has no precedent in the history of the country's political and economic life and I think that this is not ignored by anyone. I welcome the topical and urgent question, because this is a crucial issue, which, in addition to public debates through newspapers, electronic and television networks, is good - and that is why this House remains a pillar of democratic dialogue - to discuss these issues more extensively and clearly among the parliamentary groups. But you will allow me, Mr Mulkiotis, to make a small statement, because at these critical moments, Mr Mulkiotis, we must come here more informed. Your question shows ignorance in the sense that you have not understood, you have not seen, you have not read what the government has done overall without claiming the perfect, as we have formulated, that you have not been informed and explained. The government's sovereign priority from the very beginning and in the direction that the Prime Minister himself gave was to safeguard the social good of health and, at the same time, - not only this - a confrontation of the issues of social affairs that arise, of economics, all that I will describe later. In the result of these priorities we have set you see in comparison with the rest of Europe that in the health sector too - indices say so - Greece has taken first steps because of the government's determination and, secondly, in other issues, economic and social, compared with Europe, we are in the front. I'll explain why. We have therefore developed initiatives on the network of social and economic issues which do not have a precedent. Mr President, today with the last set of measures from the three co-legislative ministries of development - Adonis Georgiadis - Economics - Christos Stagiras - and I, the group, as an institutional representative of the Ministry of Labour, have completed a first cycle of important intervention on the issues you mentioned. I have to say to you: it covers 1.7 million workers, that is, 81% of today's workers with our intervention. Eight hundred thousand enterprises are covered, 76% of all legal persons and, if we look at them at CAR level, which is currently completed within the information system 'ERGANI', their records following the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Finance, which we include both the secondary CAR and the primaryity of the firms affected, are 86%. Thirdly, we cover seven hundred thousand free professionals and self-employed and small business owners, about 75% of the total. Fourthly, on the issue of the unemployed, which you mentioned, and the unemployment benefit for the long-term unemployed - you have heard it, I think you know - our intervention was to those who ended the long-term unemployment benefit or tactics in the first quarter of 2020, which is being taken over by all seasonal workers in this quarter, we are giving an extension of two months. You heard, at the same time, about the Easter gift, which is in front of us. The Easter gift will be paid by all companies that have not been properly affected within the Great Week. For all the rest, we are giving an extension to strengthen the businesses by 30-6-2020 and, at the same time, the state budget, with the mandate given by the Prime Minister, will fill the gap that is created in unworked. So, you see that the government's total intervention was both rapid and reflexive, we showed sensitivity and sensitivity. In terms of size, I want you to hear it because it is of interest to the Greek Parliament, the appropriations in question are increased from 4 billion to 5 billion from the first announcement we have said. This is because the tax suspensions exceed EUR 2.1 billion. I mean the suspensions we gave to businesses, tax and insurance. However, the suspensions for special insurance obligations on their own are EUR 1.6 billion. The exceptional financial assistance amounts to EUR 1.4 billion. The total burden of these measures amounts to EUR 5.1 billion for the months of March and April alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Brutsi, don't say the whole press conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u92	No, no, Mr. President. I'll be done in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u93	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u94	This burden, together with the additional public health expenditure, the repayable advance mentioned by Mr Georgiades for strengthening business liquidity, strengthening the primary sector, strengthening the budget, the workers' Easter gifts and all the others - not to say again - amounts to EUR 6.8 billion, i.e. 3.5% of GDP. That is, Mr Mulkiotis, the government's intervention, when Europe's average is 2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u95	My colleague from the Change Movement Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you misunderstood the question. There's no ignorance. There's knowledge. And because there is knowledge, I will tell you: of course the Easter gift was given, but the Easter bonus, Mr. Minister, which you give, does not cover all the categories of workers, such as the "Help at Home", the police officers, the Armed Forces who do not receive the Easter allowance. As regards the lack of measures to which you have referred, we are asking the unemployed to have the aid, at least, for as long as the crisis lasts. That's what we're asking. We are talking about people with disabilities, and we are talking about those who are applying for and entering CSR for the first time. When and by what process will these people be considered and when will they expect to get something in relation to the problem they have? In relation to pensioners, you know very well - I have said this on several occasions - that by February 2020 there were a hundred sixty-one thousand outstanding applications. You also received from the previous government and they continue to exist. We've talked about it. But there are loose ends. One of these hundred thousand doesn't get a temporary pension. What about these people? Can't they get any money? To give a sum to them and then let it be retained by the pension they receive. As far as food and tourism workers are concerned, they are out of the question, like those who receive unemployment benefit that ended before December 2016, those who have received the special seasonal allowance, those who work for two or three times a week or those who have overnight contracts. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] It is of concern, Minister, that small businesses located in tourist areas or dependent exclusively on tourism, but have the same SAR as supermarkets, do nothing. Indeed, the government took measures covering some four hundred thousand workers. But there are some left outside. So listen, because the measures are not enough. Twenty-five or thirty-three thousand workers whose allowance for the quarter has already expired or have not been taken due to a lack of the press. They are workers in the hotels - you know them - who close early. What do we mean? You know it. In northern Greece, in the northern Aegean, in the Heptanissa, especially in Corfu, the move has ended in December. All these workers are left out because of the situation that has actually existed. But aren't there any loose ends? The "extractors" are the ones who work twice or twice? The proposal is for at least two months to give them the unemployment benefit. This is the proposal that makes the Change Movement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would point out, Mr President, that the foodstuff convention has not yet been declared enforceable. Of course, the contract has expired - and here I want you to see it, Mr Minister - and the rehearsal for three very specific categories, which are the candy shops, the candy factories and the workers in the rooms. So, in the next act of legislation that you are going to draw up, there is an extension of reincarnation, because these people are losing their rights. Also, for the self-employed and the loaders you do not mention anything. Finally, there is a question with regard to private training workers. We are talking here about circumvention of legislation and labour rights. Minister, these are four issues which I will identify with regard to the circumvention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his indulgence. One is to try to suspend the contracts of private trainers appointed by the Ministry of Education and by the teachers. What are you thinking? Will you accept the request of schoolgirls who are insisting these days? We recall that, in the same act of legislation, teachers who work remotely teach, learn and do not receive 800 euros are excluded. With regard to the proposal to suspend the obligation to declare supplementary employment with the ERGAN programme, here the poor employers are having a party. What about us? We say that you need to take some measures, so that the APRC, too, accepts many complaints, can deal with a situation. What do we suggest? We propose that the OSH should check the suspension declaration in the "ERGAN" programme and in the company's revenue, so that we can see whether it works or does not work and how it gets into the "ERGAN" programme. Marketing authorisations shall also be granted to the staff. Can we check when personnel are licensed, so that there is a crossroad for which workers are suspended and who workers continue to work? Finally, with regard to Article 9 of the Act of Legislation of 20 March, Minister, we invite you to withdraw it immediately. This is a difficult act. It is an act which creates many problems for workers. We ask for Article 9 to be withdrawn. Finally, I would like to say, in conclusion, that three times we have tabled an amendment on the inclusion of heavy and unhealthy workers in nursing establishments in the ERC. We learn that you say they've been covered just since 2011 etc. There is indeed that. But the others who are not covered, why don't you now incorporate them as a reward in order to join heavy and unhealthy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u98	Madam President, thank you very much for the time that you will give me in advance to respond, because my colleague has again fully opened up the package of measures taken by the government in this exceptional situation. So I'm starting at the end of my first speech, Mr. President. The average of European countries on the basis of data available is about 2% of GDP. That's the average. Greece, on the basis of the figures from the Ministry of Finance, Minister Stakoura, which we announced the day before yesterday is EUR 6.8 billion for March and April. We are over 3.5% of GDP. So if we should not be petty in politics - and we should not, especially in such political times - we should recognise and what is the reality. Greece gives 3.5 % of GDP, while 2% is the average of the other European countries, which shows sensitivity, reflexes, plan and readiness. It is all these measures that have already been announced. I have told you in my first speech of the interventions we have made at the heart of certain issues of employees, of free professionals. It is already well known that I do not have time in three minutes to make a complete announcement of the measures and measures taken by the three ministries, the government as a whole. However, I will now tell you about what I did not tell you in my first speech and put it again. Of course, Mr Colleague, the question of unemployment is a major one. I repeat that the unemployment benefit has been extended by two months and we are getting thousands of unemployed and long-term unemployed. If necessary, the non-genus, we're ready. We're watching the developments. We are preparing for the next day too, if it is unpleasant, but you appreciate me in a responsible way, assembled and householded. We also have fuel for the end - and I mean the concept - when our national economy is going to have to start again. The issue you mentioned about disabled people, CSRs, pensions, I must tell you that we have taken steps. We also suspended all the committees, and extended the time-limits without review for all, so that those who have applied for do not go and enter into the suffering of confrontation. With regard to matters relating to the welfare state, there is not a single euro missing from the benefits provided. There is a minimum guaranteed income for hundreds of thousands of weak people, Article 21 for family support, the rent allowance. All of this is submitted and paid normally and concerns thousands of our fellow citizens who were before and within this unprecedented crisis. As far as pensions are concerned, I am obliged, Mr Colleague, to make a resettlement on this particular issue, for which I would expect at least one more specific answer from you, because when you put the question of outstanding pensions one, two, three times, let me hear what the Change Movement says and what the proposal is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u99	Ask the Change Movement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u100	So I tell you, Mr President, this: unfortunately, on August 28, 2019, the question that SYRIZA did not ask, as was due, while New Democracy and the Change Movement, the answer is that we received a million fifty-eight thousand outstanding applications, mainly one-off, additional, recalculations, widow's pensions. A bunch of loose ends were handed over by SYRIZA to the Ministry of Labour. What I said in 2012-2014 as Minister, I repeat now. The problem of outstanding pensions is not solved or dealt with only with human resources. Only in one way can we deal with digital transformation. And in 2014 we had the "ATLAS" system interrupted by SYRIZA. Today the pensions would be digital. What do we do now? We have been more dynamic in the area of pensions, the flow of pensions has increased. Unfortunately, the crisis and the special-purpose permit that exists to e-ECA employees is a sign of weakness, because these people are also parents and must be given the special-purpose leave. However, in this direction the compass, the landmark, the flagship we have set as an objective, the digital pension for the month of June if it moves for a few days, weeks or month, is a matter precisely because of the weakness we have. But it remains. You can be sure, Mr Colleague, that this government will act on the digital pension that will give a solution forever to the big problem of decades of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. And now we will be discussing the second question with number 603/23-320 on the second question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct measures to protect workers in the workplace from the coronary". Mr Katsotis, before I give you the floor, I would like to ask you to keep the time to get into legislative work. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u102	Minister, with constant questions from Members of the JRC, they raise important problems and requests from workers of all sectors, particularly seasonal workers in tourism and food, for whom this year the problems will be serious, as will the unemployed, the self-employed and the scientists throughout the country. With this question we are putting the serious consequences of the lack of measures suggested by the scientific community to limit the dispersion of the coronary into workplaces. One measure you have taken, for example, is the ban on meetings of more than ten people and the universal ban, except in six cases, on the movement of citizens. However, large business groups employing hundreds of employees are on top of each other, without even keeping the distance of one metre, by common means of work and by poor cleanliness, due to the reduced number of cleaners. The tails to the banks were first these days. But you are silenced by this criminal attitude of Employees. Every day the complaints of union workers are dozens, while revealing the letters from the employees of telephone and mobile telephony companies from large construction sites, private clinics, industrial units, food factories and from supermarkets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We are, of course, tabling the practical complaints of these associations, so that you can see the size, if you like, of the immunity that exists with regard to measures which are not taken in the workplace. I make these complaints in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government's responsibility is great, because it has not taken any of the measures recommended by the scientists for the protection of workers, and in addition it has suspended control of businesses from the Labour Inspectorate and from the other control mechanisms. It is characteristic that the “ACROPOL” hotel that has been transported for quarantine and has coronary cases obliges workers to offer services, people who have no connection. It is very dangerous for the employer and the government not to intervene, even though they are in the mind of the Minister for Tourism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Business groups, Minister, taking advantage of the pandemic, insecurity and distress of workers, are obliging workers to continue their work without the necessary spatial change, the maintenance of distances, the decontamination of work tools with antiseptics that are non-existent and without appropriate health and safety measures to deal with the pandemic. A characteristic feature of the criminal attitude is the obligation for workers to move to other groups' buildings, which is what you are planning to do in the PPP, by changing two and three public transport instruments and under the same working conditions by exploring workers at an increasing risk, and not just by dispersing the krone. Suspected cases do not carry out a test. It is the responsibility of the worker, says the employer, whether or not to do the test, as the workers denounce. Asymptomatic workers who have coronary cases in their surroundings are forced to hide and come to work. There are great government responsibilities and we ask you whether you intend to take measures to ensure that all the conditions laid down by the scientific community for the health and safety of workers, the people in general, are met in such places of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President, as I thank Mr Katsotis for this interesting timely question which gives us the opportunity to discuss in the Greek Parliament an issue that has its special weight and special treatment within the crisis we are experiencing. Mr Colleague, I have to tell you that both the previous period and the previous one - I continue to say firmly that I have complete confidence in the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate is composed of excellent officials, well-known of the object they have been called upon to do - this is about defending labour rights - and they are doing their job extremely well. The Labour Inspectorate is equipped over time by all governments with computers, with a special organisational framework for its specialised controls, and is supported by human resources, such as the last time it has been strengthened with dozens of young employees. However, we shall mention this at some other time in the House. I also want to tell you that he continues to do his job unintentionally. But I have to agree that I am not one of those who will admit that things are paradise in the labour market. There's never been anything like that. Especially now, however, in such an irregular environment that everything has changed, one cannot say that we can demand that things be as normal as they were before the crisis. However, it is true that the Labour Inspectorate is at the forefront of defending labour rights, and in particular of what you are talking about, about issues relating to dealing with virus dispersion. The Ministry of Labour in collaboration with the RES from the first time the first case of the virus was found, gave guidance to the AEP to activate all the forces to safeguard and safeguard workers against these issues within the workplace. So I want to say to you - and I will say it more thoroughly in my dentistry - that the job is being done. I trust the APRC officials and we support the APRC, because it is the workers' shield. The RCF operates to the extent that it can within this environment, as well as there I cannot say anything about its employees, as all services make use of the special-purpose licence, since they are parents. I can't tell anyone that because he works in this special body he can't get a special purpose permit unless someone else defends that. However, the LFS continues to do its job unrelentingly and measures have already been taken, which I will highlight in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u106	Minister, we do not want to denounce the APRC and its operation, but the government as a whole for the measures it takes or does not take to protect workers in the workplace. That is why, in our question, we have raised these major problems and the need to take immediate measures. However, problems are exacerbated, workers' deadlocks are growing, precisely because at the moment the government in the five legislative acts is taking steps to strengthen the employer's attack on what is left over from the memorandum measures. The "profit" which you serve with this policy and all measures for supposedly protection are spreading pollution to workers and the people. The redundancies, the total overthrow in labour relations, the suspension of the employment contract in part or all of the workers, the reduction in wages by 50% from the rotation of two weeks a month - which my colleague said before to get back, as we do - the working hours set by the employer without direct registration in the 'ERGAN', but which are concentrated in the future, on the Easter gift that passed on to thousands of workers are what your policy of supporting, as you say, workers. The limitation of the trade and democratic freedoms accompanying all these measures strengthens employers' terrorism and the blockage of even the functioning of the Sanctions and Security Committees, while saying that you are supporting the EIC, especially in these circumstances. And here we want to make a statement about the PRAKTIKER employer, which says briefly to the workers that, because all the trade union functions are suspended by the act of legislation, there is therefore no committee or the Committee on Health and Safety. It says so in writing that the workers' unions will be able to do so. In these circumstances, in other words, the Sanctions and Security Committees should be suspended. That's what he tells them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do you agree with that? You have to answer us if you agree otherwise tell us what measures you intend to take. So the employer, with your support, has disembodied. EUR 800 and this is not for all workers because it excludes thousands of seasonal workers, unemployed and others who work with a miserable job - it is certainly much more affected - it cannot cover this allowance, the permanent smashing of workers' rights over the next period. There is also a letter from the extra workers in tourism addressed to hoteliers and the government. And I will put it in the Minutes to see it, Minister, and you will see what size - to say so - the problems these workers face. The Government needs to take immediate measures to protect workers with continuous controls to implement what the scientific community suggests, to immediately abolish all anti-corruption measures of the PPP. We also tabled in the Minutes a resolution from the hundreds of workers' organisations and pensioners claiming specific protection measures directly from the government now, without further delay. We believe that the counter-attack of the working class is a one-way road, it cannot be silenced to be able to claim this overthrow of this policy, which is truly deadly, of course worse than this epidemic that currently prevails in our country, and there must be individual responsibility - we say that there must be - but, beyond that, collective responsibility, government responsibility must be the one that faces the great problems of workers and the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President has the floor for his dentistry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, my dear colleague from the Communist Party of Greece has not avoided politicising the coronary again. It is in the Communist Party's DNA to want to make political confrontation in any environment, even in issues that have been recognised throughout the world as a pandemic. And this crisis, Mr Colleague of the Communist Party, is not only going through Greece, it crosses Europe, it permeates the whole world, powerful economies that are now kneeling. I don't know where what you're talking about. But allow me, because you have criticised me very hard - not personally - the government - for the measures we have taken, I would like to tell you that you are making a huge mistake. At the heart of interest and protection is not your right - the privilege of being a worker. It's ours! We also have to do this at the heart of our politics and ideology. We have man and worker. First and foremost! And we have succeeded in this, in that our policies over the years, our political perception was to create an economy that shapes an environment that through the blooming of the economy to create wealth and wealth to support man and the worker. What's your position? What did you say today? You spoke as if nothing were going on in the surroundings. Well, where's the JRC? Out of place and time? Does Mars live the Communist Party of Greece? Does he not see that 86% of firms are falling apart and closed? Did you hear that, or did you close your ears and say other things to your own people? [[Noise - Protests from the JRC warhead]] You'll get the answers that suit you, Mr. Katsotis. Finally, the ideological - political games! Here you will get the answers that suit you and deserve you! In order to reach agreement, on the basis of the information I have just announced, 86% of Greek businesses are falling apart, whether they have been closed by an administrative suspension or their turnover has suffered serious damage. What do you want to tell me about 86% of Greek businesses? That they steal the workers and break hours? Do you realize what you're saying? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to know that the Greek Government, having the focus of the worker's interest, is asking for one thing on the next day of the crisis: to keep jobs. And we do everything about it, because there cannot be a Greek economy unless there are workers and jobs. And we took steps unprecedented. We took the measure of suspending the contract of employment, putting in a umbrella one million eight hundred, 000 self-employed - who will receive 800 euros - free professionals, that is, all Greek workers. Do you realize that? Are you currently criticising us that we are not interested in workers? We took the difficult measure the unprecedented cancellation of redundancies made after 20 March and put in a clause, a denominator, whatever measure we put for business at any level, or suspension of tax returns, insurance contributions, VAT, discounts, whatever measure we took, to the denominator, there was only one element: the protection of jobs. To sum up, Madam President, I would like to say that my colleague is mistaken on behalf of the Communist Party. He has no privilege to say and claim to have the element of sensitivity. We care about the APRC's controls. We're on top. We're watching the developments. We fight every day and with reduced human resources. Inside the Ministry of Labour there are employees in the Ministry of Labour, in the HICP, in the OPEKA, in the Ministry - I repeat - who are fighting this difficult moment at the moment for the country that has weakened the human resources, all together to support the workers, businesses and the country, so that the next day we can all get together together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u110	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to remind everyone that in the Conference of Presidents we have decided that only the rapporteurs, the special speakers of the bills, the parliamentary representatives, the former Presidents of Parliament and the heads of political groups are present in the Chamber. I would therefore ask anyone who does not participate in the above and who has no job in the Chamber to leave at the moment. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring (a) from 25.2.20 P.M. ‘Koron virus proliferation avoidance and restriction measures’ (A'42), (b) of 11.3.20 P.N.P. ‘Assisting measures to address the negative consequences of the occurrence of COVID -19 and the need to limit its spread’ (A 55) and (c) of 14.3.20 BC. ‘Association of measures to address the need to limit COVID-19 dispersion’ (A'64)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 March 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, in accordance with the process of organised debate on the principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, this House agrees, but we must also respect the previous one you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u112	Yeah. So I'll repeat it. I would ask that anyone who is not working on the substance right now should leave the Chamber. So the House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u113	I would ask that you observe what you say because I do not see it being observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u114	It will be strictly respected. I think that we are all responsible here as political beings, and I think there should not be a second observation and, above all, there should be no personal remark to everyone. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the Ministry of Health's draft law: "Following from 25.2.20 the Legislative Content Act avoiding and limiting the proliferation of the coronary, from 11.3.20 Act of Legislative Content, Efforts to address the negative consequences of the occurrence of the COVID -19 coronary and the need to limit its dissemination and from 14.3.20 Act of Legislative Content Efforts to addressing the need to limit the diffusion of the COVID -19 coronary. Mr Evangelos Liakos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u115	With a little tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u116	Four ministerial amendments are now being tabled and will be distributed immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u117	What's the agenda? We have made decisions in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u118	It's one for the coroner, than they let me know. I haven't seen them yet, to be honest. Look at them and you will make the related comments. They're related to what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u119	Will there be a supplementary budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u120	Colleague, let us give the floor to Mr Liaco, and then immediately thereafter if the Minister wants to make a clarification. Minister, you can then take a minute to make clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u121	It's a proposition. He's inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is no doubt in any of us that the moments we are experiencing are critical and, above all, unprecedented. Humanity is called upon to face an enemy who does not know, does not see him and by the way he scatters death. It is obvious that the whole world and health systems were not and could not have been ready for such a pandemic. At the moment we are talking about two hundred three countries counting almost forty-eight thousand deaths and ninety-five thousand cases. The optimistic messages are not missing, of course, as about two hundred and fifty thousand patients have been healed. Our neighbouring countries lament the loss of a fellow citizen every two minutes. Their doctors are in the unpleasant position to choose who is most likely to be healed in order to intubate him. The entire scientific community, doctors, nurses and ordinary citizens have fallen into the battle against coronary containment in order to save as many lives as possible. I will not hide from you that in the eyes of a new man, such as myself, it is justifiable and also moral satisfaction that the priority given to human beings has been given to all costs. In this country it has become clear from the first days of the virus. The Prime Minister stressed that his main concern is not to lose a patient who would otherwise have been saved. Is there really something more terrible about democracy than being able to offer the good of public health to every citizen when he needs it? With this in mind, then, timely measures were taken with two main objectives. First aim, limiting virus dispersion, gaining time to properly shield the National Health System, not only materials, but also by integrating information and knowledge to combat the disease. Secondly, limiting the negative effects that inevitably affect the economy. These measures are necessary, not only because we must support the economicly affected, but also create the conditions for restoring the economy in a world that we do not know what it will be like next. Ladies and gentlemen, as I am empirically young in my parliamentary duties, I follow all procedures with great interest. In fact, coming from an age group which, unfortunately, has turned its back on politics, I am trying to decode the mistakes we make as Members ourselves. I do not hide from you that I am amazed at my position today, because I believe that at these critical times there is not much room for politics and that any policy pursued by each of us must strictly follow the experts' recommendations. The moments are critical and require seriousness and responsibility from all of us. Unfortunately, however, this is a attitude that has not been adopted by everyone. I've been impressed by the whole attitude of Officer Opposition in the last few days. A characteristic example is Mr Pappa's previous position in committee. Mr. Papapas placed the good course of the pandemic curve in our country for good luck and reduced, he says, citizens' mobility, characteristic of Balkan countries. How then does it explain, Mr Pappas, the outbreak of cases in sparsely populated areas of the United States or in the province of Great Britain, where, strangely and accidentally, there was an oligopoly of the governments? Or even more in Sweden who chose a different model than us? Excuse me, but you sound like you wish the government's plans failed to support your account. But all you do is not just annul the government's measures. That's the least. In fact, you are reducing the effort of millions of Greeks who are closed in their homes to protect themselves and all those who love them. The Qualified Opposition seeks, among other things, to convince Greece that it has taken measures along with other European countries. Really, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to what exactly are the good performances of our country bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u123	Nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u124	It doesn't seem. When they are applauded by the majority of society and without any other proposal on your part. Let me remind you here that the Patras carnival was cancelled on 27 February, almost ten days before the World Health Organisation declared COVID -19 in a pandemic. To accept that it is difficult for you to say a good word about the current government's actions. What I regret, however, is your insistence on falsifying the facts and spreading the fast news. You have filled your loved ones with supposedly imposing capital controls at risk of a crowd of citizens accumulating in the banks at a time when crowding is extremely dangerous. You are accusing us of inciting redundancies, while redundancies have been banned by an act of legislation. What has really happened is that those undertakings that have suspended their activities or have been severely affected by data such as those created by the pandemic have the opportunity to suspend for as long as the crisis takes over their workers' contracts precisely so that they do not have to make redundancies. That is why these workers are entitled to financial aid, which the State undertakes with the allowance of EUR 800. At the same time, the Government suspended all tax and insurance obligations. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You are well aware that the need to extend the MSF is very great, as the data we have from other countries demonstrate the need to incorporate patients with severe symptoms or underlying diseases. And you're spreading that we've doubled the cost of EUR 800 that only concerned the disposal of the ICM - without compensation for the staff - at EUR 1600, while the real cost of a day of hospitalization in a private clinic exceeds EUR 2,000. You are constantly accusing the Government of a few financial support measures, and it is clear that the budgetary cost of the measures is around 3.5% of GDP and is far above the average of the European Union, which is about 2%. You are not talking about the excellent work that has been done at the Ministry of Digital Policy that you have served, Mr. Pappa. Within only a few days, thousands of citizens can be served electronically without requiring their physical presence in public services. You are not talking about supporting the municipality by strengthening the "Help at Home" programme. You are not talking about the dozens of donations that have been made by institutions and businessmen in the country and have helped to overcome the thousands of them. You are not talking about the thousands of volunteers who have offered to help the country by putting their lives at risk. And obviously we talk about the encouragement of our Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, to make 50% of the parliamentary compensation. So I invite you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to support all of this and to prove once again your social person who once considered it an exclusive privilege. And I'm telling you this because any other account you've finished. Party labels have been shot down worldwide. The irreversible capitalist system, as you like to say, frozen time to save a few thousands of human lives. In conclusion, I would like to stress that what is currently happening in the world is certain to bring many reconstructs. The violent change in our priorities, the necessary state interventions, the practical solidarity between both the people and the non-members, the mistaken patriotism shown by some countries, will change theories that have been in place for decades both economic and social. We must all overcome ourselves and stand up to circumstances. Society and citizens have already done so. They choose to stay home, protecting the people they love, wishing to see them alive when this is over. They choose to see the house, not as an forced prison, but as a guardian of personal and public health. They demand us to do all the rest, and that's our debt. Our world, after this experience, will certainly be different. But it's up to us if he's better. I wish wholeheartedly good power to all those who are on the front line of battle. They've already made us proud and I wish good recovery to those who are suffering right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u125	The President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called on Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the House today, which is necessarily a few Members, as we have to do, to present a first report on thirty days of battle against the pandemic, but also on what must be done in the month in which we are going. Because April may prove decisive for the future. What was said above hides care for humans, bold measures for public health, but also the first restrained, I stress the 'conscious', hopeful results. What comes up requires firm commitment to the goal, good planning, discipline, above all unity and solidarity, because we are all equal to the threat. But I am here, serving, Mr President, and a political project. We all believe in parliamentaryism, especially in difficult conditions, such as the ones we are going through. And I will insist on this democratic function, rejecting all authoritarian restrictions, as has unfortunately happened recently in a member country of the European Union, in Hungary. Because when institutional dialogue retreats, lies and rumors and the delusion virus are often as dangerous as COVID -19. So our path is unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily. It is always the path of truth and of the Parliamentary Republic. I would remind you that at the start of this health crisis, many states have either remained viewers or continued their everyday lives awkwardly. In Greece, I believe that we have been a step forward in the face of developments. They were appointed very quickly to report hospitals for the coronary, schools closed down, soon after most of them followed. Very early, very early, an information campaign was launched, which gave citizens' consciences the motto "Home". The planning of the first support measures for workers and businesses has also been carried out, while the coordination of the actions has been undertaken by civil protection, always having a consultative staff of experts. And all this did not happen at a neutral time, because in Evros and the Aegean Sea there was a second front going on: defending national and European borders from the invasion of illegal immigrants that Turkey was organizing. A battle that has fortunately been won for Greece and for Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis is indeed global, it knows neither borders nor social groups. However, its approach is mainly national. They testify to cases and losses in countries with very different power, with a very different size. And in this case the numbers are telling the truth. State sensitivity, coordination, determination, speed seems to be not an issue of economic magnitude at the end of the day. The Netherlands, with a population of 17 million, at the same time showing a first case with Greece, currently has more than ten times the number of patients permeated. Unfortunately, the deaths there are over seven hundred. There is also a similar picture in Belgium, a country with the same population as our country. It shows ten times more cases, the hospitals already touch their limits. And it is true that here we have moved with boldness and courage, and our rapporteur has said so. I remember when we moved on to cancel the carnival events in Patras. We did it before we even had the first case in our country. We were then strongly criticised. In his honour, of course, the mayor, coming from the Communist Party, supported this choice. Of course, I cannot say that the citizens in Patras have completely abstracted. But we have made a bold decision at economic cost, which I believe the citizens were credited to Patras and Achaias and the western Peloponnese. Schools closed in our homeland before the first loss was noted. Most countries followed one or two weeks later and had already mourned dozens of deaths before. And I remember very well the intense discussions that we held at the highest government level when we had to weigh decisions that we knew would have a very large economic impact and whether we had to take them early or relatively late. And we have come to the conclusion that it is much better for these decisions to be taken earlier and not later, and so far it seems, I stress the 'for the moment', to have avoided the traumatic experiences of Italy, Spain, England and the United States. That's what the reality says so far, after five weeks of a race. No, obviously, I'm stressing it, no big cost. We have taken strict measures, measures that are unprecedented in conditions of smoothness, with great consequences for the daily lives of the citizens, with serious burdens on the economy. But society, for its large majority, supported these measures. And here, from the Step of the House, I would like to thank the vast majority of Greek citizens, who have seen the need to impose significant personal restrictions on their freedom in order finally to protect the supreme good, which is no more than the good of public health and the protection of human life. Ladies and gentlemen - I will say this again - we are not at the beginning of the end, we are perhaps at the end of the day. After all, our objective was and remains to be able to earn time so that the public health system does not become overloaded. So far, the Greeks have been doing this. The number of intersected incidents is now considerably lacking in the total number of intensive beds available to us. I am referring to the National Health System intensities and not to the intensive ones we have in a reserve in private hospitals. But I fully understand, and the fatigue of citizens, the anxiety about their jobs and tomorrow. I reiterate the endurance, maturity and responsibility of the Greek society. Every day I thank and thank all their heroes for their white and green blouses, as well as their uniforms and civilian protection officials. But the joint effort - and I would like to stress it again from the Step forward of the House - must continue with the same courage and commitment. April - we are all told by the experts - will be the most critical month. If we relax, we'll pay for it, and we mustn't let that happen. We have already exploited, as I have said, very well the time that we have gained. The five hundred sixty-five ICUs we received became eight hundred seventy. We have more than three thousand empty beds at the moment exclusively for COVID patients, two private hospitals are all integrated into the power of the ESS and the legislative tools we are called upon to ratify today enable us to make full use of the possibilities that the private sector has. Along with two hundred and thirty - seven beds from other clinics, they discharge the pressure on the reference hospitals and the nursing staff grow very quickly. It will go far beyond the two thousand recruitments that we set as the original target. We moved on and continue to move quickly in the supply of health equipment. You know very well that there is a global diplomatic and trade war to be able to obtain simple surgical masks, but also the most advanced masks, FFP2 and FFP3, which we are using exclusively in our hospitals and especially in intensive, but also personal protective uniforms and equipment. All the countries are now claiming these materials and that is why their supply is not an easy case. But, every day, we specifically ensure our health personnel, as well as the police, the Armed Forces, the Civil Protection, the workers in the "Help at home" programme with these "warships" of life. We do so with a programme, with absolute transparency, and we do so, and with the involvement of the private sector, under the coordination of the public sector at all times. The first thing I have said is that the danger may be common, but in defence against it, everyone is invited to offer according to their powers. I think I am entitled to ask myself: is it wrong in the end what is not a state? Because individuals are funding the operation of over five hundred intensively treated beds in total, they have offered over nine hundred respirators, as they have offered donation products. Millions of masks arrive in our country, hundreds of thousands of gloves, uniforms, tons of drugs that our doctors need. I want all this at public health service. I therefore congratulate all the institutions and all the institutions for their initiatives. It would be nice to find more imitators. At such times the present, but also the absent, whoever they are and wherever they are, are judged. On this occasion, Mr President, the important donation of the House deserves to be noted. It is very commendable that thanks to this donation, the Salvation Hospital, which is currently at the forefront of the battle against the coronary, will on a permanent basis acquire a strong and modern intensive treatment unit, with a capacity of fifty beds. Ladies and gentlemen, first care of the government is the Greeks who have to stay healthy and stand up so that they can rebuild all the pandemic's pandemics and with businesses ready to restart the development machine. This is why four packages of financial aid amounting to about EUR 10 billion have been planned and announced in 30 days. It is an important intervention and is clearly moving above the European Union's average as a percentage of GDP. Our main concern was and remains the maintenance of jobs, but also fair - I stress it - and horizontal social care. In many states, in most of the states - I imagine that the officers of the Officerial Representation will know - compensation was percentage points. I read, for example, that in Denmark the maximum compensation that the state can pay exceed EUR 4,000. We in Greece have chosen a horizontal aid of EUR 800, which has spread to almost all the workers. The most beneficial of this policy, or those who are ultimately harming less, are low wages, are low incomes. You are aware of the measures already in place: redundancies have been banned. Workers first receive a fee of EUR 800, while maintaining all their insurance rights, which also applies to professionals and self-employed persons. Unemployment benefits are extended. Those in trouble have a 40% discount on their rent. Civil servants work - many of them now - by teleworking, while all workers with children up to 15 years of age can get special leave, the cost of which the employer shares with the state. In another field, professionals and businesses are immediately relieved of their obligations. Where economic activity is interrupted, tax and loan debt payments are deferred and an extensive repayment horizon, those who are affected will be financed with a billion euro from the new instrument of the Ministry of Finance, that of the repayable advance. Finally, companies also acquire new sources of lending and financing, which can reach 8 billion euros. They will come from the European Investment Fund, the European Investment Bank, from the Greek Development Bank and from the State. And that is extremely critical. Apparently, there's no economy without life. But there is no good life without growth. And there is no growth without prosperity at work and without support for entrepreneurship. The recent fourth wave of our decisions announced by the co-legislative ministers for Economic, Development and Labour a few days ago also completed our coherent plan for the next two months. Thus, for workers, the EUR 800 allowance now extends to a million of seven hundred thousand employees, almost all of the private sector's potential. This amount is duty-free and irreparable and will be accompanied by a deferral of payments of insurance contributions and tax liabilities. However, if they are paid, there will be a single discount of 25%. No one's gonna miss Easter's present. In addition, by 10 April, one - I prefer to call it - 'the provision of moral recognition' will be paid, especially to the first-line fighters. The state in this way honors their excellent social offer and will reward a hundred and eight thousand doctors, nurses, executives of the EKA and civil protection. As for enterprises, almost eight thousand, i.e. about three out of four, are now subject to the protection index, as are 86% of the CIFs, Activity Numbers, while almost all benefit from the favourable arrangements for the suspension of VAT and tax debts, a three-month suspension of instalments to informing bank loans, an extension of cheques until 31 May. Finally, for freelance professionals, the vast majority of them, about seven hundred thousand, is also part of the beneficiaries of 800 euros. Especially the scientists will receive this aid from the beginning of May. In April, however, they will also be able to collect EUR 600 through training programmes. Although a lot of criticism has been made of this initiative by the Government, I would like to stress that it is a first-class opportunity to make use of European funds which would otherwise be inactive at this juncture. These measures, of course, have a cost. We have, however, secured the financial margins to cover them. That is why we can also make EUR 150 million available today for targeted support measures for the primary sector to support our farmers. Already, the supplementary state budget increases the finances of the Ministry of Finance by about 5.1 billion. He'll be here for approval in the House too. From the first moment we have achieved and claimed the obvious, what all the other states claim, but for Greece, which has been in special status, was not a given: maximum fiscal flexibility to deal with the crisis. We also finally joined the new programme of quantitative relaxation. Obviously, all the targets for the high surpluses of the year 2020 were also suspended. We have succeeded in relaxing the rules on State aid to enterprises within the framework of a single European regulation on the relaxation of the framework for competition law and State aid. Tomorrow, the European Commission announces the new framework for flexibility in the use of ESDP resources. Excellently important! It incorporates almost all our demands. I sent a letter of 15 days ago to the Commissioner responsible, so that we can absorb even more funds in 2020 with the greatest possible flexibility. All the above, of course, may give answers to yesterday's problems. But we know very well that it is not enough for today's and tomorrow's challenges. As the health crisis is lasting and transnational, its management must be permanent and pan-European. I therefore endorse the words of a great European, Jacques Delor, who, on his ninety-four, warned that at this juncture, a lack of solidarity puts Europe at risk. I strongly support the establishment, the creation of a new effective joint lending instrument. Common problems require common solutions. It is a proposal which Greece is proposing. I signed the letter to the President of the European Council, Mr Michelle, together with another eight European leaders. And I believe that other countries which have not subscribed to the original text now recognise this need. In this crisis there are no good and bad. There are no responsible and irresponsible. There is no moral risk dimension. 2020 is neither 2010 nor 2015. We are talking about a symmetric shock, which is hitting supply and demand at the same time in all European economies. We therefore need dynamic initiatives to return to a Europe, as Delore once again describes it, with the competition that it mobilizes, with the solidarity it unites and with the cooperation it strengthens. Regardless of today's debates and the strong disagreements expressed at the last summit, I am sure that ultimately a solution to what I have described will emerge. However, it is intended not to come too late, when it is perhaps insufficient and when European values, democracy, cooperation, the notion of solidarity in difficulties, when these concepts on which the United Europe was built may have been irreparablely affected. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first moment of this pandemic, I have stressed that no governmental measure can deliver, unless citizens embrace it and if they do not translate it into everyday practice, if we do not all believe that this temporary travel restriction is for our own good, and if we do not all agree that some changes in our habits are the safe way to repeat them tomorrow. Personally, I don't like to "swing the finger". Such a teaching role, after all, and because of idiosyncrasy, I could not serve it. I am a fan of consensus, of political maturity. I firmly believe in the democracy of persuasion. That is why I honor the many people who are disciplined in the common interest. Their patience is salvages. And I insist that I make strict criticism of the few who are hitting it. Their irresponsibility is criminal. With real interest, therefore, I call again on the citizens to follow those rules which have so far made Greece a positive example. The Easter of Love must this year become an Easter of responsibility and life. So let us stay pioneers and winners until the end and stay safe at home to become part of the solution. I'll say it again: if we relax now, we'll pay for it tomorrow. We have other arrows in our patron. In the hands of all of us, however, it is not to be forced to use them. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to listen to every serious criticism, every useful proposal. But it is not time for short-sighted opposition or much more for obscene attacks. My assessment is that it is not right for SYRIZA to criticise us for recruitment when within a few weeks half of what SYRIZA had announced in a period of four and a half years. On the contrary, I listen carefully to Mr Xanthos' comments on primary care. This afternoon, the Ministry will make relevant announcements. I'll accept, gentlemen, that, for the prices of MDUs, you compare apples with oranges, counting the value of a bed with that of a complete unit with medical staff, machines, consumables. I would also like to acknowledge that you are ignoring that the international literature calculates the price of an IF at levels much higher than the ones we have defined. And to tell you, too, that private sector IDs, which have so far been exploited, belong to the beds provided by the private sector free of charge to the National Health System. However, what I am not going to tolerate is cheap threats of the type "when we return will be accounted for", and also the reproduction of health hazards from politicians' lips. Because, unfortunately, all of this is called and makes it called your Members and Members of Parliament. It's an opportunity today, Mr. Tsipras, to choose which person you want SYRIZA finally to have. Personally, I don't have to account with anyone, but I have to give everyone an account. I will not get carried away into easy promises or simple words. We are moving decisively, but also wisely with steps that support the economy without undermining the country's credibility. Because those who today are rushing to seek endless benefits are like sending Greece from now to a new memorandum. So let them be careful what they are asking for, because they are being exposed. I will personally stick to the language of truth and will continue to trust specialists, scientists, technocrats, those who have so detested the years of crisis and populism. Some have, unfortunately, chosen to give ideological colour to this pandemic. They told us that it was a matter of rich, Christian, that the end of neoliberalism is taking place. Some others rushed to talk about a triumph of imprisonment. I'm sorry, but all these analyses are just out of the question. At these moments, the only ideology is the prophylaxis of public health. There is no greater ‘salus patriae’ than the rescue of its citizens. The state has, fortunately, shown that it can actually stand up to the circumstances. A state that protects, but does not oppress. A state that guides without riding. Ladies and gentlemen, the weapons that we are now on the front line of the war against the coronary will not be swept out the next day. All the tools we are developing to shield the country will become the means for the reconstruction of tomorrow. In this crisis, the gov.gr gate, the new digital state, went very fast. Already services from forty-nine public structures are provided electronically without suffering for the citizens. We managed and did in a few weeks what we had been urging to do in months and what others did not do for years. The intangible prescriptions were established. Over seven hundred thousand students are first taught on such a scale by computer from tens of thousands of teachers. The world of work has experienced new adjustments. I would like to stress once again and to make it quite clear that the excellent interventions made in labour legislation only concern - I will say it again - at the time of the crisis. The common need has accelerated the cooperation of the public and private sectors, particularly in the field of health. It seemed that she can actually save forces, enrich medical equipment, promote know-how and eventually produce a better result for the citizen. In this crisis we do not just support the National Health System, but we prepare it for its new course in the 21st century. Today it's standing, tomorrow it'll be taller. From this adventure, we're definitely going out tied up. We will, however, be won with greater faith in individual sensitivity, but also in our collective forces and with the faces of worthy, honest Greece, whether they are behind the nurse's mask or advising us with the modest voice of Professor Tsiodra. These are the faces that deserve modern Greece. All of us will leave behind today's trial, having become more mature, having been more trained in volunteering, having become more familiar with the large donations, but also with small donations, having become familiar with the initiative, but also with the group work, but, above all, having restored the confidence of citizens towards the state, to the state and to their fellow citizen. All of this forms the patriotism of responsibility and will become the materials of a geographically small country, but with great people, of tomorrow's Greece. I shall close, Mr President, with a reference to the French historian Jean Delimo, who wrote about fear in the epidemics. I read: "In these circumstances the notion of average man is crushed and then only two things can be, or inactive or heroic, nothing else." To this question, then, we answer, by deciding to lift ourselves above our powers and all to overcome our personal average, as this battle is tempting, so that we can take him even higher when it becomes a past. Until then, we are staying home as "free-sieged" besieged, but choose to be besieged, precisely because they are free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. Mr President, give us a minute to take some necessary precautionary measures at the Step, as recommended by the Health Service. There are a few few who will do us a favor not to be inside. Mr. Bagiokos will tell you, because they're more than the number we've decided on. Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Karathanasopoulos, who sit very close to each other, can they move away and sit elsewhere? As far as you can see, there are empty seats in the New Democracy. No one's going to get you wrong. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, is called at the harmless Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u128	But they are not listening to you, Mr President. Since this morning, we've been telling you about what we need to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Loverdo, it's the ones that need to be in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u130	However, the picture I have from the Step is the image of a parliament, which is in an emergency. At the level of the Heads of State or Government there is an almost empty seat debate and this is extremely awkward for all of us, but I believe that the parliamentary procedure, despite the exceptional situation we are experiencing, cannot and must not be suspended. We have a duty to protect public health, to prevent the spread of the virus as far as possible, but of course we must also protect the democratic function. That is why I think it is extremely important that today's sitting is taking place, even in these exceptional circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that our country is in the war of a global health crisis, with an unprecedented dimension, which causes many to talk about the greatest test of humanity after World War II. We all agree, I think, that in these conditions the main, the main, is human life, is to protect people, protect the lives of all people and everyone separately, regardless of what their age is, what their religious or political position is or in any other group or category. It's about human life. All these days I believe that all of us, the great, the vast majority of the Greeks, each and every one of us, are fighting our battle. But there are also some who give the battle to the front line. And they're putting this battle at risk for their own health. First of all, then, we must support these people. I am referring to doctors, nurses from the National Health System, who are fighting titaniums, often without the necessary supplies, as they are denounced, and at the risk of their own health and their own lives, but just to protect and save other human lives. And this is extremely important, it is an extremely important value. Let me say that these people teach us all a lesson about the value of humanism and solidarity. I think that this crisis that we are living in can lead us to reassess values that had regressed to the collective subconsciousness of Greek society. In any case, I believe - and we have proved this - that this is not the time to think about party benefits, it is not the time for impression games or to trade in drama. Of course, however, we must not allow the wolves to take time now, which, on the bulwark, are pleased to see, by closing eyes or by favouring interests and groups that see this crisis as an opportunity. The crisis may be an opportunity, but not an opportunity for speculation, not an opportunity for plans to rectify damaged practices. The crisis is perhaps an opportunity to see who is, to see who stands seriously and responsiblely at the side of the people who are being tested and who is testing the strengths of our people, looking for political, party, personal or economic gains. The crisis is also an opportunity to see how valuable and irreplaceable the National Health System and the social state are. The National Health System and the Social State that so many attacks have been committed in recent years, especially in the years of the major economic crisis. And it may be an opportunity to realize - perhaps in the most painful way - where they can lead to certain ideas, especially when they become a political act. Ideas that want all goods - and the supreme one that protects human life, that is, the good of health - to be regulated by the laws and rules of the market. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we will all be judged by our standpoint in this crisis. And we'll all be judged for everything when the time comes. Government, opposition, parties, institutions, faces, everyone. But now, what is important is the battle of life. In this battle, however, SYRIZA, I believe - and I would like to say this openly to everyone - and the other parties of opposition, Prime Minister, have given them the floor and act as they are present on the first day. Because in your speech you made some suggestions. I wish that the 1/10 of this responsibility indicated by the Qualified Opposition today and the other parties in the face of this crisis, you too, when you were in the opposition's position, could show it on critical issues. Not so crucial, of course, for public health, not, but for critical national issues. I wish! In any case, we have supported and supported an effort to limit the spread of the virus by strict, restrictive measures. I remember communicating and encouraging Mr Kikilia, the Minister for Health, to proceed with these restrictive measures which the Greek society at the time did not understand any of their usefulness. It was the day, just before it was decided to close the schools. We have supported and supported the efforts of doctors, nurses, the people of the state mechanism involved in this difficult battle. We have supported and supported the people of hardship, scientists, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, the unemployed, the farmers, all those who, i.e., are 'wrong' the economic blade of the crisis and are at the moment blurred and tomorrow's oath. 'We support', but - I want to make this clear - it does not mean that we are silent, that we are not criticising the wrong texts, that we are wrong, in errors, in injustices, in class-policy favors to those who have them. "We support" does not mean silence, especially when even today, almost a month later, we listen to people from public hospitals, those who are on the front line of battle, the heroes, which we often say, with white and green uniforms screaming agony, that they have not yet been supported by the appropriate health material to give this battle. These people have not been supported because, of course, the recruitments have gone ahead, but people - all at least - have not yet gone to work. So that is why we need to be here, and that is our responsibility to highlight these issues. And that's not populism. "We support" certainly does not mean seeing the same ideas that we had in the past translate in the midst of the crisis into benefits to financially powerful groups, especially when voices are already being heard about the need to have new wage cuts and pensions in the next few years. I should like to refer to economic issues. There is therefore no doubt that restrictive measures are necessary. I too would like to thank the Greek citizens who have been very responsible for this crisis and who are self-suppressing their own freedoms. However, in order to protect everyone's life and health, these measures are not enough. These measures give us a little time to cover the gaps quickly. Time to win. And I will agree with you on what you said that we should not precede because April is critical. Indeed, our country is, in comparison with other countries, in a relatively positive figure, as positive as it can be, when it compares deaths and when it comes to loss of human life. We're about five per million people. However, the next few days will indeed be crucial. The scientists do not know the behaviour of the virus, whether it will be endemic, or whether it will be like other coronary viruses, whether it will have a reduction in elevation when the temperature rises or not. So we need this lost time to take advantage of it. So we must move at high speed and with a unique aim: no one with reliable health care in the face of this pandemic. This, in our view, means, firstly, adequate measures for the personal protection of health, those we are sending to the battle. Here, there are no claws, no controversies, no political positions. It's obvious. Of course, they don't fit bureaucratic claws. Here, all that matters is the need to protect the people in the front line as effectively as possible. The second thing we need is to increase, as far as possible, the available public intensified treatment beds. And that, of course, means beyond the need to have access to logistics infrastructure - respirators, etc. - to have hired doctors and nurses. Of course, it also provides for the use of intensive private-sector beds, in terms of public interest and not in terms of speculative robbery. Our ideological differences are well known. I have heard you today say that it is not bad what is private. Nobody said it was bad. No one said it was bad. But, at the time human life is important, we all come to the public system, regardless of ideological position. Everybody! A few months ago, from this Step, consistent in your opinion, you criticised us because we wasted - you said - a lot about local health units and primary care. In fact, you told us that you would proceed to public-private partnerships in public hospitals. Look out! All those who would rush to make use of public infrastructures in order to gain more - private clinics, private nursing establishments, private doctors - today, where are they? Today, all these people have disappeared. Today, what's going on? Today, private nurses give the opportunity to the citizens who have the financial opportunity to take the test, paying ten times more - rather, to be precise, collecting ten times more, because the EEAO pays it - than it pays when the test is done in a public hospital, but if, if the non-genus, the patient is a body, then those who also offer him in the home with express services, this test, in order to get a higher profit, raises hands up. And the patient goes to the public system. In this context, then, what we have been telling you at the very first moment has been very simple: to test the potential of private nursing units in order to become centralised. Of course, this order will obviously have some compensation. There's no requisition, no compensation. But here we are facing something which we must denounce. Because to date, the law has been saying 800 euros, and it has gone twice, at 1,600 euros, the bed. And for those who were from the outset the crisis privates in the health sector continue with the EUR 800, while the others who now enter, i.e. large nursing centres, private units, will have double. This does not make sense under the laws of the market economy. We are not talking about a socialist situation here. We are talking about market and demand laws. So, in our view, there is a need for beds to become centralised. Also, as far as the recruitment of medical and nursing staff is concerned, no one will criticise you, because in one month's time, even if you have changed your minds from what you have been telling us for too many years ago about the value of strengthening the public health system, you have not been able to do so. But be careful! The necessary must be done and it must be done quickly. We made nineteen and a half thousand recruitments in years of commemoration. I don't want to make comparisons now. It's not the time to make comparisons. But, in any case, these two thousand recruitments - you consider them sufficient - to complete them quickly. We say they may not be enough. That's why we asked for four thousand recruitments. Above all, we have asked that these people who are now in public hospitals on the front, with insufficient means, the subsidiary doctors who are contracted, at least for these people, as a lasting reward for what they are doing, should proceed to contracts and be permanentised. So we believe that now is the time to invest in the National Health System and in public health. Also, on the subject of the tests, I made a report beforehand. We're not experts. Listen to the experts, you're talking. And not to be all the experts. However, while listening to and reading interventions from top scientists from the World Health Organisation, everyone says that it is obviously necessary for the quarantine measures - let me say so - to social distance - I do not like the term, but let me use it - but that they are not enough. They need, especially when we get to the stage where we are slowly going to want to start the rest of life, mass tests, so that all the suspected cases are tested, that this world does not begin to come out again if it is a vector of the virus, even asymptomatic and re-rolling. The picture that exists so far is that in this area, we have a significant delay and this significant delay must be tackled quickly. And, of course, in order to deal with it, we must not only stay with those bodies that are currently conducting the process, but also include other public research centres, including university medical schools that can do so with a great deal of skill. I'm going to another crucial issue. You referred to primary health care too. Between "We Stay Home" and the hospital, there must be an intermediate link and this link is primary health care. Therefore, as soon as possible, health centers, local health care units should be integrated into the design, regional hospitals, contracted doctors with EOPY, freelance doctors in a single network of patient care, which the ESS will relieve, but also the citizens, patients or not, will offer the certainty of medical support. Finally, mobile health care teams for patients at home. We had two tragic incidents in the country. I am thinking here of our fellow citizens, because obviously this virus is extremely subtle and at a high speed it can exacerbate the health of the body. We had an incident in Athens, in the Sweet Waters, and one in Castoria. Forty-one-year-old woman stayed and died in the house helpless. This must not be repeated. We have a responsibility not to repeat itself. It's another thing to give the man everything you can to save him and not to get him any more advice to stay home and die helpless. So our proposal is particularly for people suffering from chronic and serious illnesses and staying home, without systematic monitoring and care, to have mobile health teams for the medical surveillance of these patients. Of course later these groups can also contribute to diagnostic tests for the virus. And finally, there are some of our fellow citizens who are more vulnerable than everyone else. I am referring to guests in nursing homes, psychiatric hospitals, privileged institutions, prisoners, homeless people, drug addicts, refugees, immigrants, Roma people. There must therefore be special care for these groups, because the virus in these groups will not be differentiated. Allow me now to say a few words about the economic issues as I cry, Mr President, from the initial 20 minutes, which you kindly gave me. I hope I don't get far. Look, our assessment is that in the same way that we are rushing to address the issue of public health, namely preventive, in the same way we must rush to address the issue of the economy. I do not want to be a veteran of evil, but I fear and say this with great honesty and a sense of responsibility, that we are at risk as many sacrifices and as many labors as the Greek people have done all these years to get out of the crisis, to be lost within a few months. Of course, we are not in the face of a phenomenon which only concerns Greece. It's symmetrical and it's global. We therefore need to ensure that losses are as few and, above all, that there is the easiest possible return, the easiest possible recovery in the economy. And here I think we are faced with two different approaches. The approach taken by you, I read it in an editorial of your staff and I hear it, is that we must not now face up to the problems, because the moment of recovery will come and there will be needs, and then we must come with whatever amount available, to deal with the liquidity of the market at that time. I think it's wrong. If I may, Mr Stavoura, an exaggeration in my speech, I would say that this fits the logic of the immunity of herds, of course, which concerns the epidemiologists and not the economists. What do I mean, though? What does herd immunity say? He says a large percentage will be infected. Let him get infected. Those who are not strong, the middlemen and the powerless will be infected - I mean at the level of endurance of the organization - but will gain immunity so that at some point the strong will be protected. But those who will get sick may not survive! So in the economy now. If, during these two, three - let us hope it is not more - months of closure, small and medium-sized enterprises will be closed. The strongest ones can stand. Maybe! Maybe some strong ones won't take it. So if they close, then they will not be able to reopen. So what then? What do you have to do to strengthen those who have endured? Those who have proved endurance and have had economic potential to stand up to help them with liquidity? This, in my opinion, because it cannot be an accidental approach, is a plan - I hope it is not yours, but if it is, I ask you to change strategy - deep restructuring for the Greek economy, with only winners of those who won and the years of the crisis, 2010 and then, big businesses. I think, therefore, that, of course, given the financial possibilities that I know very well - but I also know that all Europe at the moment is in a great debate - thankfully you have taken the right side in the debate. And I am glad to say that these views were never yours, for example, for the Eurobond. Fortunately you've taken the right side. And you know I have the magnanimity to say when you do something right. Like for example - Mr Velopoulos laughs - I have the great pleasure of telling you that you have rightly sent congratulations to Northern Macedonia, thanks to our efforts and the accession process begins in the European Union. But you were saying before, but it doesn't matter. You're right. That is right, therefore, now, you are in favour of new tools to tackle the crisis in the European Union. We do not know what end this conflict will have, but I fear that we may be ahead and hopefully not to come true in a crisis involving the unity of the European Union itself. In any case, however, we now have an advantage. What's that? That we're not an exception. In 2010 we were the exception that caused the crisis along with the "PIGS" they were saying, with Spain, Portugal and Italy. Now it is symmetrical for everyone too. Of course, we have the great advantage that the country has come out of the memoranda and that the country has not entered the credit line, as Mr Stournaras asked us then and you were flirting with this idea. Because if they had entered a credit line, the memorandum would have been the only development. Also, the country has an important security pillow of EUR 35-37 billion, which can enable us to finance our needs following this crisis. So, with this data, what I ask you to do is to do exactly what others do in Europe and not less. I do not know why you have given the example of Denmark. However, I could very briefly compare the amounts that have already been decided in important countries of the European Union to spend on guarantees, but also on budgetary intervention, which are much more, multiples of what you have already decided. Already in Germany - which is, of course, very simple within it, where it operates in reasonable Cases, but for everyone else it is with reasonable Friedman - we have 15% of GDP spending, 10% of guarantees, 5% of budgetary intervention. In Spain and Italy we have 20%, in France 12%. And when we see in Spain and Italy having such a great deal of expense, it has a great importance and a great value. Why? Because Greece is no longer a systemic risk to Europe. Are you going to disprove me? If you're going to disprove me, I'll listen with caution if that's not the cost. These are the costs, however. Obviously, we include both guarantees and budgetary interventions. Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u131	Financial assistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u132	Yes, all right, 5% of GDP is budgetary intervention in Germany. You want me to tell you in detail? In Germany we have a 356 billion-dollar plan, 10% of GDP, 156 billion-dollar budget, including 50 billion-dollar support to small and medium-sized enterprises and free traders, the creation of a Special Stability Fund, which is planned to provide 100 billion-dollars for the State-owned stock market in affected companies, 400 billion-dollar guarantees, debt write-offs, 100 billion-loan to the State Development Bank, KfW, which provides unconditional loans to affected companies. We're talking about huge sums. But you took me out of my mind. So I was saying - and this is the conclusion of everything I want to say - that Italy does not have the debt we have in proportion to GDP. But look at an absolute number what it is. If there is a systemic risk of seriousness for the euro area today, this is Italy. Her debt is 130%. With these interventions it will obviously become much bigger. So what I want to say is let us use this crisis in the economic field as an opportunity to do what we have to do in time, so that it is less costly and that we can all join the claim group together, on the front of retaliatory proceedings in a European context together with Italy, together with Spain, together with Portugal and France, which understands that the European Union can no longer be a discipline camp that will decide at the end of the day what the Germans, who in their homes, are wasting, but for the others, they say: 'Get away from the fund to cut you off'. So on this front, then, to claim the prospect of a united Europe in the way its peoples should be envisioned, with solidarity. But until then, you have spent a large package of support for the economy and business and especially for the job support. It is a complete mistake to go to the logic of job suspension and not to the protection of work. It is like saying to businessmen: 'Okay, you're suspending contracts and we're giving an allowance'. And this allowance - I beg your pardon - of EUR 800 is forty-five days. In the month above it's under the minimum wage, it's 533 euros. Also, it is wrong to see your understanding of scientists and small and medium-sized and professionals, which you had also made an election flag. The 600 euros -300 and 300 euros - of vouchers is a very big mistake. First of all, because it is a message of how we are implementing training programmes, Fake programmes. We say that all scientists are untrained and don't know computers and we make fake programs - knowingly everyone - to get 300 euros. And we underestimate them and make them reasonable that these programmes must be done in a fake way. Scientists are right. It's not SYRIZA. I talked to them and the lawyers and the engineers. They're right to be indignant about this behavior. Finally, you spoke - and rightly so - about the moral danger. There's no moral danger. We're totally in agreement. But you should also tell the Greek bankers whether they can open up the cannabis and finance any business and proceed immediately, if there is no moral danger, to an extension, at least until the end of the year, of your decision to lift first home protection. Since there is no moral danger at the time of the crisis, there are no strategic mispaids. Why, then, do you leave that and do not announce it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u133	The President of the parliamentary group of the Change Movement, Mrs Fotini Genomes, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this before, but I will repeat it. It seems that a 'black swan' changes the flow of history, changes the world as we know it to this day, changes each of us and we should take that into account. A lot of things, when this cycle is completed, will have changed, of course, in politics too. I hope and hope that the first thing that has been defeated is populism and cynicism, the perception that the market can solve all its problems on its own, because it is clear that this perception is simply not the case. It is clear in the crisis that we are going through that problems are not solved by markets alone, that politics is necessary - politics is shades, a state is well organised and a strong public health system is absolutely necessary. I would like to refer here to what has been said by both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. I was amazed to see the plebiscite report by the Prime Minister at the stand of the opposition parties, showing a generosity deficit, Prime Minister, which does not match what is going through the country and the attitude of all of us. It sends the wrong messages to the Greek people and puts us all in thoughts in relation to the second thoughts that led to this attitude. As far as what has been said by the Chief of Police Representation is concerned, I have to note that I am truly pleased that, even now, he accepts the proposals of the Change Movement on what must happen to the National Health System, which was clearly not done in previous years. These four thousand recruitments were heard almost every two months from 2015 until now, until today. And since some people seem to be acting in the political life of the place as if we are not there or for some reason not listening to us, I am obliged to testify for the Minutes, to restore the truth and to defend the work of tens of members of the Change Movement who are working, even from a distance, but with great interest and care to be useful in the place, the following. On 22 January, our competent Members are asking a question to see in time and to warn whether there are any means of protection for health workers. As of 20 March, a question was sent to hospitals to see how they will deal with the deficiencies. I'll give it to you together in the file so you don't get one - one page. As long as we can be careful. On 14 March, following my telephone call with the Minister responsible for health, I give the public an integrated proposal on all matters, on intensive care units, on reference hospitals, on first-stage centres, on mobile first-stage workshops - what we call the 'first-stage' - on the qualification of private laboratories and all the issues that concern us all this time. On 22 March we specialize in the proposal on the 'first line' and how they can and must operate mobile workshops that go home and why they must be done. On 28 March we draw up a new information note, updated, having followed all the developments and, of course, the shortcomings and problems that still exist in the health system. I am tabling all this for the Minutes, because it is important to restore the truth about the contribution of the Change Movement throughout this period and to draft concrete proposals. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] So I'm going back to this war we're all giving and we're going to have to give it together. We're at war on three fronts. The first front is the delay and retention of virus dispersal, to save human lives. I hope this is where we've gone well. I hope and hope we've made it. The second front is about the effective protection of public health, which certainly requires the support of the ESS, because it is the flagship of the war we are giving, but also because it is extremely important for the national health system to be strengthened and for the future, not just for the present day. The third front is that of the economy. Europe is clearly also involved here, but it also needs a comprehensive recovery plan, a plan which requires consultation of political forces and dialogue with the social partners, a plan that must support the productive base of the economy, but also protects workers. The Change Movement from the first moment supports all the measures indicated by specialist scientists. This is what the vast majority of the Greek people do. I want to state clearly that we trust the scientists who lead the state all this effort in this fight. In parallel to our proposals and initiatives, as I said before, we are making a real contribution, because we want to be useful, because we want to make the Greek people feel safe. It's very important in this fight. The krone, ladies and gentlemen, leaves no room for krone and populism. At the same time, it leaves no room for working out the crisis and for customer practices. We do not hesitate to point to mistakes and omissions by the government and its institutions, to prevent them and to correct them, because this is the task of responsible Opposition at this time. There is therefore a distance from the decisions of scientists and the timely implementation of the measures by the Government and its institutions. Unfortunately, we have delays. There is, of course, a question of individual responsibility. No one's questioning it. At the same time, however, there is also the political responsibility of the state to prevent and implement decisions in time, effective and fair. The state's debt is to predict and prevent. And I say this on the occasion of the tails we have seen in the banks. The government sees the crowd first and then reacts. The same was the case with the churches, which delayed the decision. The same thing happened with the supermarkets, and the same is happening with the banks. It could be taken in time, as the banks have drastically reduced their stores and this is known. Also, why have the measures to facilitate debt payments not been taken in time? The dates for the termination of the accounts of the CECE shall be indicative and not mandatory, at least as long as the restrictive measures apply. Is it possible in these circumstances that limitation deadlines should apply to the accounts in water, electricity and telephone? Do you realize that it can cut off these benefits? The prolongation by the competent authorities could have been given in time and not all run at the last minute to settle accounts and instalments. In addition, pensions could be broken down by the alphabet earlier. And, by the way, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what will happen at last to the huge bank charges? Are you going to force them to limit them? They send all citizens to the ATMs, and they come there and check them out! How long will that last? I would point that out, because as the scientists say, and as you said earlier, we have a road ahead of us. We're not done. We therefore need close monitoring of developments, prevention and fast reflexes. I would therefore like to contribute once again to this debate with the specific proposals of the Change Movement on all these fronts to which we are fighting. I'm starting with the front of the National Health System. Everyone has now accepted the irreplaceable role of the ESS and, of course, how heroic their operatives and attitudes are. We thank everyone once more. In addition to the measures taken, however, four important issues need to be tackled. Firstly, we must act on our proposal for the first line network with the contribution of primary health care, i.e. mobile staircases for doctors and nurses who will also visit the home where they will check and test, give instructions for better care and provide hospitality at home. We have tabled, as I said earlier, this proposal since 14 March. I have discussed it with the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible. The government has announced days ago that it will go ahead with the adoption of this proposal. Unfortunately, however, until now, it has not been implemented. What are the benefits of this proposal and why do we insist? First, he keeps the cases away from hospitals so that he can withstand the system so that the sanitaryians don't get into quarantine whole sanitary units. Secondly, we will have better monitoring if the fewer tests that I understand we have, we make use of them and we do so where, as a suggestion of the coordinating centre that exists for all of them and the doctors responsible, and we do not waste them on tests in various private laboratories with great prices. Second, what have we seen in the last few days? Unfortunately, we saw cases deaths, which, according to doctors' instructions, remained for hospitalisation at home. This means that it needs an upgrade of care at home. In addition, the subject of tests has to go ahead. I will not get tired of stressing their importance in dealing with the spread of the virus and in protecting all the workers in the ESS, because they should be given priority. At last, make use of the unified design, with a single invoice, and the private centers, as well as the university and research centres that are still out, because this will give a better picture of the dispersal and more effective way of dealing with it. I would point out here that they will need particular attention in the second phase of the treatment of the coronary. I will then come to this matter. Third point: A daily availability card of intensive treatment beds and beds in reference hospitals is needed. It is good that we all know, and of course the scientists who process all this data, how many cases are treated outside intensive care units in all reference hospitals. They don't give these evidence, and I wonder why. We should know, apart from how many people are hospitalized at the ICU, how many cases are being hospitalized and how many hospital beds are available per sanitary district. I would like to stress this: out of my mind. It is very crucial for better preparation, but also for reasons of transparency and a sense of security for citizens. Fourthly, valid studies of the cost per day of beds in the ICMs have been published. Prime Minister, we take a position on the basis of three published studies and our position is vindicated, the position we have expressed. It is completely unacceptable that the cost is up to 883 euros together with the wage costs and that the government pays 1,600 euros each private-sector IF bed it uses. That's a contributory contribution. It seems finally, Prime Minister, that your government finds you money where it wants to give it. And it's not the only example of health. Fifth point: 'thank you' to the fighters in the first line must be done in practice, so that the government accepts our proposal to join the heavy and unhealthy workers in the public health system, as is the case in the private sector. This injustice must end. And of course extend Easter's allowance to police and military officers, because all of them are fighting the front line. So it is time to accept the amendment we have tabled three times in the House. I come to the second big forehead, the forehead of Europe. Europe's role is particularly critical, both for the protection of public health and human life, and for us to stand on our feet and face the economic consequences of the crisis. Unfortunately, Europe, too, did not show reflexes in this crisis. He has delayed giving guidelines and has allowed each Member State to make its own planning. However, it is not enough for a country to go well on public health issues. We all have to go well, because the border cannot be closed on a permanent basis. And if that doesn't happen, we'll have a new circle in the next space. So Europe's role in the second phase, which I spoke about before, is particularly critical. And I come to the Mozambique proposal that is linked to it. The Mozambique proposal to buy the patent from the governments is central and it is clear that it requires a decision and intervention of the European Union. In the second phase, in order to return to normal pace in everyday life, a lot of rapid tests will be required. If governments do not buy the patent so that each country can produce its own, they will not be able to respond to the countries, especially our own. Of course neither companies will have any chance of meeting the global demand. There should therefore be a European decision in a timely manner in this direction and not again late, not retrospectively. In any case, however, we, Prime Minister, must move directly in this direction and prepare ourselves, see how we will be ready. As far as the financial implications of the crisis are concerned, it is clear that it is absolutely essential for the European Union to give new money. How? Through a krone - bond, which will be repaid from Community funds and not counted on the debt of countries. Let us call it a European project Marshall. Any other solution will lead to a debt crisis, new Memorandums, poverty and closure. The initiative of the nine Presidents and Prime Ministers is extremely important and it is noteworthy that they also sign up to the Presidents and Prime Ministers from both the Socialist and the People's Party. This flag has indeed been lifted by Mr Mitsotakis. I think, Prime Minister, you should go by the end. We as a Change Movement have said since the first time that we wholeheartedly support this initiative of the nine Presidents and Prime Ministers. I come to the forefront of the economy and the support of workers in our country. In no case - and I would like this to be clear - we do not close the government's measures that have so far been taken to aid businesses and workers. In fact, many of these were also our proposals. But it is fragmentary and inadequate. They are not an integrated plan to protect against the consequences of the crisis. Denmark, Prime Minister, to whom you referred before, has taken a completely different path. The government has reached an agreement with the social partners and covers almost all the wages of employees together. It is another option with very good results than we are able to know. The worst thing, then, with regard to the measures to date, is that they are accompanied by interventions which affect private sector workers. And let's get something straight. This is not the time to discuss the overall recovery plan for the Greek economy, to which I have already referred earlier. I stress that we should first assess the consequences of the crisis and take account of Europe's contribution. It is time, however, to keep business and society up, because we all have to have something in mind: If they collapse, the cost of raising will be multiple and the length of this crisis will be much longer. See what consequences may be if, for example, the decision of “SINENOR”, a subsidiary of “BIOHALCO”, which made its employees available in five factories, is permanent. There are possibilities. We say this all the time, and we repeat it. You said too, at least for 2020 there are no financial restrictions. In addition, we are involved because of the crisis in the QE. This means that we can guarantee liquidity from there at very low interest rates. Of course, the government will have to make use of all the financial instruments provided by the European Investment Bank and the ESRB. Besides, as I said before, the money was found for the people that New Democracy wants. I am now referring to some of our main proposals that are fully targeted at businesses and people who are being tested. There is a need for a large stimulus of liquidity, with state-guaranteed loans and subsidies. The government has presented a plan of EUR 1 billion, but it is insufficient and it is certainly too far from the percentages they give in relation to GDP in the other countries of Europe. So let us think about them all and see what more can be done in our country. Secondly, as far as the farmers are concerned, we will study the aid to which you have referred, Prime Minister. You didn't say specific things. By this time they have been abandoned. The EUR 150 million planned is actually dropping in the ocean. In addition, very large issues are being created with the alalum to include businesses in the SMRs, I mean those in the SMRs that are being protected. The winemakers are included - listen to this - and the winegrowers are not included. They are outside the olive growers, who are facing a very big problem this year anyway. The retailers of the people's markets are involved and the producers of the people's markets are outside. It seems that some people are ignoring that this process of production, processing and marketing of products is uniform! Finally, the competent authorities should be serious and include all SMR categories corresponding to the primary sector. Substantial support measures should now be taken, as we have detailed proposals. This is where I want to propose. Since the Easter market will be particularly problematic, I think it is appropriate to buy the public products from producers, see the possibility of using Community funds for this initiative and make them available to economically weak people, people who do not have the necessary livelihoods and are going through very difficult hours. The third point I want to make is tourism. The problems in the most critical sector of our economy are already evident. It is therefore time for a programme to stimulate its competitiveness to be put on the table and for it to be decided that the trademarks required to grant workers in the unemployment benefit sector for the winter months will be drastically reduced. It is an issue that I have mentioned orally at our teleconferencing meeting, Prime Minister. It is also unfair for the government to insist on the exception from the announced extension of the unemployment benefit of twenty-five thousand people working in flexible forms of employment in tourism. And I ask, Mr Mitsotakis, that you personally intervene to restore this injustice. Fourth point, workers and unemployed. We have made it clear that the marble for this crisis cannot be paid by the public and private sector workers. We must therefore stop the government's ministers leaving open issues to reduce wages and pensions. And finally, the Minister for Labour must declare the foodstuff contract compulsory. He's been unacceptably delayed for too many months. We have repeatedly referred to this issue from the Step of Parliament. I am pleased that you have proceeded with the adoption of an interpretation of Article 9 on the legislative act. This shows that the pressures are getting us a place. In the end, you must listen, even if you do not admit what we say. It would, of course, be appropriate for this interpretation to be reflected in the act of legislation and for the sake of symbolism not to remain the same. It is not just interpretative. And, of course, it is time to see and do what is going to happen with the long-term unemployed. Under these circumstances it is impossible to find a job. We must therefore see the unemployment benefit for this category as well. Fifth theme. Despite the impressions the government is trying to provoke, the reality remains ruthless for weak borrowers. No extensions to the protection of first residence have been granted. No arrangement to suspend auctions. What are you doing? You have included in the three-month suspension of instalments to the banks all those who have been subject to the provisions of the Law on overdeclared households, as we have requested, and you are suspending the payment of instalments for all those who have been settled with the banks through either the platform or the extrajudicial compromise, namely the second category are about three thousand borrowers. There are tens of thousands of weak borrowers left behind who have proved unable to regulate their loans. Six and last issue. Give a realistic and sustainable solution for this period to the issue of cheques. We will look at the amendment you have put forward, but also the ministerial decision that provides for it to be adopted. It is of great value to help those in need, but at the same time not to stop operations in very critical areas such as food and medicines. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for all of us to be useful in every way. Volunteer is also important at this critical hour. I have asked the President of Parliament to make a decision of the Conference of Presidents so that we can all contribute to the purchase of equipment for new beds in intensive treatment units. It is an initiative supported by the National Health System directly. I have heard from the Prime Minister's speech that the President of Parliament is in this direction. I imagine that at the Conference that follows, we will learn your exact thoughts, Mr President. If that is the case, I am very pleased, because this is exactly the direction we have chosen as a Change Movement. Our MEPs have already made progress, we have sent a letter to the Minister for Health, who has accepted it, so that we can contribute to the immediate strengthening of the National Client Health System and equipment, to the extent that we can, for intensive treatment units. So we can be useful, contribute in too many ways together, without populism, without controversy that exposes us and do not need these hours. Ladies and gentlemen, we all keep saying that. We're living a crisis. It is historically proven, unfortunately, that the crises are paid by many, the weakest and the vulnerable. So the priority for all of us is not to let that happen, not to happen in our country. But it is certain that every crisis also carries a seed of hope, a seed of hope, solidarity, humanity, a seed of hope that it can prevail the "we" and "all together". Tens of hundreds of bright stories of humanity and solidarity leap through all this darkness of battle that we all fight against fear and death. And I want to stand on one of the things I happened to hear on a recent show. A nurse extremely moved to say on the microphone that this is the first time in her life and in her career that her fellow citizens seem to understand the great difficulties but also the very great contribution to the entire effort of her profession. Like the young nurse, there are sure that there are thousands of people right now in Greece who with self-sacrificing, truly self-sacrificing, are at the forefront of saving human lives and that all of us can stay at home. And we have to stay home, not relax. But, just on all these examples of humanity and solidarity, we will now have a solid basis to regain Greece and the Greek people united together and continue our lives, take it forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. It is now up to you to take care of your health. Wait a minute, Mr. Kutsuba. Mr. Tsipras was right to say that these are awkward moments. We want understanding. Mr. Kutsuba, come on. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u136	These days, these hours, we give all our powers, all and all, all of the Greek people to come out of this unprecedented approval. Stand up and strong protecting his life, his children's life. Stand up and strong inside the places of work protecting his rights. We protect ourselves, our surroundings, to stay strong. But we don't stay silent. It is precisely because we are not silent and from this step of the House that we are telling you that now, on the basis of the pandemic of the coronary, you are putting into quarantine labour rights, even that of trade union action, only to support large business groups. Today there is a lasting complaint from the "RIZOPASTI" about a particular operation. You are talking about supposedly protecting jobs without practically canceling the more than a hundred thousand redundancies in March. At the same time as this is the case, you are giving new tools to the great employer to trample any employment right left and to get rid of thousands of jobs. Even the Easter's gift, which is engendered by the workers and which is obliged to pay for it, will be very much covered by state money at the end of the day. This state money is workers' money, it's people's money. One is the solution right now. To freeze all these anti-government plans right away. To freeze, for example, the plans for Larco, for other undertakings concerned, to support Larco at the moment. Do not dare to reduce any staff, no wage reduction. To take the necessary health and safety measures within all businesses. You also continue mocking for hundreds of thousands of self-employed professionals, craftsmen, traders, thousands of scientists with a block, because several categories are not directly integrated for the two-month period of March - April to the beneficiaries of the special allowance, even this poor of EUR 800. At the same time, there are no substantial relief measures, such as duty-free entry, abolition of the trade fee, exemption from individual insurance contributions for at least the next four months. You still do not take basic relief measures for people's layers, for example, the reduction of electricity tariffs, water, the suspension of repayments to banks, which should apply to all, and not just to the so-called consistent borrowers. In quarantine, you are attempting to put information on the subject. In the name of individual responsibility again, plunge any different voice that fights for acute problems and highlights shortcomings and responsibilities. This also concerns political parties, such as the JRC and health workers, other workers and their unions, which highlight the shortcomings in staff, in instruments, in protection measures. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we do not deny individual responsibility. The responsibility of each and every one to protect himself and protect himself, which is enshrined when it goes hand in hand with collective responsibility for action, for claiming that, under the responsibility of the State, the urgent questions relating to the treatment of pandemic should be resolved immediately. Here really can be expressed the solidarity of the workers, the people, with regard to the various policies and the European Union and their big capital and their governments that are endangering their own lives, the lives of their children. Individual responsibility arises when a state, a government which has primary and main responsibility here and now solves the urgent health protection problems, the problems of the rights of the people. By the way, stop singletoning the finger of individual responsibility to the people. Leave that tone, as you have done on the occasion of the tails to the banks, as if you do not know that pensioners and workers are forced to stand in line. As if you don't know the bankers closed down branches, they fired workers so that people can't be efficiently served. It's your responsibility to keep people out of the banks. So now take measures to freeze the debts to the tax office, suspend payments to the CECE, regulate the instalments of loans, protect the first place and see how the crowding and tails will be stopped immediately. You also know very well that the vast majority of workers are disciplined and restrictive measures stay at home. However, they do not see the opening of ICUs sufficiently, making the necessary mass recruitment of doctors and nurses. Your strategy to put it all up to individual responsibility has more to hide from the people the great truth. In other words, the enormous shortages in the public health system for which the European Union's policy and strategy are responsible over the past few years, as well as the downgrading of trade, which you have all literally adopted, zero-free. And the gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. The dismantling of the public health system, of course, for the private sector, which has been giggled over the past few years, has the seal of all of you. The emblemed, even unexistent primary care, everywhere and throughout the country is your work. The large hospitals that have been operating in the safety margins for years without the necessary medical and nursing staff, without the necessary means, the necessary infrastructure, are your work. Who shut down the hospitals? The former government of New Democracy. Who kept them closed? SYRIZA's government. Who has constantly reduced the funds for health? The Governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. Who's reduced them even further? SYRIZA's government. None of you have made the necessary recruitments, despite the protests, the calls of workers at health centres, hospitals, the health structures that have been at risk for years. Of course you all tell the people that the private business sector can help upgrade the public health sector. Are you saying that about 800 ICUs are now available when in other conditions without a pandemic need over three and a half thousand? Are you saying the lack of basic medical specialties in the hospitals in the country? Are you saying the lack of even basic health protection measures, which you are sending them to war without weapons essentially and every day and which is why they make voices of anxiety and responsibility for the work they do? I would say, of course, that the congratulations and applause for our health have been made here and today. However, the best congratulations and applause would be to solve all these shortcomings, all these problems, the demands they themselves have, knowing the situation better from within, tell you and show you. The myth that the public can coexist harmoniously with the private sector and thus contribute to dealing with the pandemic, which is common to all of you here outside the JRC, has already been revealed in front of the large speculation of private centres and with the virus tests, which are not only accessible to anyone who has to pay, but also deprive the state design of valuable resources while increasing the risk of spreading. It is also revealed by the fact that the state is dependent on the supply of basic materials and medicines from the war on the world market, by the big companies who have found an opportunity to do gold business. The need for an exclusively public free health system is dramatically highlighted by the abolition of business action. Even now that all eyes are on the public health system, the recruitment of health workers - and, of course, they have not gone ahead - is not enough to meet the basic needs, in other normal conditions, we mean, let alone now in pandemic conditions. Even now that the agony of the people is peaking - if the public health system is able to respond to a pandemic peak - you choose to give new gifts to both clinically original and various health business groups of EUR 30 million. And in order not to leave complaining about other big businessmen, you also gave your gifts to canalarchs and private toll operators. Your agreement with health entrepreneurs is escalating the level of compensation they will receive from the EEA, namely from the workers' insurance contributions. For every coronary treatment in a bed in a private clinic, EEAY will give the owner the clinical compensation of EUR 1,600 per day instead of EUR 800 up until today. Appropriate gifts, of course, have also provided for the conduct of the coronary diagnostic tests. In this way, not only does the private sector not serve the public health system, but it continues to milk it properly, since not only is it not imposed, but it is also subsidised by the EEA, that is to say, money paid by the insured themselves. The protection of the health of our people in these circumstances requires that private units should immediately be ordered, that they be integrated into state planning. And when we call a requisition, we mean a requisition. To order nursing beds, surgery, workshops, all private sector IDs, together with their staff, and to be fully state-controlled. Check out the large diagnostic units. The coronary diagnostic tests must be carried out according to the scientific criteria and the public guidelines. Incorporate private doctors and, in particular, pneumonology and pathology in the public hospitals and health centres project. To be used for the care of the people who do not require hospitalization in their hospitals and, of course, at home visits. Acquisition of all necessary hygiene, protection and equipment to strengthen public health and health units. To obtain hospitals with all the necessary means they ask for themselves, who know better than anyone what they need here and now. To open all ICUs. Recruit the recruitment of all necessary health personnel. This is a necessary package, at the moment, of proposals. We support all our forces on the universal day of action launched by the Federation of Hospital Doctors of Greece on Tuesday, April 7th. And since every three and a little while you are talking about the negative example of Italy and about how we will prevent it, we now tell you how to take life protection measures for workers, all health and safety measures in factories, in other workplaces, where workers are conspiring without protective measures, without even respecting the necessary directions of health scientists, which are also state directions at the moment. Take action in hospitals, supermarkets, public transport, to prevent crowding. Take measures to protect the soldiers, the permanent officials of the Armed Forces, our inmates conspiring in the camps with huge deficiencies and very big problems. Please fill in the eleven proposals submitted by the JRC in this area. Also, use the thirty-seven questions that the JRC tabled here in Parliament on the subject. I don't want to say in detail, they're recorded in the Minutes of the House. You know that there are serious problems with the operation of the Pan-Hellenic School Network, and that the records of teachers, parents and students are too delayed. At the same time as all the rest, we follow closely what is happening in education, in our schools, in the universities. We feel this anxiety of children, as well as their parents, their families. Even this process of asynchronous teaching is progressing with difficulties. For modern ones, problems are much bigger. And because each or several of us in our family have teachers, we know what they're doing every day throughout this process, but what more children draw from their homes. For the modern, and the problems are much bigger, I don't have to mention them, we all know them. There is a serious problem with students and more overall with their families who do not have technical means for her anyway the equal participation of them in distance learning, i.e. fast internet, computer, tablet or whatever it takes. That is why we call for measures to be taken immediately, which will ensure the equal participation of all those involved in distance education, given the exceptional circumstances that exist today and, of course, that it is only for this two-month period to be explained that the schools remain closed. This practically means free internet connection and secure computer or tablet for students and teachers they don't have. Otherwise, they are excluded even more from their equal participation in the universal examinations of thousands of students who do not have this economic potential. Support the work of teachers with the establishment of a central technical support team at the Ministry of Education, the establishment of a central digital educational material platform by the Ministry, in which all pupils and teachers have access and will include activities and materials for all ages. And on the question of this year's pan-Hellenic examinations, we ask the Ministry of Education immediately to announce reduced examination material and, as quickly as possible, this week, to place it in the most official way possible for the date of the pan-Hellenics to be conducted, excluding the possibility of September. It must end the agony of all the students. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who, before celebrating high growth rates and returning to normality, are now forced to admit that the Greek economy is also going into a deep recession. The slowdown of the economy in the European Union, of course, has taken precedence over other major capitalist economies internationally, increasing the risk of a new crisis. Of course, the pandemic in progress may not be the main cause of this new crisis, but it is its catalyst. The Greek economy will also be affected because of the situation, especially in tourism, and in general all the extroverted economies, which you once again celebrated, will be affected. And of course for years now all of you - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA - were advertising tourism as a steam engine in the Greek economy. The measures taken by the European Union and the governments of its Member States which, as we all know, go forward and know, in protectionist measures, close borders, fund with support packages of their own natural monopolistic groups, will not block this path. This state-of-the-art state-of-the-art intervention, which all of you are now urging together, and the liberals of the New Democracy and the social democrats of SYRIZA and others, together with the well-advertised fiscal relaxation, will unfortunately be paid back by the workers, the permanent mortgages, who will also be called upon to cover new budgetary gaps and new possible loans. Because, with either the Eurobond or the Eurobond - a bond, as Mrs Gennimata said - and Mr Tsipras also congratulated Mr Mitsotakis today on having been drafted with the right side in the European Union - or with a loan from the ESS, it will still be paid by the workers, the Greek people, the people of Europe, then and with new measures. Here we go, and we'll see. We have been telling you many other times, before and during the memoranda, we have unfortunately been verified. Once again, we'll see them. So keep a small basket and do not celebrate either for Eurobonds or for various urban forms of management that will lead us, in other words, to the popular strata, we do not mean the large groups, even worse than today. The European Union of supposedly protected, secure and famous solidarity has now been revealed. This is the sooner you all realize and the sooner you realize it, unfortunately, and the Greek people and the responsibility of all the other political forces will be to pay it as a country and as a people. What European security can one talk about when, for years now, the health of workers has been sacrificed in front of the profits of monopolies in the health sector, resulting in deterioration, the continued commercialisation of public health? For what European solidarity one can speak today when Germany and France are even banning the export of sanitary materials to other countries in need and, of course, each one of them follows the logic 'the life-saving one'. Those who have been talking about supposed isolation from the people of Greece who will come out of the European Union, now in front of this real isolation that people live in and experience in the battle for their survival within the European Union, everyone has swallowed their language. Because today the Italian people, the Spanish people, the French people, the French people, each one alone gives this battle to survive this pandemic and the Greek people too. It turns out, therefore, that the European Union is not the Union in the interests of the peoples, but - as you want to say - 'the alliance', so we call it 'the lion', the oldest left-wing dictators of the ETUC and after the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou, are, to say it scientifically on the basis of the terms of the political economy, an imperialist capitalist union of states and that is what it says in itself. That is why Hope lies only in the awakening of the only real superpower that the peoples themselves are now. Let the pandemic be the starting point for a total subversive course to the benefit of the peoples, and that is the hopeful message to be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start my speech because Mr Tsipras said that I smiled at the time you spoke about the Macedonian, the scorpion, in any case. You know, I did smile because I never expected New Democracy to greet Northern Macedonia, as they call it. For me it's Skopje, anyway. And I am not saying this by any nationalism or chauvinism, but I have drawn up within about fifteen pages, Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis - and I honestly never expected that from New Democracy - twenty-seven infringements of the Prespecies Agreement in the last four months. There are twenty-seven violations, Prime Minister. And Mr. Tsipras, the former Prime Minister, gave me the opportunity to present it. So take in the Minutes the twenty - seven offenses made in six months. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They do what they want when there is an agreement that you signed, which is respected by the gentlemen, but there are twenty-seven violations that have been made lately. Why would Greece keep an agreement, which for me should not have been done anyway, but which has been and can at least be changed, so the New Democracy said, if I remember correctly, but did not. In any case, we have other issues to discuss, so we are now going to finance. Prime Minister, the economy has been closed, and you are now forced to run and you are not going worldwide, but also to Greece, because the public health system is not working. So it gives you the driver of solving the problem. The point is to find out who ruined public health and we have reached the point of running and not reaching behind the problem. Who destroyed her? The JRC is a little difficult. Varoufakis, it's hard. SYRIZA three and a half years what he's done beforehand. New Democracy and PASOK? PASOK started the National Health System. You ruined it. You were in the mood, and I say this directly to the New Democracy, to decouple the National Health System. You have done so, you are doing so. I heard my friend Adonai - who is not here - saying, "Don't let Tomsen close hospitals." That's what was said and done. And now we're running behind evolution. You know, I am in favour of aristotle form, Prime Minister, government, prevention. Because political means prediction. Preparing developments so that you don't run behind evolution. You have made an unfortunate comparison with Denmark, for me. Prime Minister, Denmark doesn't have a debt as much as we do. They're not comparable. You know, the mercenaries are cars, and the jaws are cars, but you can't compare the mercenaries. You cannot compare at least the economic sizes of the two countries, I mean in terms of surpluses and production. If you see where Denmark's economy is based on the export product it produces and what we export, you will understand differentiation. I am also going to say this straightaway. I liked what you said you were postponing the contributions. But I'll tell you this. You say the businessman pays Easter's gift after three months. It's a postponement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u139	Easter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u140	So ask me, Prime Minister, that in three months' time you will come to me for my two-workers, while I do not grill, I do not make money these months, to pay the Easter gift. You know, with aspirins, you can't solve it. It can't be done. If he comes in three months to pay checks - I don't have any checks, others have checks - to pay massively to three hundred employees their presents, I'm stuck that month. I'll stick to those months. The company's gonna get stuck. You'll run back behind evolution. That's why we say, horizontal measures! Not on dosing, Prime Minister. You're on dosing. Dosage, dose, dose! A drop - a drop. It's like Chinese torture has become a story. I know every day a minister will come out and say something new. Mr. Stakoras, Mr. Georgiadis, will come out and say something new, a new measure. Why don't you take everything together to finish the story? I'll prove something very simple. Prime Minister, you have invoked the European Union and solidarity. While these countries are closing the borders, it is a little bit at our imaginary level to invoke European solidarity. There isn't. Unfortunately, at the moment the European Union is the'saving self-sacrificing one'. Whoever's saved is. I'm afraid so. I'm afraid so. You also called on Jacques Dellore's fabulous saying, but Zack Dellore died. I wish there was his perception.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u141	Ninety-four are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u142	He's not dead yet? To live another hundred years. I asked Mr. Villardo and he answered. Anyway, he didn't die. But that logic died. Because we have an introvert in the European Union. They're introverted. You see that Germany has banned the export of medical equipment to Italy. Italy! What solidarity are we talking about? That's what I don't understand. You also made an unfortunate comparison. I guess your logger or editor made you wrong, just like I made a stereotic mistake. I'm talking out of text, you know. You said we were like the free-sieged besieged. Prime Minister, in Mesolonghi when half the people came out, they were cut off. Read your text. You said about the free besieged, that we're like the free besieged. You were talking about the coronary. I hope it doesn't happen the same, because in the Messolonghi when the sieges came out, half the people were cut. And I hope so, because the authors must take care of what they say and what they write. As a historian I say it, so you can tell your editor. I say this, because sometimes in the reasons why some people tell us to write, as Mr. Villard did to me with Delore, who I killed the man, and I carried it here, mistakes happen. But I want to say this. Our disagreement is essential to everyone else, Prime Minister, except for you on some points. We disagree with the others. You know, it's easy for me to start sharing money in both the JRC and the others, to say that "give, give, give". The problem is where to find the money, how to make the money, how to produce wealth. It's what I've been yelling for months and told the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I told you in your office that at some point we need to talk seriously about the production of wealth in the agricultural sector. Because there's the good script, we all know in here that we're going to end with the coronary and we're going to end with the economic crisis. Although for me it is not easy to end the economic crisis. It is worse for this crisis to come in relation to the world's previous crisis, in terms of the "appropriate" of the coronary and global economic system. It's gonna be a lot harder. We need to figure out a way to feed the world. We don't have sufficient self-sufficiency and self-sufficiency. They are not enough of the goods produced by Greece. And I'm not talking about a good like the Mercedes. Because you won't eat the plate when you're hungry. I'm talking about the meat we produce. Ladies and gentlemen, we are importing meat by 70%, 80%, 90% from the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, with which our Prime Minister has compared us. We're importing dairy products and meat. Here, therefore, the Government, Prime Minister, had to say that "because there is a risk that the world economy will be engulfed in the coming months and because there is the problem for each country to close its borders, for what it produces to eat it, I should like to initiate the process to support farmers and farmers".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u143	We are not now importing meat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u144	I'm telling you one more thing. We must support the livestock and rural economy in order to produce wealth, so that we can produce products. We're not importing, are we? Did you say that, Mr. Levane? What are we going to eat, Mr. Levane, in a while? Easter's coming. 90% of beef is from France and the Netherlands. We'll have deficits. That's what I'm telling you. Therefore, this deficit, which is the introduction and outflow of foreign exchange, must be produced by our country in order to balance the scale. How much more simple can I say? That means plan, though. And I say that let us draw up a programme, give it to the government, because if the hunger comes - I am afraid - and if the French, Dutch, Danish, their borders are closed, we will not have meat, as I have told you. Not to tell you about the wheat. Not to tell you about bread. Not to tell you about dairy, about cheese, which we slice with Bulgarian and Romanian cheese. So I'm just telling you things. So the farmer who waited for Easter to sell his goat won't sell it, because Hardalias came out and says to him that "you won't do anything." He said to him: "You're not gonna get hurt, forget it." What will his goat do with it? To slaughter it on his own?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u145	In the oven. Is that all we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u146	Is the same thing, Prime Minister? We deprive him of the custom. So support with a simple choice. Why did you hurry to answer that question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u147	And Delore lives, and the lamb will eat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u148	I talked about goat, Mr. President. You've made the amnophilics wrong. So I say this in order to get a little serious, because other things I want to say to you as President of the Greek Solution. Give 800 euros. Give EUR 900, but the EUR 200 out of the 900 that you give to go to the consumer goods market in Greece. Only Greek products, though! Not to go to take Lourpak butter, Greek, to get Greek products. Give him 200 euro bonuses. To move the market. What's simpler than that? Leave it "I'll cook my lamb in the oven, I'll do my goat in the countryside". We are talking about serious proposals. Give vouchers to go to the supermarket to only get Greek products. Only Greek products! Thus, the producer's process will be initiated to produce more products. When we have Chinese honey, what are we talking about? You're going to a supermarket. Honey Chinese, we also have African oil. Not to say African feta. That's what I'm telling you. If the rural economy itself does not rely on farmers, then we will have a problem in terms of adequacy and self-sufficiency of goods. Don't look at it in the fun, because if the fatality happens - I repeat it - and they close the border, we can't get through it. On the other hand, the government has done very well, I read here in the Minister's amendment, in which it says that 'with the provision of this article an increase with an additional budget of EUR 5 billion is proposed'. That's great! Can the Minister tell us where he's going to get the money, the five billion? Tell it in here. When you bring an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, write down where to find the money. Put 15 billion, 25 billion. It says so in the amendment, five billion. Where are you gonna get the money, the five billion? Where's the money coming from? Where? You also paid allowances - and very well you do and are from your good deeds - to hospitals and nurses. You're forgetting something, Prime Minister. The administrative staff of the hospitals, which are there, too. They didn't get the allowance. Look into it. When did they take it? Now did you put it? These are dosages. Every week and a meter. You can't make it. For the uniforms, what did you do, Minister? Administrators must not be inside. For the hacks, the uniforms? The uniforms are outside, aren't they? Are they getting benefits? I ask you, Minister, Mr. Stakoura. Leave the Prime Minister out. I'm asking you. The uniforms, the police and the military, they call? Oh, no. Why? Isn't the cop out to check out? Isn't his life in danger with the mask? And they have to. That's why I'm saying horizontal measures and you're not listening to us. Horizontal measures to end the story. With the drop, would you give them to satisfy the party clientele? You're wrong. Also, should we give the teachers something? They're getting trained. Aren't we giving anything to the teachers? Look at it a little bit longer. I'm telling you, you're making mistakes. This cannot be the case. I'll tell you why the Greek solution helps. When the Ministry of Education went down, Prime Minister - ask your Minister - I had my head of office call the Minister. We suggested that training should be done. We proposed that, Mrs. Gennamas, Mr. Tsipras, in New Democracy make the educational television. Because the platform would fall. It makes sense. When fifty thousand students enter a site, the platform can't take it, it'll fall. So we told them, do educational TV. And they copied it and did it. I don't care who did it. If it is good, Mr Tsipras, it should be applied in every direction. Erdogan says other things, with the pitifulness of avoiding the coronary, whatever it is. Anyway, we're going serious. Mr. Tsipras, the important thing is to put forward proposals. To say that 'give, give, give, give...'. You tell the Prime Minister "give". Where's he going to get them? "Give more, give more." Where's he going to get them? How will wealth be produced? How will the procedure be initiated? We don't produce. By 80% our economy is providing services, ladies and gentlemen. Our tourism - because I said before to Mr Lebanese that it is hungry - is EUR 18 billion and will unfortunately not give it to us this year, will not give us 18 billion. We will also have a loss of revenue of EUR 18 billion. How will our economy last? That is why I say that we need to plan for July, June, August, September how to deal with the crisis. I'm not saying anything strange. These are a few issues that we need to look at. I heard the Prime Minister who spoke about tomorrow, because this is the important one and he is absolutely right, tomorrow in Greece and not Mitsotakis, Velopoulos, Tsipras or anyone here, but tomorrow in our country. But I didn't hear you say anything about the primary sector really. You said 150 million rural economy. What do you mean? What does the poet mean? We will, he says, give the rural economy 150 million euros. Meaning? Tell us, let me know. Textiles, shipbuilding repairs, defence industry you don't tell us anything. And I say this because, unfortunately, the treatment of the financial impact of the coronary will be worse than the pandemic. I'm telling you right now. The economic crisis that we are going through with the pandemic now, the inappropriate ones later and the treatment of this crisis will be much worse, Minister, Mr Staikoura, for the next few months. I was informed by the Prime Minister that he would leave in 15 minutes from my speech. He had a thing, I understand. So I say what our opinion is. It says Mr Lebanese: 'We have prohibited the import of meat.'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u149	No imports.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u150	Did we ban the import?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u151	They weren't forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u152	Well, they weren't forbidden, then. I, if I were a government, I'd ban her. I would ban it, as Germany does, as other countries do, to consume my own products, Mr Lebanon, to support my own economy, Mr Lebanon. That's what I'm saying. The 800 euro allowance, as I told you, do it with the coupons. Give more 200 coupons and get Greek products. Don't we understand that? Honey Attica, I say I, not honey min bee, Chinese. Chinese honey? You're smiling. What are you doing like that? If you give the 100 coupons, this small or large business will move, the Greek one, and it will produce more product, so you will get more revenue in the course, VAT. What's simpler? I'm a businessman and I'm telling you in three or four months from now, business is gonna shut up. What are you doing? You move the problem with the checks, with the debts and all that - and I tell all of you - in the next few months. It's incomprehensible. Unless you go to elections in September. Keep a little basket, Mr. Tsipras. Because we carry them three to four months later, we give some now and then we go to the natives, called Greek voters, to believe that we did well. I'm saying now. I reserve it. Because in any case, I could say that I could say that I would say a lot about suspension of auctions, for collecting companies, for loans, for banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u153	I can see that, Mr. Loverdo. It may seem strange, but depending on the shocks. Give an example of this, my friend Andrew Loverdo. With regard to the ESRB, would you please tell me here, ladies and gentlemen, what does the seminar have to do with the development of the country? It's amazing what's going on. They baptize the fish meat. Is the NSRF money, Minister, Mr. Stakoura, to provide investment in people who have their own funds of co-financed projects, yes or no? I've got 50%, and I want 50% S.A. to make an investment, don't I? What do you give me in seminars? Can I ask you something more? Search your Ministries for a while how many files have been completed by the NRP and nothing has been done. They're business files. I can present you, if you like. They have applied for an NSRF, put your own funds, committed them to the bank, 50%, 40%, 30%, 60%, waiting for your Ministries to move and no one moves. Not you, but the ministries responsible, such as Rural Development, etc. You don't. The other guy's put his money on, he's bound. Move the ESDP procedure. I can give you twenty-seven files of specific investment companies. You'll do well for you and Greece. Looks like the mechanism's working, something's going to build. I'm telling you the obvious. If you know, I can tell you what companies they are. If you look a little bit further, you'll find them. Let's actually go. You're giving benefits. To the dull poor guy, who goes to the night and takes the coffee of Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Loverdus, Mr. Velopoulos? The courier with the bike, that kid isn't entitled to an allowance, son?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u154	He's in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u155	Did that come in too? With a dosage, son, we can't get to them. That came in too, he says. I didn't find it, but since you say it, I believe you. The one with the couriers came in, too. Also long-term unemployed. Did he get in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u156	Well, that didn't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u157	He's not coming in here. He's just coming out. For the long-term unemployed, my Minister, we must do something for these people too. So how are they gonna eat? Air cut off? Not a goat in the oven, but not even a goat from a distance will these people see. So I'm telling you, some things need to be taken seriously. Let's go down there, so I won't push the time any more. There was no more unfortunate choice, Mrs Gennamas, than the Prime Minister's encouragement - I wanted her to be here - through Facebook to point the entire political system to EUR 2,400. An unfortunate choice of a Prime Minister, a politician with a spirit of innovative and modern to do old-fashioned fireworks, "give 2,400 of my MPs". And the - I will not say miserable now, but I will say something else - unacceptable, voluntarily, fellow Members of the New Democracy and put up the receipt of the savings bank that they gave 2,400. It's the inappropriate kind of populism. Politicians as long as they don't get it. It's a terrible situation. I don't know if you agree with me. I disagree with this story. I might have given it to you too. Let me tell you what we did to end the story. Mrs. Gennamas, we never announced it. She made an announcement from Kastoria Hospital that she needs money. All the MPs, all ten, filed the money directly at the Kastoria Hospital. We did it yesterday. We didn't mention it, we didn't tell anyone. We didn't make it a flag, and we don't have to. But with this misery of the New Democracy MPs uploading the savings bank that they put 2,400 what do they want to show? I didn't understand that. But the Prime Minister's encouragement troubled me, because I sincerely expected him to be more modern and more progressive in relation to the old-fashioned perception. We told you to go home. We have an amendment and we have tabled it. Do CYCLOS to get this over with. That's where the big scarf is, but you'll never have to do anything wrong. Here is our amendment. I'm filing it in the Minutes. We said it a week ago, but we're not listening. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now we're going to the bounces. Now it's big business, Mr. Tsipras. But there's no business going on. By the time we think about the coroner, we're businessmen. Eleven million on the channels at a commercial company. Eleven million euros in a advertising company, which the advertising company will channel in how it suits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u158	Not on the channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u159	I told a commercial company. But there's also a scam, Mr. Tsipras, which you probably don't know. The advertising company gets a percentage of 3.6%, and then it blackmails the media to get back. It won't take 3.6%, but it can get 10% and 12%. So with one job, this company's gonna make a million euros out of nowhere. And we're not a little embarrassed? So the channels can lie every day? So much media control from New Democracy I never expected. They ruled, had a couple of channels and SKAI yours. You want it all yours. There is nothing, Minister, that does not mean 'living for the New Democracy'. I had already said that with so much brain wash I began to believe that the greatest leader after Kapodistrias is Mr. Mitsotakis. I started to believe it now, I'm convinced of brainwashing. It can't be done. That's enough liquor from the channels. It's unbelievable. I have in front of me a story about counterfeiting channels. Where's the PSE? Videos of falsified videos, Mr. Loverdos. They humiliated an entire city, Thessaloniki, that the Thessalonians were out on the beach and were walking by thousands. And atoms were a hundred twenty counted from Macedonia Pallas to the White Tower. This is media propaganda. I leave them in the Minutes because, I repeat, they are falsified reports of the channels for which no PSE has intervened. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned CDs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I denounce the PSE which does not meet and meets for other things, Minister. Can I tell you what he's meeting for? From a distance, he decided without hearing anyone that me or the company with which I work is convicted, remotely, without seeing the evidence, without checking the complaint. He said that according to complaints the company is scams and Velopoulos is a crooked PSE. The independent authority violated the decree, essentially in breach of the Constitution, of apology. It's incredible what's happening at the ERC. What's the problem? He gets a party president, Mr. Loverdos, to inform the President of the PSE that he is wrong, to see the DVD that there is no such issue and the president of the PSE does not answer the party president. The President of the PSE is voluntarily unacceptable. Here we have clear violations of the Constitution, laws and legislation. You don't condemn anyone with a statement that they're playing all the sites and all the newspapers at my expense for something that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u160	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u161	Why am I wrong, Mr. Loverdo? So I'm saying the falsified videos of the channels don't see them? The corrupt news and the farmed coroner doesn't see the PSE? Doesn't he see anything? He sees other things, however, that I fear that the sirens of Maximus affect some. I hope that's not the case. I remember a statement by Mr Tsipras, and I thank him for that, by election, which she had told Mrs Zacharea that we had been extinct. You were absolutely right. We weren't showing up anywhere. Now in the Greek media, Mr. Tsipras, see a news newsletter - there is no Greek solution anywhere. Announcements we make, statements we make, Mrs. Ghosts, no channels present the Greek Solution. Whatever we say, the best suggestions we have, we've been swept from everywhere. That's a democracy. I'm really embarrassed and I'm going to read something that I believe in from my soul. The best way to assess a leadership is to ask yourself what errors it is that it is capable of. You're making a mistake here. The law of steam and pressure know what it says? The more you press the steam down, the more it ejects. And I'm telling you, why are you making mistakes with the Greek Solution? You're trying to push through the media so we don't exist. You're wrong. We are here, we will stay, we will be seriously proposing and we will have proposals, not screaming, not salting, but seriousness, and we will increase our rates constantly. In closing, we're talking about 30 million in private clinics, 30 million in private! And I'm private, give me a million dollars too! Why only to the private, I didn't understand your friends? And we've got business, you guys, and we're busy. Give us a million dollars! I say this because what you are doing, like the 'MOREA', which you are giving another 10-11 million there, is called communist capitalism. The businessman, Mr Tsipras, - listen now - because the road is not moving is compensated by the state with EUR 10-11 million. Listen, the investing businessman has no chance at all. Whether he works or doesn't work, he'll make a profit. Whether he wins in his pocket or loses, the state pays him. The same is demanded by the 'FRAPORT'. They'll all be asking for you. Then I, too, lose every day 100,000 or 50,000, why doesn't the state give it to me? Let me have the state. Let's give it to both the civil servant and the private employee, all of them, to pay to everyone money. What is this, my Minister? You'll tell me, I know, the contract is. Then you poorly signed contracts, Minister, Souflias and the New Democracy. He poorly signed such a colonial contract. You badly signed it. And these are the result of your government, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. Do not misunderstand, Mr Kutsuba, for saying 'Communist capitalism'. You got a little misunderstood, but I said that her logic was that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u162	Ideologically, it doesn't work...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u163	I know. It's a broad interpretation of the term. If they do this on the "Attica Street" itself, what will happen? You can do it on the "Attica Street", start paying money...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u164	Ideologically, it doesn't work...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u165	Okay, it's a diffusive interpretation, don't get yourself wrong. Mr President, in closing and thanking for the time, I would like to say this: in this area there has been the goat, the lamb, the Minister, and all this. Don't close the churches anymore, that's enough. Let Easter function at least, with believers - I repeat - from the outside at this stage. I mean, if it's the priest, being two singers, we can hear Christ Anestis at least. We have the right. Do it. I'm not saying we open, I repeat, the doors and the believers break in, Mr. Tsipras, because you're smiling. I say, closed doors, we listen to Christ Anestis at least, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u166	The Church decided that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u167	The Church asked. The government doesn't know what it's gonna do, Mr. Loverdo. The government matters what it will do, not the Church. The Church can do whatever it wants. But I'll say something else, Mr. Loverdo. Why don't we look for the illegal mosques in Athens? A hundred runs. It's a hundred illegal mosques, guys! It's a hundred, it's not one and two. Why is that where operations take place? Why would they circulate ten and fifteen and twenty together under Vathi Square? Why would they be released, Mr. Loverdos, five, ten and fifteen, all of them together and forbidden to go out every two or every three years? You tell me. They were playing ball last night in Paleochori. In Paliochori is a hot spot and they went out and played ball among them fifty-sixty people. Why would the Greek also be forbidden to go out? We've seen their despair with the illegal immigrants at the hot spot in Richona. The gentlemen have told us here that there is no case and suddenly a lot of it appears, but we don't know where it is. We know the pregnant woman who went to the hospital. The poor woman, the African woman, went to the hot spot, can't find her and look for how many days. Is that an organized state? This is an organised state, is this an organised democracy? Unfortunately, it is not just organized, but as you do, you are making it more trivial, Mr Loverdos, ladies and gentlemen. We'll have two issues together, and especially the hot spots, because there are no health checks. The big problem is, there are no health checks on hot spots. These people are being persecuted by their homes, persecuted, illegally, as invaders - to agree on this, because what is being done in Evros is an invasion - and the state must see the health of Greek citizens mainly from communicable diseases. Let's be careful, because in the end, we won't have one. I would also like to make an appeal to you, Minister. Stop dosing like you're Mithrida. Do you know the mistress? It was Mithrida's tactic to take small doses of poison so he wouldn't be murdered. They killed him. You dosing every day, a dose, a dose, like the basilizer. Finish, make a plan by Friday and say "This is our plan for the next five months". So we will support you and say good and give your own efforts and proposals for your implementation. So, as you do, you do it for television, for the media, for them to tell you good, so that the Prime Minister will come out for a proclamation every ten days and the ministers will go out in the channels with the headphones from Skype and make the theatre, if you want, all this seems to be a pragmococoma, while it is very serious topics to do so. Watch out a little bit longer and we'll be with you. Otherwise, we will be against you, because for us it is Greece first, first the Greeks and then anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos. Mr. Varoufakis will not speak. It's his turn now. He sent me a letter, which he starts by saying: "After this time, I am sending you the request of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group for compliance and of the Greek Parliament with the need to minimise movements and live conferences when they can be held by means of teleconferencing." It is exactly what we are trying to do, to minimize the meetings. He continues, saying in favour of teleconferencing and concludes: "Before we were informed by the services of the House that the Prime Minister will attend today's plenary debate and take the floor. As our pointless presence in Parliament sends exactly the opposite message to the public, I announce that I will not attend and ask you once again to convey to this House the proposal of Mera25 for the continuation of parliamentary procedures by means of a teleconferencing, as is the case at the Ministerial Council, the European Council and the Eurogroup.' That's his point of view. First of all, of course, it speaks of minimising and, finally, it says at all. We've minimized, as you know. We are deciding at the Conference of Presidents, in the presence of Mr Varoufakis' party, and I would like to say that, when Parliament has sixteen, seventeen or eighteen colleagues, half of those who had the oath of the President of the Republic, it is not just within the framework indicated by the doctors in relation to distances, but even more so. I do not deny Mr Varoufakis the right to worry and want to give another picture. We're making this picture. The Conference of Presidents last week became totally substantiated. Technically, I'm talking because we made her phone calls, not even by teleconferencing. We have unquestionably limited the function of this House. However, the House must meet. I will not use the example of the Great Britain Parliament, which was meeting during the Second World War, the valley of parliamentism, for reasons and symbolism, despite the danger not of a disease but of bombing, which was equally present. You should know that we are at all times ready to limit, if necessary, this elementary presence that we are doing. That is Mr Varoufakis' view. He's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u169	I would like to say that the Prime Minister will not be a second. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Health will respond, and then we will go to the flow of the registered rapporteurs or, if they want to speak, the parliamentary representatives. Obviously, I will give the Minister of Finance the floor for ten minutes with tolerance to respond on behalf of the Government, and then the Minister of Health will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u172	I am sorry, Mr President, to interrupt the procedure, but let me correct you. As long as the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility were speaking, the agreement reached at the Conference of Presidents was not respected. There were at least five MPs from the two parties. But we agreed at the Conference of Presidents. That's first. And this is about the health of all of us, but above all - because for our health we are officials, we do not pay particular attention - it is about the example we give the citizens, of whom we demand to stay locked in their homes and get permission to do cich. The second thing I would like to say is that you have read - I do not blame you for that - only the last and first paragraphs of the letter. I think that since all the other Heads of State or Government had more than half an hour at their disposal, I should be allowed to read two other paragraphs is the letter from our Secretary. It's in your judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u173	The letter has been filed in the Minutes. There is no question that it will not be taken into account. I read the two main paragraphs. The point, I think, is to explain it. Now, the arithmetic presence was in line with the Conference of Presidents. They were the heads of the parties, the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives. Obviously, you also counted the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, who participated in it. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliament and the President of the Parliament, the former, shall be entitled to be present. They were less than 20 in the Chamber. We need to do self-criticism and improve and be less and less. I think, however, that Parliament's picture today was exemplary in terms of quantity and distance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u174	I do not disprove you, but Mrs Gerovasili is neither a parliamentary representative nor a Vice-President. It's not nice to mention names. This has not happened, Mr President. We were all here. I'm not saying it was too many people. At some point, however, when Mr Mitsotakis started talking and Mr Tsipras had come, it was unfortunately more than thirty people. However, it's in the logical context. I insist, however, on the example that we give to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u176	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u177	I would like to raise a point, not the Rules of Procedure, but an issue that is in your hands to see. It's a matter of democratic ethics. The Chiefs spoke. The rapporteur of the New Democracy alone has spoken. All the other parties have not spoken. Now, they're gonna talk two ministers and then we're gonna get in the proper process. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u178	Yeah. I thought about it, too. The ministers normally speak in the turn of the Prime Minister, who has renounced the denology, to facilitate the progress of the debate. And you realize what the Prime Minister's second-guess would trigger. I do not say 'flame' in the sense of tension, but in the sense of the time that would require the conclusion of the debate. It is therefore reasonable for the Prime Minister to speak for less than a year, the two ministers representing the ministries covered by the bills and then enter into the flow. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we are meeting today under special conditions of public health. A lot of our fellow men are leaving our lives. That is why I express my grief. At the same time, I also express my gratitude to many Greeks who are struggling with a high sense of responsibility for dealing with the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that in the code of our values, the first priority is the defence of human life and the protection of the good of public health and the economy is next. The government's efforts to spread the coronary and its effects are governed by this hierarchy. They had started on time. They're well-designed and decisive. In the field of the economy, the positions and assessments of special scientists, whom I thank from this position, are taken seriously. We are trying to move methodically, realistically and effectively. We have and are implementing a serious, coherent and dynamic plan. We relieve workers and employers of the burden of their financial obligations. We're spreading a protection net for households and businesses. We support society and the economy with a sense of law, in the context of available European and domestic resources. We share in terms of social justice the financial burden of the health crisis. Most of the burden, as it is imposed, has been borne by the state. At the same time, however, we are respecting the enormous sacrifices of Greek society over the last ten years of the crisis. That is why we are implementing policies to keep the economy up and alive with our eyes and the next day in the post-Korean era. We moved in time and decisively. We have tabled, as I said, and we are implementing a draft of fifteen axes. Firstly, we have made it clear from the first moment that everything the Ministry of Health needs as additional funding to deal with the spread of the coronary has it. Thus, it has been strengthened - and continues to strengthen - the health system with at least EUR 200 million in addition to the current budget of the Ministry of Health. I would like to open up a parenthesis here, because it has been heard that there has been no initiatives for taxpayers and the obligations with the banks. Before the end of last month, we had drawn up a specific directive for those who are over seventy years old, a hundred and five thousand of our compatriots, that there is an extension of all their tax obligations up to 10 April. We haven't heard. Secondly, work access facilities were introduced for working parents with children through flexible working hours, distance work and special leave. The State participates in cost-sharing. Thirdly, VAT was reduced to 6% on products that are necessary to protect against the coronary, such as masks, gloves, antiseptics. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance submitted a request to the European Commission to grant exemption from customs duties and import VAT to goods, medical devices, equipment and materials considered necessary to avoid the transmission of the pandemic. Fourthly, 1,7 million employees covering eight out of ten private sector workers are granted exceptional financial assistance of EUR 800. This aid is duty-free, irresponsible and unreasonable. At the same time, however - and this has been concealed by all the positions of all the leaders of the opposition parties - there are other predictions. We cover these workers' insurance contributions on their nominal salary - I stress it - for forty-five days. The same employees are also granted a suspension of the payment of certified tax debts with the possibility of a 25% discount if they are paid in due time. In addition, to the same workers, these workers are provided for a suspension of payments to the EMCDDA. These workers also include all full-time, part-time or rotating employees. Fifth, the Easter gift will be paid in its entirety. It will be paid by all businesses to all employees. Businesses not covered by the State's provisions to date must pay the Easter gift at the statutory deadlines. Where the employment relationship of the enterprises concerned is temporarily suspended, the amount of the Easter gift corresponding to the period of suspension of the employment relationship shall be paid by the State budget. Moreover, as we have committed, hundreds of thousands of workers in hospitals and health centres in the country, medical, nursing and other staff of all kinds - because concerns have been heard earlier - workers in the EAW, workers in the EAW, as well as those in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection will receive exceptional support, moral recognition - we appreciate - by 10 July. Sixthly, measures were taken to protect against different forms of protection for eight hundred thousand businesses, that is, for eight out of ten legal persons. For most of them, 99% of what we cover, there is, among other things, a suspension of payment of VAT and commissions of certified tax debts. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] For the instalments of accredited tax debts, a 25% discount shall be granted if they are paid in due time. Furthermore, the option is that 25% of the value of VAT will be offset, payable in April, which will be paid in full and in due course until the end of April with debts of the same persons who are established or who are to be established by the tax administration and who are payable from May onwards. It is stressed that a condition of subjecting to favourable rules is the maintenance of existing jobs and we are faced with legislative initiatives which we have tabled and, today, additional major problems, such as the question of cheques. I want, because I have just received the information, to thank public households and businesses, because with sufficient consistency, despite the suspensions we have given, with the incentives we have given, they have in many respects met their obligations towards the State, to taxes and insurance funds. I really want to thank them for that. Seventhly, they are also covered through different shapes of seven hundred thousand free professionals, self-employed and small business owners of an independent legal form, representing 75% of the total. Eighth, the financial arrangement of the repayable advance is established to further direct support small and medium-sized enterprises operating throughout the economy affected by the effects of the health crisis. I repeat: throughout the economy. The total amount of funding for the month of April is only one billion here. The aid will be granted to undertakings directly from the State via the ‘TAXIS’. Enterprises interested in exploiting the scheme should be registered on a specific electronic platform of the ADP, entitled 'My Business Support', from late this evening or no later than tomorrow morning until 10 April. Businesses using the scheme have been occupied since Monday by the non-dismissal clause. Ninth, in addition EUR 1.8 billion will be used by the Special European Investment Fund set up to deal with the coronary. A guarantee fund will be implemented for the period of relaunching the economy with resources from the ESRB and the Development Bank of a total of EUR 1 billion. This fund will guarantee loans of more than EUR 3.5 billion to small and medium-sized enterprises. This amount may be increased according to the demand of the product and guarantees will relate to working capital loans. Liquidity will be made available to the banks by the European Investment Bank to grant new loans of EUR 2 billion. I believe that following decisions by the Eurogroup next Tuesday, the amounts will be higher in this direction. A guarantee facility shall be set up for investment loans up to EUR 500 million in cooperation with the group of the European Investment Bank. As the Prime Minister said a moment ago, the European Commission has given the relevant flexibility to make use of resources, which means even greater use of resources from many Member States and from Greece. In the first place, support measures are being put in place to sectors in the primary sector affected by the health crisis. To this end, the Ministry of Finance was initially allocated an amount of EUR 150 million to the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food in order to finance and implement these measures. Additional support initiatives are taken and we have already taken, but much more within April, for other important sectors of the Greek economy, such as tourism, shipping, transport, energy and others. Eleventh, the Independent Public Revenue Authority has proceeded and proceeded with a direct repayment of all dues to citizens and businesses, returning the amounts of all cases under control to up to EUR 30 000. Twelfth, banks and loan managers will facilitate payment of instalments of information loans to households and companies affected by the crisis, but also support the culture of consistency in payments for those who can pay their liabilities. Thirdly, we made an intervention in the property market in a reasonable sharing of the burden of this difficult situation. In particular, companies which have to cease their activities as a result of the proliferation of the coronary pay 60% of rent and professional property if they rent it. The same applies to workers who have to cease their activity as a result of the spread of the coronary and the suspension of their contract of employment if they are first resident. At the same time, the owners of such property are required to suspend payment of their tax obligations and payment of a contingent debt arrangement. Fourthly, the payment of a regular unemployment allowance to the long-term unemployed and the unemployment assistance to freelance professionals and self-employed persons is extended to those who were entitled to the grant ended in the first quarter of 2020. The Social Work Programme is also directly activated for approximately thirty-six thousand unemployed, as well as all the support programmes for the unemployed of the Ministry of Labour and the OAED. Finally, as of May, projects involving about 100 000 unemployed will be launched. Fifteenth, there is already provision - and it is already an amendment today - for an additional state budget with an increase in the appropriations for the Special Account of the Ministry of Finance, which has been set up specifically for the implementation of measures to protect public health by the krone. The appropriations in question are increased by EUR 5 billion. But why are these appropriations increasing? Because tax suspensions exceed EUR 2.1 billion. Insecure insurance obligations and the cover of insurance contributions by employees and self-employed persons are set at EUR 1.6 billion. In other words, these suspensions are about EUR 4 billion, which I have not heard of in the proposals for counter-population.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u180	Yeah, I haven't seen SYRIZA's suggestions being inhibited. So I'm guessing you don't want any inhibitions, but they're being paid properly. I don't see it in the suggestions. Exceptional financial assistance amounts to EUR 1.4 billion. The total burden of these measures amounts to EUR 5.1 billion for the months of March and April alone. This burden, together with the additional public health expenditure, for which I have already spoken, is the advance payment to strengthen the liquidity of enterprises, for which I have already spoken, to strengthen the primary sector, for which I have already spoken, to strengthen the budget for the Easter gift of workers who are temporarily suspending their employment relationship and to provide exceptional support for workers in public health, as we agreed with the Minister for Health, Mr Kikilis, now amounts to EUR 6.8 billion, which is 3.5% of GDP. These amounts do not include strengthening the productive fabric of the economy through the ESRB and other European funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like in front of this unprecedented health crisis that all mankind experiences in completing my speech, stressing that it is all our duty to behave with responsibility, calm and patience, with social justice and solidarity, so that we get out of this extraordinary situation with the least atomic and social costs and start immediately after a dynamic relaunch of the economy. Unfortunately, however, the merciful and irresponsible bidding of Responsibility, particularly of Officer Responsibility, do not allow me to do so. I shall therefore open up a referral to respond to four specific issues, three of which have been raised today by the Opposition, mainly by Accuracy Opposition, and a fourth, which has not been raised today, but have often been repeated by officials from Officerial Response, to end with fairy tales. Firstly, the Civic Opposition - and the Opposition today, like Mr Velopoulos - claims that measures are being announced gradually, recommending the torture of a drop. They hide, however, the parties that, in the medium term, there have been two critical decisions, those of the Eurogroup and the European Central Bank. And as Mr Tsipras said - rightly so - we have made the judgment. At budgetary level the objective of the primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP no longer applies from Monday, while in addition, the reduction of revenue due to the crisis and an increase in expenditure on health support, business liquidity, employment and social cohesion are excluded from the country's budget performance calculation. And that's what you know that happened very recently, a week and two weeks ago, respectively. Also, following the recent decision by the European Central Bank, the Greek State's bonds are acceptable to the new programme. And, you know, this was last week. And this has been the first time since 2015, when the quantitative relaxation began, in which our country has been solely responsible for the previous government. These decisions are proof that Greece is now being treated as a normal Member State and not as an exception. In the last ten days, the field of economic activity has been widened, removing restrictions of the last decade and adding degrees of freedom to support society and the economy with a sense of law. I would like to prejudge you that other degrees of freedom will be added in the next few days and we will claim even more with the creation of a common European bond. Secondly, it claims that the Qualified Opposition and Opposition in many respects are not enough to date. In fact, however, I have not heard how much of your proposals are being costed by the Heads of the Anti-Population Party. I'm looking for a number. We have said how much they are doing, 3.5% of GDP. I have not heard in any communication from the leaders of the opposition parties how much their interventions are costing. I didn't hear a single number today. And you're not telling us anything more. I have carefully studied the positions and positions of the Opposition. Is it against suspension of tax and insurance obligations to citizens? 'Cause they say 'give all the wages', but they don't say there are any suspensions. In other words, they suggest that wages should be paid, but citizens should normally pay their instalments to taxi and insurance funds, because there is nothing to do with the proposals for counter-population. There's nothing on the record. In any case, the truth is that the rate of measures taken by the government to date amounts to 3.5% of GDP, which is far higher than the European average, which is 2% of GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u181	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President. I shall therefore present in the minutes the two official communications from the European Commission, the Commissioner responsible, Mr Gentiloni, and Klaus Regling saying that on average in Europe the measures taken are 2% of GDP. And the country has 3.5% of GDP. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, it claims that the Government can use the security cushion to finance the pillowing positions it has put forward, without, of course, knowing the extent of the problem, and without quantifying the measures it proposes. This is absolute irresponsibility. And because I'm listening to various economics, we can capture reality so we can all know it. The security cushion is 15.7 billion euros. Cash assets of central government and general government bodies at the Bank of Greece and commercial banks are additional EUR 20 billion. They are cash-flows that existed before 2015 and which are increasing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u183	And in 2015 it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u184	There were before 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u185	Two hundred million was in January 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u186	Eleven billion euros are the official figures and which...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u187	In 2015 you left us EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u188	Eleven billion euros. Mr. Chakaloto, please, I must complete my position. I'm watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u189	You've been talking for half an hour. We have to make some kind of intervention once.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u190	When your time comes, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u191	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u192	When you talk with that style and say about fairy tales and unreliables.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u193	What look?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Chaakalot, leave that to the President-in-Office. Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Chaakalot, I'm watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u196	Mr. President, there's a weed that goes beyond...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u197	Mr Tsakalato, you will allow me to tell you that I have been here for 15 years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u198	It says: 'unreliable', 'false'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u199	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u200	Two hundred million of us left in 2015. You left the country without protection and you dare talk about the pillow? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Chaakalot, I'll tell you in your turn. You will be given the opportunity and the time to tell them in detail. Let the Minister sit down. And don't say "little" of the Minister. After all, he's not used to us in this. You're not used to us in such expressions either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u202	Well, at some point dialogue must take place and not give us lessons and attacks by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u203	Come on, Mr. Chakaloto, I've never heard you talk like this before. You have a decency in speech. Let it go. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u204	You will allow me to tell you that I have more years than you in Parliament, and I am not known as a 'little'. Others have a Facebook slipper. These cash-flows increase government wipers or reduce debt issues depending on debt service, depending on the amount of interest-rate stamps, depending, for example, on the repayment of debt to the International Monetary Fund. For example, if the former government prevented - but it did not have time for this - the IMF to pay, it would use resources from these cash reserves of general government bodies. Conclusion: Other security cushion and other cash-flows. In any case, the Greek Government will make use of all the resources available in order to make the most of the emergency conditions possible, as well as the look at the post-Koronian era. When and to what extent each instrument will be used is a function of the duration, intensity and social development of the problem. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, thank you very much. I'll be out in two minutes. Finally, the Civic Opposition - today it did not say it, but it tells all the public positions of the outside Parliament - that the Greek economy has been declining since the fourth quarter of 2019. To finish with this myth, I'll testify three paintings. The first table - to see it all and I will present it in the Minutes - shows that the main components of GDP have recorded a higher growth rate in the second half of 2019 since the first half of 2019. This is the case for private consumption, for exports and for investment. Therefore, in the three key indicators the second half was better than in the first half of 2019. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the fourth quarter of 2019, private consumption increased by 1.8%. It was the biggest increase since 2007. The private consumption growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2019 was the highest of any other fourth quarter since 2007. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And investments in the fourth quarter of 2019 increased by 14.4% which was the highest in any quarter since 2006. It was the highest percentage of any quarter, going back to 2006!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u205	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u206	Finally, the accounting reduction in stocks is the one that led to a lower rate of GDP growth. This is the truth, which reveals that there was a dynamic economy, on which we must press and build, when we overcome the significant social and economic impact of the health crisis. Finally, I have to be clear. The damage to the economy, as long as the public health crisis is prolonged, is increasingly greater. The same is true of the recession, which is global. As far as we're concerned, we're trying to narrow it down. I hope that science will face the operative cause of the global crisis as soon as possible. I therefore call on you to face the unprecedented crisis with realism, soberingness, seriousness, responsibility, unity and, above all, solidarity and all together to get out of the crisis and social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I too would like to speak. I don't intend to exceed time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u211	Wait a minute, Mr. Chakaloto. Mr. Loverdo, would you like the floor on a point of order, for personal reasons, for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u213	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, before you take office of this House, I told the President of Parliament that the procedure has certain anti-ethics elements. I have not read a Rule of Procedure, I have not read anything. I just said that it might not be so right at Parliament meetings, which we want to open for the government to check, for the government to explain in good time, but for us to proceed with our obligations in relation to the PPP, in other words, whether this procedure which has now been broken down - and it was good - with the interventions of the political leaders is not too much'sums' since the Heads of State speak, that the ministers begin. The President replied to me that this helps briefly, because the ministers will be much more populous and we will also help the process, in which, Mr President, he has not spoken to any party but the ruling party. The other five parties have not spoken. Are you feeling well in your place right now, when this is how the process takes place? We do not feel at all well because we are very open and you personally give time, you are not too strict to talk to the parties and those Members who are here, but not so! It turns today's meeting into a government account of what it has done. That's not right. And the Ministry has not yet spoken with the legislative initiative on legislation on the contents of legislation! This is not a situation, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u215	You're right. Indeed, the Minister spoke for three times a year, but do not forget that he has all four amendments, which were his responsibility and which I imagine he will be accepted, but I do not know whether Mr Kikilias will accept them, which I will ask now before I give him the floor. Here, Mr Chakaloto, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u216	I would like to ask Mr Stakoura to state officially what the cash was on 25 January 2015. I would then like your opinion on whether the country would have been bankrupt on your own responsibility if the pandemic were not in March 2020, but in March 2015. And you dare tell us that it's our fault that we didn't get into the QE when you left us without a program and without cash? Aren't you embarrassed? Can't you have a dialogue? Can you not get away from the past so that we can have a serious debate on what needs to be done in the country in economics? And you're saying that we're without dignity, that we're talking about fairy tales, because we have different economic views? When will you become a Minister of Finance who will be able to discuss seriously on different economic theories in order to make a prosperous confrontation, something that the Greek people expect? And do you continue to say what happened in 2015, when you left us with EUR 200 million cash available? If the pandemic had become then, would the country have been destroyed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Chakaloto, you're a parliamentary representative, you'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u218	I am a parliamentary representative and speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u219	Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u220	‘...’? Isn't it time? You're a university student too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u221	However, I would ask that the expression '...' - because it does not suit you - be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u222	But, Mr. President, the Prime Minister speaks, the Chief of Staff is speaking and they say we have a good conversation to see how we can go ahead...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u223	All right, Mr Tsakalotos wants to delete the expression '...'. Let's erase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u224	And the Minister of Finance comes in and makes an attack and tells us we're talking about fairy tales. So, Mr. Stakoura, what's not in your economic theory is a fairy tale? I mean, when we say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u225	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u226	Why? Can't I speak as a parliamentary representative? Don't I have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Chakaloto, you don't have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u228	Why are you interrupting me all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u230	I would also like the floor, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u231	Mr Levane, we'll give you the floor too. Let Mr. Chakalotos finish, and you'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u232	Why are you interrupting me all the time? That's not right. As a parliamentary representative, I would ask you from now on to the other point of view adopted by many economists, too many Nobelists, do not say that they are fairy tales. You say: "I think it's wrong what we say that measures should come forward" or "It's wrong to charge people with debts because in September, when they're all going well, business or individuals will not be able to spend, because I have another economic theory" and discuss it. Say that, to have a dialogue. Don't say that we destroyed you because we didn't have a QE and Mr.Mitsotakis miraculously convinced me all of Europe that he must enter the QE and had nothing to do with the pandemic and with Christine Lagard's decision! We have to have a conversation like that. I would like to return to you the 'false stories', and I would ask you, as Minister and as a university, to have the honesty of having a debate on what we agree, on what we disagree, on different points of view, so that we can find compositions, but not in this way that you are having the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u233	I'm sorry, Minister Kikilia, about the equality of arms, before I give the floor to you, I have to give the floor to Mr Lebanese. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u234	I think, first of all, Mr President, that Mr Chakalotos is wrong for himself. It's a little out of climate in its location.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u235	I have not said anything about fairy tales and untrustworthy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u236	If I may, I would like to say this: there has been a procedure which has been agreed in the Conference of Presidents. We also agreed here that the Chiefs should not give a second answer. I do not agree with what Mr Loverd said that the other parties have not been heard. Have all the political leaders spoken, except one who chose not to be in the Chamber today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u237	I am talking about the parties that speak of legislative acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u238	Our rapporteur has begun...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, you know the Department of Health is the most burdened now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u240	I know, I know. Mr Levane, please be brief, because the Minister for Health does have a number of obligations which he cannot delay. Wait a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u241	The Minister for Health will obviously speak, and then the parties will have the opportunity, both with their rapporteurs and with their parliamentary representatives, to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u242	Let us now give the floor to the Minister, because he really must leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u243	With all due respect to all my fellow Members, in the parliamentary procedure, which, in my view, is the highest of all - there is no doubt - let me, if you have the kindness, for five minutes, so that we can define five things that have been discussed, because it is very difficult for the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Health to be here, and it is the biggest public health crisis that the country has ever known. Please very much. First of all, I would like to say in advance that I am making two legislative improvements and accepting all four amendments tabled by the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Development, as is the Minister for Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u244	Listen. First of all, I will start by saying that protecting life, in my view, is the most courageous act. And if you can save a human life, it's something very brave and very special, how rather many lives. I would like to assure my colleagues that as a Ministry of Health very early, long before many countries, we have done our utmost to ensure that the country can be organised and structured in something that could never be foreseen by anyone, a pandemic. It happened in our generation to face a pandemic - every 100 years, perhaps more - in the best way, while other countries are huge, with very large sizes and strong national health systems, it seems that this has so far not succeeded. To predict, there was obviously no possibility. Adapt to data and early put things in a series like this, so that you can protect your fellow citizens, of course. So the National Public Health Agency, which I have talked about many times here, with young people and scientists to whom we have shown confidence, has managed to carry a huge amount of information to the public and private sectors, all the bodies and all the ministries, with a huge telephone centre in which scientists are always responding for all these two and a half months, with people who have been recruited successively by various governments, to whom we have shown confidence. The National Farmaku Agency has contributed with the moves that have been made early in being able to obtain the drugs that, as we are told by experts, infectiousists and epidemiologists, can deal with symptoms. In all this, IFET also contributed, which through the PPP runs all the process under these extraordinary conditions for the supplies of materials, which are so disgusting, as a global "war", in which I have kept the president appointed by the previous government. There is also the transparency and the way in which we handle things at the Ministry of Health and with the tripartite committee of control and accountability - this has also been done in the PPP - where all these donations from the private sector go. And I very much thank all the donors for all the kindness they had to support our people in need. The thirteen reference hospitals - twelve, two in each region at the beginning and a pediatric - and now all hospitals at the National Health System are at the forefront, as well as health centres and primary health care, with the cooperation of the private sector. At this point, I would like to table Article 6 - which has been published in the Official Journal of the Government - on the order of mobile things and consumables by private therapists and Article 4 on the issues of forced disposal of space. We've all put them in the MNF on ordering all the places and all the hospitals and all the private hospitals. And step by step, wherever needed, and what is needed in the evolution of this disease and of the virus, we will take it. I really hope that this curve will continue to be to such an extent that it is within the control of the country and within the capabilities of the National Health System. And I'm making a ministerial decision to ban regular surgery. They've fully co-operated. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I would like to stress the way in which we, the parties, have done it. And I want to say quite frankly that, with the exception of some minor misconduct, which I do not want to get into the process of commenting in the midst of a crisis, all my fellow Members, with the first political leaders, have set a good example for the citizens. In fact, I had the luck and honour of speaking with the political leaders, but also with the predecessor ministers, such as the Minister of Health Mr Xanthos, whom I am talking about and whom I am informing. And whoever asks me, I'll let him know. It is therefore exemplary how we deal with this whole global public health crisis and about how we communicate with the citizens and give them the example that we need to give them these times and times. I'm sorry, but at these difficult times in any case I can't and I don't want to get into the micro-political process. Because I see very well, firstly, that we have not escaped the danger and, secondly, that in our surrounding countries there is actually a war and hundreds and thousands of human lives are lost, which hurts me, as is the case for people who have been lost in our country, but also for those who are going to be lost. But we also need to talk about the battle of real heroes, doctors, nurses, paramedical and administrative staff, EGEY, the central agency of the Ministry of Health, EEAS, IFET, EOF, Civil Protection, EKAB rescuers, our police, but also all those who have contributed to this struggle. I thank them all from the bottom of my heart. But please, please, I think we are going too far ahead, at the moment on economics. However, I understand that the economy is a very important issue and a driving force for the country. And at the moment I am given the opportunity to publicly thank Christos Stakoura for what he has given the Ministry of Health - and he has given huge help on the basis of the country's data - but also on all the mechanisms that are facing the crisis. I would ask you very much to continue to this end, because it will be a very big thing to be able to save even one human life. I heard something about supplies, about things, about stories. The seven health regions, ladies and gentlemen, have asked to make supplies on the basis of the crisis a month ago, worth EUR 25 million. They managed to make supplies of 800,000 euros in the end. No supplier wanted to bring anything. The first SGEI with supplies of 11 million has contracted 3,500 euros. This is a war on personal protective equipment. The Greek State is trying with transparency rules to bring supplies from a market that is closed. What's going on? One country blocks each other's supplies. They have blocked our own personal protective equipment, which we have ordered and paid or paid a advance in different countries in the world. The Greek state makes a huge effort to bring all the material it can through China and the graciousness of the Chinese Ambassador to Greece, who wants to help, but also of the officials there. And private individuals have made a major contribution to this. This is a very difficult situation. Here you see mighty, huge countries talking about bananas, scarf masks and sewing masks. Please, let's not talk like it's all broken up. I first recognise that the National Health System has had timeless weaknesses. Did you hear me out anywhere in this crisis - and with the results we have, which we do not, but do the foreign countries say about us - and talk about the responsibility of previous government for the National Health System? I said he had time problems. Indeed, I endorse what you are saying, that this is a great opportunity with all these breathing donations, monitors, beds and donations of whole wings to the ICUs, to build another National Health System in what it has to do with intensive care units and some other things, too. However, the effort being made is enormous. Within a period of one and a half months, two months from five hundred sixty five IF beds, we arrived to have eight hundred pluss, and we managed to explore and find IFO from the private sector and from the military and university hospitals and to recruit with all the possibilities that the PPP and the law give us. I would ask you very much, because you have all said today, and especially the political leaders and first of all the Prime Minister, that April is a very critical month, let us not spend our time at such a critical moment, by exchanging, if you like, micro-political and communication wards between us. And as we have so far done in our overwhelming majority - I repeat all the opposition parties and thank you for that - let us continue to this end. What is a party position or attitude toward a human life worth, how much more against the human lives of all Greeks, all of the world? Obviously the day after this crisis will be another day. But the crisis is still here. And the efforts made at all levels are huge. I'll close as I started. By thanking all those who, in a spirit of consensus and solidarity - that the Greek people need to see - they support this. I want to say a very big thank you to doctors, nurses, paramedics, EKAB crews, rescuers, administrative staff and anyone who has helped to deal with this crisis. I want to promise the only thing that I can, that I will continue and continue to fight day and day in a struggle that dawns with other problems, huge problems, to keep the National Health System up, always telling the truth, always talking with transparency and respect to this man, who is anxiously coming to the hospital and asking for care, asks for us to care for his health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u245	Minister, I would like you to tell the House whether you will accept the four ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u246	I have said that, Mr President, all four ministerialmen, I have accepted them, and I have also given them legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u247	It's from the parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u248	No parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u249	Good. Before we move on, I will give the floor to the Minister for Development and Investment to support the amendments for two minutes, and then I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arabaji, for two minutes, so that they may leave and, if necessary, ladies and gentlemen, if you have questions for clarification, do so before they leave. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u250	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u251	I think Mr Pappas has a disagreement as to whether I should support the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u252	No, no, don't support them, but don't talk half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u253	No, no. But since he heard it, I have to say, because I was then and was a competent minister, when we did the final CEN, we had first received it from Andreas Loverdos - just for history, I say it, well, for anyone who wants to hear - the 800 euros at the ICU, at the private clinics, firstly, they did not include the remuneration of medical staff and, secondly, they also had a patient 30% of the top. So the comparison that we got 800 and 1800 says only someone who doesn't know what CENs are and how we made them. I say this because it is well to speak in general and to exaggerate if we cannot help the government, we will simply say things that stand. So there is no gift to anyone at all. Let us go, Mr President, to the two amendments which I would like to table and I would like the colleagues to agree if they wish or have any questions to ask me, very gladly. The first amendment is something - you are right - that concerns public opinion, namely how to deal with the issue of people's markets. I want to make something clear here. We are, as you can see, very concerned about that. There was the opinion of a lot of people who were saying we should shut them down. After discussion with Mr Chiodra and the group of infectious animals, we have come to the conclusion that we should not close them down. The reason is this: If we are completely shutting down the people's markets, the whole world that goes and shopping on the people's markets will have no other way out than going to shop in the supermarkets. So, after a very great effort we have made to be the world's flow to supermarkets, we would add several thousand people - and even presumptionally older - to supermarkets and experts' view is that they are better off than in a closed space. We have been told by this criterion that they want the people's markets not to be closed completely. We as the Ministry of Development, Mr President, do not want to close the people's markets for a second reason. What's the point? If we close the popular markets, of course the oligopolistic situation that will be created in the market will lead to increased prices for the consumer. So, in terms of growth, we do not want the people's markets to be closed down. But, in order to keep the people's markets under control, we have taken a series of security measures, such as a great increase in the distance between the benches to the five metres, security measures to participate with 50% of the benches so that they are not side by side and we have asked that the organisers of the people's markets try to avoid crowding from the world. This has been possible sometimes, Mr President, but to be fair in some people's markets, especially last Saturday, while the people's market organisers themselves had complied with security measures, except in three cases - which we imposed on them yesterday a 10-day closure after we checked that they did not keep the planned distances on the benches - yet the world was too much and there was a crowded road. I mean, the benches had a distance of five meters, but the citizens who came to shop were, I won't say one another, but I'm sure they're close to each other. So to be able to have a tool to reduce this crowd, we have the first amendment that says: that people's organisations can, on a recommendation from the Secretary-General of Commerce and Consumer Protection within two days of the municipality or organisation - depending on whether it is Athens or Thessaloniki or whether it is municipalities - decide new outdoor markets within the same municipality at the same time. That is not the case until now, because there is traffic on the streets and we do not want to prevent traffic on the streets. Now because of the quarantine there is no traffic in the streets. So we can say "slap children, instead of going up to each other on one road, put on the next bench road to get half the people out of here and calm down the system a little, even if they think it's appropriate. That is what the first amendment says. Of course, all these are measures which automatically cease to apply when the period of measures that we take on the coronary expires. The first paragraph states that it is for as long as the measures are in force and on the basis of a decision of the Minister for Health and even as long as the general measures are in force. When general measures are no longer in force, the relevant provision shall automatically cease to apply. The second one, always on the same basis, says that due to the authorisation of a special purpose of civil servants and in order to ensure market surveillance, the auditors of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection can carry out both drivers of their vehicles while carrying out checks. Why are we doing this? Service vehicles must have a driver, and the ones we make for control are passengers. Now we have given a special purpose permit to too many civil servants, including too many drivers. When we do not find a driver or the verifier needs to get out of control of going with his own car and therefore bear his own costs of moving, or if we do not find a driver, he cannot go out for control, because the auditor is now forbidden to drive the service car. We say, then, that for this period the auditors' workshops that we are making in the hard-core controls, if they do not find a service driver, will be able to drive the service car themselves so that they do not have to use their private car or stop the checks. These are the two amendments. I request your support. If anyone has any objections or questions, very gladly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u254	Minister, does this happen regardless of license category? Or do they have the same charge?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u255	Cars are the usual license we all have. It's nothing else. We don't have trucks in control, everything that's about passenger cars.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u256	Mrs Arabatzis, do you now want the floor or later to develop the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u257	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u259	Here you go, Mr. Poula.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I take this opportunity to make an important point on the people's markets. You are wrong with the producers. By this provision that you have brought, that is, a regional ban, you are giving the right to say people, producers, farmers that you are favouring supermarkets and professional sellers. While they have the right to take their products from the place of production to bring them to Athens to sell them, you do not give them the right to sell them to the people, and that is the great injustice these people feel. I'm telling you because I'm from a rural area, from Argolida, and there's too many coming up. I believe that you have accepted their pressure on this issue and you need to see it a little positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u262	Here you go, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u263	Mr Minister, I think the amendments you have put forward make sense. But I too would like to contribute to the debate, saying that I know that there is a proposal from the producers from the province that they should come to Athens and come to their products with a charger. I think you should look at this in a positive mood and make a decision that will resolve these people's hands and hands to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u264	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Colleague, Mr. Moschos, the president of the producers knows him. I must have spoken to him these days - he will tell you himself - if I tell you four hundred times, it's not rhetoric, it's real.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u266	He told me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u267	I'm totally in favour of them. They're damaged. We don't want to get hurt at all. How did this matter come about? It happened, firstly, when the projection had started that one city in northern Greece - which I do not want to name now - had many cases and producers from this city were found in another city that had happened to have no cases at all. When the locals realized they've come from the other city, there's been tension. This created a question of what we are doing in these cases. This was taken into account by Mr Chiodra's committee and the committee took a decision that they should be banned from region to region. It was not a decision, that is, the Ministry of Development, that was a decision of the committee within the framework of measures for the non-proliferation of the koruna. Most of all, because most of them come from areas that do not have many cases, to Attica, which has cases. So there's a fear of moving them back. We've tried to find a number of solutions. One of the things that was proposed to the committee is that of Mr Pappas. We have even proposed it with Mr Voridis in committee. I have to tell you that it did not pass the committee because their fear was that even if they declared it, in fact no one can control them if they can move their products, so there would be a hole in the quarantine measures. I'm telling you what the decision has come to us. This decision was passed on to me through the Minister for Rural Development who held this debate. I must tell you that Mr Vorides was extremely in favour of this proposal being passed, as I am in favour of going through this proposal. The non-representation of producers in the people's markets is harming us. It does not only harm the same for obvious reasons. It also harms the general interest, because it allows prices to rise in different kinds that we want to avoid. We added them to the EUR 800 aid, precisely to provide a small relief for their damage and on Monday they will be able to enter the platform. Of course, their compensation for the damage suffered will be provided by the Ministry of Rural Development. We don't want to blame them at all. However, because for us it is an important issue, we have come to an agreement in a few days to see it again with the committee responsible and depending on the course of the coronary if we could achieve a shape that will help them. However, I want to tell you that my intention is to be able to do their job as soon as possible. I'm really saying it. But I can't take the responsibility of legislating alone for something that has to do with public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u268	You became understandable, thank you, Minister. Mrs. Arabaji has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment of an obvious urgency, but also of equally obvious feasibility in these difficult days. In these difficult days, of course, the government and the relevant Ministry with the full support of doctors, nurses, workers and workers who are at the forefront of the Greek society and the political forces are fighting for the protection of human life and health. Tough days, however, for our producers, the economy, millions of business workers we are struggling with. Among the producers, there are also Greek livestock farmers, who are certainly affected after the decrease in exports of Greek lambs to the markets of Spain and Italy for the Easter of the Catholics. So what does the amendment say? That within two days of the ratification of the legislative act, all wholesale and retail operators of sheep and goatmeat and eggs should declare their stocks on the Ministry of Development's website and where these are stored. From now on, these data should be updated every three days, with the very same procedure that was successfully followed, as regards antiseptic scarves and surgical masks. Why are we doing this, ladies and gentlemen? It is well known that one of the biggest problems of Greek agricultural production and especially of Greek stockfarming hears in the name of Greekisms, namely, that, in the phenomenon, some scientists would like to import products from other countries at a much lower cost, baptizing them Greek, selling them as Greek prey, betting on the very fact that Greek consumers - and quite rightly - prefer Greek products, precisely because of their quality, nutritional safety, taste. This phenomenon, as you know, affects Greek production, farmers and farmers, our fishermen, it affects the national economy, of course, it affects healthy competition. We are all talking about this, as someone could say, many years in this Chamber and, more generally, in the public debate. But the difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that this government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the first Prime Minister to put the treatment of Hellenism very high on the agenda, leaves the words and goes to action. With this amendment, therefore, the state audit authorities, knowing the data that I have described, are gaining an extremely useful tool to deal more effectively with unfair commercial practices. And that's not all. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. It is a holistic programme that we are implementing. This year, for the first time, we are putting in place a plan of combined checks, so that every lamb and egg imported into our country can record its route from the entrance gate to the north of our country to the final consignee. For the first time five ministries - and I would like to thank my colleagues - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and Investment, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the competent forces and we are working together to achieve the best possible result. We said this year's Easter would be different, since there will be no way out for our special homelands. But the goal is to "Make Home" combined with buying and eating Greek lamb, Greek goat, Greek eggs. That is why it is our commitment to proceed to the most stringent and effective controls this year and in the years to come. Because if some people think that this year, because there will probably not be much increased imports, due to the great offer of Greek amnocorporations and the well-known difficulties in international trade, next year the controls will be relaxed, the very opposite will happen. After all, as the Minister for Rural Development has said several times and from this step forward, a legislative initiative comes very soon to deal with the scourge of Hellenism, by tightening up the Community framework and unification of the control mechanism at last. Ladies and gentlemen, dealing with the scourge of Hellenism is certainly a national issue and a national effort. I would therefore ask for support for this amendment from all the political forces. Thank you, too, for the time lamentation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u270	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 has asked for the floor for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, unfortunately the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Tasoulos, acted a few minutes ago as if he were not the President of the Greek Parliament, but as a mere MEP. In particular, while receiving this letter from the Chief Party of the Greek Parliament, Mr Varoufakis, instead of reading it as a debtor, he cut it down. Read specifically three of the twenty - three pages contained in the letter. Then he proceeded to the next institutional bump. He objected to the leader of our party, making judgments and, indeed, falsifying his words. The letter - I am able to know if you want me to read it to you - says that it proposes that all Members should be here. The President implied that our leader proposed that the House should close down. Not at all. Stay away from us. Mr. Varoufakis has proposed a specific thing. He said that through teleconferencing, like all other political leaders, spoke last week with the Prime Minister, so we could all be working here. I am therefore really in the unpleasant position to denounce this behaviour, which is ex-institutional and entirely out-of-parliamentary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u272	Because I happened to be here, I do not think the President intended to alter the content and substance of Mr Varoufakis' letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u273	I agree and I hope it's what you say. I know the President and appreciate him. However, it altered her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u274	I think it has given an explanation of how this time should be shortened, but also of the people who are in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u275	Mr Varoufakis asked instead to be the three hundred in the House. The President made it clear that Mr Varoufakis said no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u276	Mr Nikolaos Papapas, rapporteur from SYRIZA, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u277	Well, no, Mr President, a little tolerance. I'm sorry I'm going to claim it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u278	A small tolerance will exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u279	Yes, because it's three acts of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u280	I'm not putting on time yet. The Chiefs spoke. We said for eight minutes, but there's always a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u281	Obviously we do not claim tolerance on this scale, but here comes a set of arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u282	What to tell you, that's what the Rules of Procedure say. We followed this, but as you know, we don't keep exactly the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u283	Show us a corresponding understanding, depending on the weight of responsibility that we bear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u284	Start, don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u285	So I start with saying that the easiest thing for the political forces, ladies and gentlemen, is to do here in a trial of intent. I would like to say that we welcome very positively the way Mr Kikilias has been placed. If Mr. Kikilias had trialed intentions, when Blonde and Paul raised the phone, to exchange views, many problems would not have been solved. And I'd like to invite Mr. Stavura to move in this wavelength. Of course, we have different views, we have different ways in which we appreciate the recent economic and political history of the country. That is the essence of democracy. But if we start here doing a trial of intent, I'm honest with you that we have too much to talk about. Because different unexplained things happen. This also concerns the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who I confess made a negative impression on his position, which he dedicated to defeating the Opposition, because we said that our country took measures with other countries in Europe and closed down schools together with twenty other countries. It did not ban traffic first and that fortunately, it is not geographically in an area in which hundreds of thousands of people are moved by the day. Brussels - Paris is two hours by train. How can we just say it? And Champions League's well-known struggle had the appropriate results. Why is that a bad thing to see? Does this more profound study of events, numbers and events help to find out where the real problem is and what to deal with? We believe it also helps here the worst thing we have to do is launch charges against each other, implying even that someone wishes to destroy. For God's sake! We're talking about human lives. Of course, we have political disagreements and we also welcome the shifts that are taking place in the face of this crisis, because I had not heard until the Prime Minister came up in Step, a moment ago, to have a position which would be the subject of the public health system. And that's actually what it's all about. And this is the top fight we have to fight, isolate the virus and win this battle, because without that there is no battle for the economy. If we do not get to the point of isolating the virus and starting economic activity, all the others we are discussing will have no substance. It is a prerequisite for us to get there, and it is a good faith among the political forces. This is not the climate of confrontation that the Greek people expect. Unfortunately, we've started a public debate on whether we have money or don't. You are tempted to tell you that it is obvious that you have money to give 11 million to the media, which will be shared by a private advertising company, while there is an institutional framework for strengthening the media. And I want to catch up with you, because I and Andreas Xanthos had signed a ministerial decision in mid- 2018 that required the messages for the protection of public health to be free, and even with very strict standards, and this law is being circumvented. Why? Do not tell us to strengthen the press, because there is also a framework for strengthening the press, but you do not go on that because it has rules on transparency, on employment in the press, on the maintenance of jobs. Unfortunately, you go without saying and give 11 million via advertising and relieve the channels of the 21 million that they had to pay for the licence, based on the unconstitutional Pappa law. Do not laugh, Mr Poula, because what our resignation has pulled for this particular process is not too little. So you give 11 million and 21 on top of the media, you give 30 million to private diagnostics, you give 11 million to "MOREA S.A.", because the road to Kalamata, a total of 75 million, has been said only by these examples. And that's where there's money. And bring a number of provisions into the specific acts of legislation, by way of derogation from all the provisions, to make direct awards. We understand the need for urgency. However, we have made a proposal to you: there should be a intergroup committee on these assignments. Why don't you take her? What measures will you take if you find that a public body pays a euro for a particular product and another public body pays three? We need to inject transparency here and I think that our proposal is in the right direction and you should consider and adopt it. So while you found the 75 million to facilitate interests, we haven't seen the recruitments we should have seen. You proceeded with the two thousand subsidized recruits. It's three hundred and four hundred of them. Once you've been elected, you canceled the notice for a thousand doctors, which you have brought back now. Go ahead with our policy of four thousand recruitments, too, to health and, of course, do what our President has told you in his speech with mass diagnostics. There is a major issue with tourism. Unfortunately, our tourism will be under pressure and you need to process a special programme now, if the Greeks can fill any gaps from the demand for the Greek tourism product. Secondly, you come here and tell us - and Mr Mitsotakis said so too, Mr Stakora - that you will also have the NSRF, which will finance the Greek economy. I'm sorry, how will this happen when you cancel the contests one after the other? Will the gold beans fall out of the sky with the ESRB money? Projects need to be implemented and we have called on you at the first moment to abandon the procrastination and transfer of the works, such as the metro of Thessaloniki, the Patron - Pyrgos, the E65, the 4 metro line of Athens, the North Axis, the Kastelli. There was prepared planning to implement these projects, and even guaranteed funding, which would mean a net influx of money from European funds. Nothing, though. The only thing you know is, unfortunately, that you put these figures in your communication policy, to say that your intervention goes to 10 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be briefed. I would also like to refer to the issue of free professionals and scientists. You have time to turn the wheel. It is insulting what you do to people who have been working for twenty and twenty-five years on the free market and have been able to stand by telling them "go and train them to get the 600 euros of the training", as if we were mocking each other that they don't know how to use computers. Also, see immediately the issue of first residence. Think of a man who's locked up and keeps what he's asked to keep, not to move, learns he's on parole and knows he's in danger of his home. And be a little more pushy in the banks. I now come to the core of economic policy, which you defended from this step, Mr Stakoura. You're making a huge mistake. I will not trial for intentions, but I will say that I read in the Sunday press the article by Mr Scortsos, who is the Minister of your Government and was previously in BSE and, of course, Mr Vetta, the scientific director of IOBE. Exactly the same logic. What's that logic? The logic you are implementing: the procrastination, let him see where he is going,'seeing and doing'. Please tell me how much financial wisdom it took to understand from March 20th to March 30th that almost all sectors of the economy will be affected? Ten days have elapsed and you come with your practice to confirm our criticism that the measures are inadequate. If the measures were insufficient, they would not need every two days to intervene. Do you realize that with your choices hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises will be tested? The image of Greek entrepreneurship is that two out of three companies had zero profits or losses last year. And now I come to the big picture, to tell you what? What is missing from the Greek project that other European countries have? A big bailout program. You go up to this step and you and Mr Georgiadis, who is not here, and you tell us that a 1 billion billion-dollar guarantee fund will be built, 0.5% of GDP. Are you speaking with your colleagues, to know what the scale of the intervention is? There, therefore, a very serious and large injection is needed and you can practically implement what Mr Mitsotakis said from this Step just before. He said there's no moral danger. This is very important. In a crisis like this, in such a scale disturbance for our economy, when our economy is shocked, it is impossible to locate the strategic misappropriator. Therefore, not only should the guarantee scheme be increased by law, but banks should also be forced to make it available to all Greek entrepreneurship. If we follow your methodology and sum up the taxes that are being deferred - which is well done, because you said that we are not in favour - the viability of businesses is not very affected. A business whose turnover is now sinking and will simply be forced to pay its obligations in September, I think it is not a help that it can save itself. Of course, these moves will also be made. In Germany, however, deferred taxes, direct budgetary intervention and leverage, guarantees and loans that go to entrepreneurship are 51% of GDP. This is today's evidence. In France it is 22.9%, in Italy it is 21.2%, in the United Kingdom it is 17.9%, in Denmark it is 12.2% and in the United States it is 12.2%, with different mixtures. And what about Greece, Mr. Stavoura and Mr. Georgiadis? Did you tell us about 3.5% of GDP? That is what you said to us, 3.5% of GDP. So what exactly can Greek entrepreneurship expect right now? Conspire in line to get some support and assistance, on what condition? To suspend contracts of employment, whereas it should be precisely the opposite direction, i.e. not to suspend contracts of employment. And don't tell us that the Easter gift will be paid in June or July, because then many of the businesses will already be at risk. So that's the plan. It's kind of nicely formulated. It's a project we disagree with. We believe that it will put the Greek economy in a very big crisis, break the spine in its literally and we will do too many years to recover. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Andreas Poulas, special speaker of the Change Movement, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronary pandemic has put our country in a new reality. We must recognise the coordinated way and the preparedness with which the government has acted since the beginning of the pandemic. The contribution of the scientific community, and in particular Mr Tsiodra, to the resurgence and management of the epidemic, is commendable. Apart from the congratulations, however, there have been failures, omissions, delays which we should be obliged to take as the Opposition to show them. According to the World Health Organisation, extensive detection is therefore extremely important to limit the spread. But we are on a different path. Because we have moved to this science-thinking school I do not know about it. Is this a policy-management issue? Your choice to keep artificially low the number of cases is obvious. We believe, however, that we are achieving the opposite result. Our proposal says that, if we do not have a test, we should carry out tests to detect the health, the chronic illnesses, the elderly, the disabled, the servants in the Security Body, the cleanliness officials and generally do as many tests as possible in the population. At this point I would like to stress the need to increase the centres for analysis of samples. The Minister for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, has announced to the committee that the National Center for Haemorrhage will also participate as a centre for analysis of the coronary. We're happy about that. But you're late. University workshops, public research centres for some time have been offered with the infrastructures that have to enter the virus analysis programme and you have not responded yet. At the same time, it is noted that private diagnostic centres are taking samples at a cost of between EUR 180 and 350, from what I have heard, and act as brokers. They take the samples and send them to PASTER and EMCDDA to make the analysis. These are speculation phenomena which must be seen, checked and, if possible, imposed and a fine. On the other hand, we see that you give 30 million for diagnostic centers. It is a serious proposal for us to pay tribute and be charged by the EEA to get this matter over with so that we know what we are giving and what we are paying instead of giving money to diagnostic centres without control. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, we have stressed the need to protect as much as possible the ESS, to recruit, to finance its modernisation and upgrade. The ESS really raises the burden of pandemic. It is the sanitarians who are giving the battle every day and already 11% of them are ill, with the risk of closing clinically and failing to respond to the system. But today, what's going on? With the gun on the head you are trying to patch empty organic posts with subscribing, contracted for four months, with the contest you told us that you have been proclaiming for the ninety doctors who are now able to be appointed and who is moving in slow steps. Allow me, Mr President-in-Office, to tell you that the ESS was not ready to deal with COVID -19. Fortunately, however, the rapid adoption of the measures has helped us. This is where he wants a lot of attention. In order for this advantage not to be lost, we really need to see the support of the ESS, even at this very moment. It is not enough, therefore, to give applause to the philosophical, devotion, for the goodness of the ERC health service. In order to ensure that the obligations are not forgotten, we are proposing that the ancillary contracts be converted into an indefinite period of time on the basis of what is provided for in the legislation and that they be integrated into the health staff of the ESS and the National Social Care System. These two areas, the National Health System, health workers, and the National Social Care System, should be integrated into heavy and unhealthy. We've testified it three times to this day. But this proposal has not been accepted. This is the real practical recognition of these people's offering to public health. Another major issue that concerns us is the question of IF beds. Since September 2019, we have asked for the recruitment of staff to open up the fifty beds for IF. We welcome the fact that even through pandemic you have opened the seventy-five. From 20 January, with a question that I submitted to you together with Mr Kegeroglu - and I will put it in the Minutes - we stressed the need for immediate measures to deal with the coronary. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Poulas, presents for the minutes the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So your delayed reaction to the rental of private IF beds became an easy victim of private therapies and clinics, which have been delaying the contract with the EEAS since September 2019. Now, under pressure that a possible rise in the coronary will cause uncontrolled demand in ICU beds, they have achieved a double price of compensation, from 800 to 1,600 euros. Your call for wage costs is not convinced, of course. It is also noteworthy that the publication "Kathemerini", which says that, based on studies carried out at the Greek universities in the Greek ITH, the lowest price is from 880 to 460 euros. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Andreas Pulas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This unfavourable circumstance should therefore not be a "white check" for private hospitals and private clinics and, at the same time as they refuse to treat cases with a coronary, leaving the exclusive burden on the ERC. Of course, I have heard the Prime Minister who said the cost is over 2,000 euros. I think the numbers they gave him are wrong. I believe that they are probably in another era, perhaps in the 2004-2009 era, which had all been launched very much. From there have taken numbers and talk about 2,000 euros a day's cost? So the battle is being given to the ICUs. And we, the Change Movement, acknowledging the needs that arise, have already made progress - our parliamentary group - on the equipment of five beds of IGC, and at the same time we expect the President of Parliament to take any initiatives that we can take. We want to stay out of auction procedures, auction procedures. We really want to support in practice and over time, as we have been doing for so many years, the ESS. Another important issue is that of donation. Indeed, entrepreneurs, shipowners and large companies, but also private individuals, have responded to the health shortages of the ESS - respirators and technology machines - and we thank them in particular for that. It seems that everyone has realised that the armoring of the ESS is a national issue. The sums of donations are very large. We have proposed that this money should be managed through parliamentary control. The Government prejudges the establishment of a committee of recognised prestige. Don't be like the Molyviats Fund, then with the fires in Elias. We're skeptical in this model. We want all this to go through the House for reasons of credibility. On the subject of vigilance, traceability of cases, we have tabled concrete proposals. We're not going to go into the logic of repeating them. We simply want to point out here that, through the proposals of our own, through what we have submitted to you all this time, we could have avoided this expenditure of EUR 10.8 million from the Ministry of Development with the invitation of interest - which ended on 31 March - for the five hundred mobile units. Finally, with regard to the information messages and the EUR 11 million you give for them, I would say that it has caused society. Take it seriously. We believe that public health information should be made free of charge and free of charge. I'm going through financial issues. On the major issue that has arisen with tourism, we need a plan. We need a plan for the next day. Tourism is our country's heavy industry. There will be too much money missing from the budget, which we have had all these years. We need to take a serious look at this issue, stand on it and help workers, because they will also taste the bitterness of the measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u288	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u289	I shall conclude, Mr President. A similar issue is the question of farmers. I mentioned earlier that you are giving the impression that you are favouring supermarkets and professionals by making a selective marketing of products and telling certain producers whose products at the moment are to be sold, that they should give them to the trader and that the trader has the right to go to the people to sell them. He doesn't have the right, because there's a ban. In Argolida, Boeotia and Corinthia farmers have really risen. I'm telling you to take this seriously. As far as scientists are concerned, this smuggling of training coupons cannot be understood. It is clear that the measures you have announced are modest in relation to other states, they are absolutely inadequate to support the country's already exhausted production base and to address the unemployment that is expected to be launched because of the coronary. The government has the opportunity, by using the QE mechanism and the evolution of this year, to achieve surpluses, to take courageous measures to prevent companies from closing down, not to tighten up the self-employed and to support the workers. Banks should also not be left unchanged in this situation. They must take measures to suspend the citizens' credit obligations, which have necessarily shut down their businesses, and put money on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Colleague, you've been talking for 12 minutes already. The Chiefs have also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u291	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is important to protect the first home by extending the ban on auctions, in order to avoid creating a new generation of overdue households. The coronary pandemic has global implications. The European Union has not stood up to it. We are waiting for a new plan to support the economies of their Member States. We are therefore unreservedly supporting the prospect of issuing Eurobonds and we hope that the Prime Minister will play a leading role in his claim. From this moment on, we are seeking all Greeks to go out intact and unified. We as a Movement of Change with our proposals and with our patriotism we are present at this critical occasion, at the time - I remind you - that neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA supported us when in the early decades we faced the vulture of monuments. We are today very responsibly encouraging you to do what the country needs, to strengthen public health, to help small and medium-sized enterprises and to households, to support society. I hope we're listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Lambroulis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. The government claims that through the measures it burdens the consequences of the pandemic by supporting businesses and workers. Not only the JRC's health measures, but also the government's measures as a whole, are totally inadequate, and much is in a dangerous direction and they come to stay, at the expense of our workers and our people. Workers have had rich experience of recent years of the economic crisis, of all the alleged exceptional anti-corruption measures adopted successively by the governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, etc., which have remained in full force and in the recovery phase. The reversals of wages, contracts, redundancies, the take-off of flexibility are today the starting point for the new attack. Thus, the huge antique arsenal is further enhanced, ready to enter into force the next day of the pandemic. Already civil servants speak openly of recession, even greater unemployment and a fall in labour-lover income. In fact, it is a challenge for the propaganda with which the government invests the parallel anti-corruption measures that it adopts with 'fast track' procedures to support capital, baptizing'social sensitivity indicator' and the Minister of Labour to speak of unprecedented protection of society and of workers. In fact, the "job" of the Minister, the government, takes off not only by confessing guilt, after he has allowed the employer to organize, with tens of thousands of redundancies, unfavourable changes in industrial relations, which you are not talking about, not only because you did not cancel those tens of thousands of redundancies until 20 March, but because today you are giving the employer the green light to continue the redundancies, making use of all the anti-government tools, so as not to be regarded as such, for example, by not renewing fixed-term contracts and hundreds of workers' redundancies at airports. At the same time, it is a challenge, enthusiasm and enthusiasm toward workers that there is no pay cut anywhere, when the Minister himself admitted a few days ago that, with the new rotation regulation, the Government gives the employer another flexibility tool, that is, their staff will use 50% with half the wages, to live, as they said, companies, baptising redundancies under the definition of'safe business'. It is a lousy anti-government weapon, which has been at the forefront of the labour market since 1990, with the "blessings" of all governments since then and which, of course, has been supporting the current government with the possibility of unilateral enforcement. This measure, as Mr Brutsis provoked, is accompanied by a 'basket' of beneficial provisions, suspensions of taxes and contributions to the employer. Thus, for the government, the more than ten thousand redundancies in March are 'permanently forgotten', while not only does it forbid all redundancies, but it makes it clear that the clauses on job protection do not concern so-called 'unfair departures', as thousands of forced resignations or fixed-term contracts are being baptized. The anti-corruption menu of legislative acts and joint ministerial decisions continues with the possibility of transferring employees from one company to another, without safeguarding workers' rights and without disturbing reactions, such as the recent strikes at OTE, Piraeus Bank, etc. Another example is the last act of legislation, which enables one firm to unilaterally impose work on part-time workers at the same time, to suspend contracts of employment to another place, to combine this measure and telework with the same worker, while it can impose on other overtime workers up to 12 hours a day. All these measures are accompanied by the recurring fairy of 'all together, state, businesses, workers, we are fighting the unprecedented crisis of this period'. The aim is to disorientate it, to sum up the fact that the measures taken by the government support large businesses, to strengthen them in their efforts to limit losses to turnover and profits, but by reloading the broken workers. It is precisely this direction that the first steps in the legislative acts we are discussing are being taken. Thus, for example, the measure to suspend the employer's obligation to register directly in the "ERGAN" system any change in working hours, along with the possibility of flexible working or working hours at a distance, is a green light to be made at workplaces of arbitrariness in working hours and in working relations. Thus, changes in industrial relations will not be announced anywhere, and will not be controlled, under conditions that all sorts of work flexibility will be wrangling with a formal government hat. We also have the measure concerning the parental workers following the closure of the training courses which give employers a signal to attack the right of normal leave. Instead of requiring employers to take additional days' leave with full benefits and insurance, it leads to workers' normal leave being depleted, which is questioned and left standing during the crisis. Not only does the Government not announce sanctions, fines and penalties to employers who are breaking industrial relations and working hours, but rather suspends controls, since the measures it proposes are wishful. At the same time, at the same time as workers take part in their leave for businesses, a suspension of the payment of insurance contributions is foreseen. On the one hand, the employer is relieved and relieved and, on the other hand, the worker pays with his permission, that is to say his salary, since normal leave and each licence are part of insurance. In the name of the exceptional needs of the period in a number of branches, undertakings are entitled to employ on Sundays and holidays, intensifying their work, reaching them to the limits of neutralization and beyond, but not requiring the employer to immediately convert any part-time contracts into full-time contracts. Nor can we accept as the way of decision-making by the institutions at the local government agencies the rotating meeting on issues that do not only concern the treatment of pandemic, public health and the adaptation of the functions of municipalities to responses. A number of municipal regional authorities are taking the opportunity to pass decisions and serious issues, which are not urgent, let alone when there is a regulation that decisions are implemented immediately and by way of derogation, which enables them to challenge their legitimacy. In addition, we consider, for example, arbitrary the circular of the Ministry of Interior, which is being evacuated through Article 10 of the Act of Legislative Content from 11 March on the transfer of officials, which actually requires contractors, in this case, of schools cleaners, who work and are paid on the basis of the Chamber's contraction, to be taken into school in the afternoon, while many supplementing their low income, starting from EUR 150 to EUR 350, with morning work. What are you doing? The municipal authorities - and therefore the Ministry of Interior - call on the cleaners to work early and eight hours in the cleansing services of the municipalities, declaring the devastating change in their contract, the overthrowing of all work rights and, in fact, by exchanging workers. We call for that interpretation to be withdrawn. It is unacceptable, morally and illegally, on the basis of at least the existing working law, unless the Ministry of the Interior requires the workers concerned. Another example: it is possible for businesses to unilaterally impose teleworking, a measure designed for years, eliminates the limits between working time and non-working time, and makes workers readily available for work every hour and every day, a measure that has full support for workpatients, as it has been included in the 2006 National Association of Workshops in the context of improving the competitiveness and productivity of businesses. Of course, it is a long list of counter-terrorism measures and, respectively, the appellant's rights - those which are now left - of workers in the next period. That is why, by making use of all the means, workers must claim not to pay for the marble themselves again, to declare the redundancies and harmful changes imposed all over March, to pay the Easter gift normally on time, to have payment suspensions of public debts, banks, CECs, suspensions in auctions and seizures, or cuts in electricity and water, to abolish the PPP for the reduction of up to 50% of the wage, to abolish any measure against trade union activity. Measures continue to be insufficient in relation to the size of the financial consequences faced by thousands of self-employed and self-employed scientists, either because they themselves have closed down their micro-enterprises because of the emergency measures or because of the dramatic decline in economic activity that embraces all sectors. We have tabled a number of measures in this respect for both self-employed and self-employed scientists in the committee. We also believe that the government, beyond the necessary measure of suspending school work, is a clear idea of the design to support school-leaving skills. It does not provide for measures and resources for those students who have families affected by the social, economic, psychological consequences of the pandemic, while the problem of the continuation of the feeding programme in schools has not yet been addressed. At the same time, while recognising that thousands of teachers and students were written in the virtual classes for distance education, it does not take steps to support this process in terms of as much as possible equivalence for all students. In addition, it does not regulate anything on educational television. And if something emerges in these dramatic and difficult conditions for our people, it is the value of a public and free health system, modern and fully equipped, capable of protecting people's health, both in standing and in emergencies. What is being measured today is not just the responsibility of everyone, but the ability and readiness of the state, the social and economic organisation of the system as a whole to deal with such a situation, of course, primarily in defending the health of the people. And this is not the case, since in the battle against the "invisible", as is said, an enemy in public hospitals, health centers, primary health care in general needs permanent personnel, need "weapons", respirators, protection measures, IF beds and beds in clinics, need what we call the "personal protection measures" for health workers, but also for workers in businesses, institutions and elsewhere. Of course, the government can always gamble on the workers in hospitals, the protagonists in the conflict against the coronary, by sharing beautiful words and applause about the work they are doing, by announcing an extraordinary allowance, but they cannot be seen as passing away - for example, the reductions in wages and allowances, the deprivation of rights, threats to redundancies or the closure of hospitals and departments, and the intensification of the work of health care. The workers in hospitals are protagonists because they give self-determination and sacrifice the battle for the health and life of the people with little or no means in a well-balanced system of health from infrastructure and personnel. They are protagonists, because these difficult hours are denying under their masks to drown their voices, highlighting problems and claiming solutions, not only to the emergency issues caused by the epidemic, but permanent and substantial solutions to the real protection of the lives of the people. Faced with this reality, along with the conscious effort to protect themselves and the whole of society from the epidemic and to develop solidarity with those who are most sensitive to its effects, workers and popular strata should not be encouraged by the government and its anti-grassroots policy, to omit the responsibilities of all governments for the current state of health and the jungle of the labour market, where the medication for the coronary is presented with the pharmacopoeia of the same anti-grasss policy that has led us to this end. The only way is for the people to raise the flag of claims, fight for immediate measures to protect their health, safety, life, not to pay the marble again. In conclusion, Mr President, we consider the government's measures in relation to these legislative acts to be inadequate both for the support of workers, the self-employed, the farmers and so on. Secondly, we believe that they leave the people unarmed and, thirdly, that they come to scan any employment right left standing by the policy of all governments in recent years in the name of emergencies. That is why, as we have said and tabled to the committee, we are voting against legislative acts. We are voting 'at present' in the first article, namely the first legislative act against both of the other two. Of course, there are articles which, if we were to vote separately on an article, we would be voting, such as the Ministry of Health, education and saying. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u294	The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. If I understood correctly, the Minister of Finance said that the pillow is only EUR 15.7 billion and the public agencies' cash reserves are EUR 20 billion. Right? He also said that the budgetary measures, according to his own calculations, are 3.5% of GDP and not 3% of the Prime Minister said, if I am not mistaken. Finally, I do not think it is right that statistics should be used selectively, i.e. quarterly and six months at one time. The growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2019 was certainly reduced to 1%, according to statistics, without the problems of Brexit and "THOMAS COOK", but also of today's pandemic, so we should reasonably be concerned about the current circumstances. The current crisis seems to be evolving like the 2008 and 2001 crisis together, and I would remind you that in the 2008 crisis, shortly afterward, our deficit was about 10% of GDP, without ELSTAT's alchemys, so it may be much more and the debt exceeds 200% of GDP. From there on, our country will find itself in a very difficult situation and we must know that from now on. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, before us, we have referred to almost all the articles of the PPP with comments and questions, which, unfortunately, none of the relevant ministers have answered, giving us the impression that this committee was also a pretext, as is the case with all of them, except for some exceptions, such as the one we have examined. So it seems that the government believes that it knows everything much better, so it is useless for the contributions of the other parties, which we fear will lead Greece to another tragedy, because it is the same party that overruns Greece by 2009 and then went bankrupt in 2012, saving as we know the German and French banks, instead of our country. We therefore want to reach a consensus on all parties under these circumstances and there must be consensus. But how will it be achieved under these conditions? Amongst other things, we have referred to the fiscal measures announced by the government of EUR 7.3 billion or 3.9% of GDP, according to our calculations, which we will be tabling in the Minutes together with others later, with almost no support for domestic production and the cash that is close to EUR 15 billion. We asked where he would find so much money unless she believed in the well-known "liquids" of Mr Papandreou, which led us to the cliff. We did not get any response to the committee. The Minister for Finance, however, assessed the cost of EUR 6 billion in cash for March in a newspaper article, which I will also present in the Minutes, and the EUR 6.8 billion in April. However, we have found in the PPP a number of direct assignments, wishing that they are not its own, that is, the government, people or anything else. We asked about the 13 million euros that were given for information, when it is free to broadcast such advertising, considering that this is a big scandal, which will be good to investigate right now. Finally, we again protested about the usual phenomenon of not appraising certain expenditure from the General Accounting Office of the State, while we asked about illegal immigrants coming from Libya to Crete under Article 9 of the third MDG. We didn't get an answer again. By continuing now in today's debate, with the health tragedy we are experiencing, before dealing with the issues of the economy, it should be mentioned in the pandemic by adopting assumptions that it considers reasonable, without that it is legalistic, since no one is sure of its development. In this context, it seems initially that without measures, the virus would spread aggressively, with the number of people who should be presented to hospitals going far beyond their capacity, especially in Greece, where the health system has collapsed because of the memoranda, judging by a small study that we will also present in the Minutes along with all the rest. It seems from this that the total funding of health expenditure at current prices was reduced from EUR 23.17 billion in 2009 to EUR 15.7 billion in 2013 or by EUR 46.7%, a huge percentage. It is also apparent from the next article that we will be tabling in the Minutes, which considers the closure of hospitals by the troika to be a felony. Already, it was written from that time. So we knew very well what he was waiting for. As far as intensive care facilities are concerned, we have only 6 per 100 000 people, according to a table that we will table in the Minutes, when Germany has 29.3 and the average of the European Union is 11.5, with two places in Europe before the end. Without measures, therefore, a large number of people in the high-risk group and not just, would die while we are still at the beginning of the pandemic. By taking measures now, the contamination process will be delayed, i.e. less polluted but in a longer period of time. This will take time, but it must be properly used by the states, so that they can obtain what is needed for the care of future patients, such as artificial breathing machines, more IF beds, masks and so on, for which we hope the government is already looking after. But once the measures are stopped, the rate of infections will be increased rapidly, because the pandemic will only then, when 70% of the population acquire immunity on the basis of these estimates. From this point on, the virus will not find enough people to infect, so its spread will cease. In this regard, the problem is postponed by taking action, but it is not solved, as in the Memorandums. So at some point, he's likely to come back to his entire extent. On the basis of the above theory, in China, the virus will return, after it has stopped taking measures, which remains to be confirmed or disproved, but in any case it will help to have a better picture. But anyway, taking economic measures for such a crisis of supply and demand together, as we have stressed from the outset in our speeches, unique in history, must have a medium-term horizon, at least one year, so that our economy is not completely destroyed. Continuing, of course, the problem is that Europe is now at the heart of pandemic, while not all countries are taking the same measures, such as China, nor do they have the same health systems, especially the countries that have been imposed on them by the German austerity policy, such as Italy, with 40% lower costs than in 2009, Spain, Greece, etc. The situation could therefore develop differently in a Europe which is only in a context, as it has different health systems and each country only cares for itself. For example, Germany which, on the one hand, closed its borders with France, on the other hand, did not support Italy when it requested protection and breathing masks at the beginning. Also, the Czech Republic and Poland who seized medical equipment, which China sent to Italy with the Czech Republic to use already. On the other hand, Germany has refused to issue Eurobonds which it requested first Italy to support in its economy by the enormous damage caused to them by the pandemic. She has proposed to her that she be borrowed by the ESM, which we recall has been converted into the German International Monetary Fund, while at the same time saying she is concerned about the different problems of her economy, which should be cured later. Obviously, it means structural changes similar to those imposed on Greece, such as criminal domestic devaluation, excessive taxation, sales of everything, seizures, auctions, hospital closures, redundancies, etc. So the solutions proposed by Germany have given rise to the strong reaction of the Italians - quite rightly - that the problem facing the country is not due to the same, but to the pandemic. Any European solidarity must therefore be activated. From the point of view of the economy, which is suffering in many countries because of its closure with the stock exchanges, and not because of the epidemic, and also with the debts to speed up their upward trend, solutions must be found which, on the one hand, will contain the outbreak of the coronary, and on the other hand will not cause a financial and economic chaos. As far as the European Union is concerned, the solution needed for many years now is either its real integration or its dissolution, since no monetary area is able to survive without fiscal, banking and insurance union. In this respect, the Eurobonds would be in the right direction, while we are driving because of Italy, which is highly dependent on France because of its banks' exposure to Italian bonds of around EUR 385 billion, to dismantle the euro zone if Germany does not change its attitude. We should therefore also take this possibility into account when it comes to measures for the pandemic that directly affect the economy. Unfortunately, there is no time to mention our proposals in particular, but only that we need a well-structured support programme, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, such as Germany. We will be tabling the relevant reports in the Minutes. Not seeing it and doing the Greek Government. This programme must concern mainly production and investment, and investment opportunities exist in many areas, such as health, medicines, defence industry, energy, and especially in the primary sector, using the money that will be made available, Europeans as well, the ESDP, etc., from what the government has announced. In any case, there must be a government assessment of unemployment and GDP with ceilings and ceilings for one, two and three months. Otherwise, we will walk in the dark, adopting spasm measures that will cost us huge sums, making our debt impossible to serve ever and strangle once and for all our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u296	Mrs Fotini Bakadima, special buyer of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating three legislative acts today. For the economy of time, I'm only going to stand by some parts of the first two and focus on the second one. Firstly, although we have clearly stated our support for all health measures, we cannot comment on the fact that we have on several occasions been slow to implement them. For example, on 25 February, the first act of legislation we are debating today provided for the closure of the places of worship, but it came to light on 16 March by the government. While other provisions that should have not even been taken, for example, to carry out mass tests. I would remind you that on 17 March, the World Health Organization pointed out that some countries do not carry out enough tests, advising that tests should be carried out on any suspected cases. In addition, the suspension of payment of VAT for certified debts and instalments is being introduced and the deadline for payment of our insurance contributions is extended, when there should be discharge. Since the Minister said before that he has not heard the parties placed them on board, this is our position. There should be discharge since, firstly, the already burdened and anemic Greek economy will accept the blow of a new upcoming recession that is consistent with all the so far estimates deeper than that of 2018. Secondly, especially employed, small and medium-sized, retired and unemployed people who have been affected all these years will be affected once again, remaining unknown even though how they will manage not to meet needs more than basic, but to survive. At the same time, the second legislative act applies a suspension of the obligation of employers to register in the 'ERGAN' any change in the working hours or organization of workers' working hours, their overworking and legal overtime, thus forming a basis for the conversion of fulltime contracts into parttime and thus the payment of 50% of their earnings. A special purpose licence is now an absolutely positive measure. But all the initiatives must be taken to shield and prevent incidents that we have already heard, where employers are pressing their workers to make use of their normal licence, which is, in all cases, illegal and not to use the option given to them, the special-purpose licence. In several parts of the first two legislative acts and the third we have mentioned the possibility of direct awarding, for example, for the purchase and supply of materials. We fully understand the necessity of this period and understand that the crisis we are facing imposes such a move. Nevertheless, we are committed to monitoring closely all manner of implementation and any decision to be taken on this matter. Equally close will we also monitor the extension of residence permits. This is also necessary in order not to be used as a pretext to make the temporary suspension of asylum services consolidated. We fully agree with the transmission of information messages to be made free of charge. We continue, however, to want explanations of the 11 million euros committed to the implementation of a communication campaign on prevention measures against the coronary. Let's move on soon to the third MDG. We believe that it contains mainly positive measures such as regulations aimed at the proper functioning of the food market in order to ensure adequate personal protection. However, we believe that even the creation of the 1520-digit complaints digit provided for in Article 3 is not enough. It is necessary to take even more initiatives to ensure that there is constant control of all attempts to make redundancy and speculation and to punish some wholesalers who are trying to save a product and speculate in the midst of a pandemic. Below, Article 8 provides for the acceptance of donations to the Ministry of Health. We have too many times from this step with courage to say that the issues and problems of the health sector should not be solved by charitable initiatives. Given the extraordinary treaty, and only in this context can we remove part of our refusal, while remaining sceptical, and asking for it to be rational and, above all, fully transparent. However, we will continue to voice that health problems should be tackled through key state interventions. The state must carry out with each instrument an expansive fiscal policy to ensure the proper functioning of the ESS: recruitment of doctors and nurses, supplies of material, tests, reagents, reagents, IF equipment. It is not the time, ladies and gentlemen, to show how obedient we are in Brussels, but to stand up to the circumstances and to act for the benefit of the Greeks we represent in Parliament. We heard from the Step of the House the Prime Minister earlier making several reports of strengthening the ESS. We expect to see how this is going to be done in practice. In Article 12 we have the provision for the award of services by the EGE for the examination of samples to private providers. Let's remind you that so far private individuals have just been able to collect the samples and transfer them to PASTER or to the Medical School in the U.S.S.H.A. And the prices they charge for sampling are great, so we call on the state to intervene directly in this regard. Article 16: Extraordinary procedure for enterprises and employers who have exhausted the maximum permitted overtime limits for workers. It is absolutely positive in the context of the health measures that have been adopted. Nevertheless, it is necessary to strengthen the wages of these workers, but also to subject them for the duration of the extraordinary treaty that we are experiencing in the situation of heavy and unhealthy. Although the provisions of Article 19 are legitimate, we must not overlook a very important point, that the majority of the unemployed remain outside of any aid and that of teletraining will not solve their problems. The state must make, under the present circumstances, brave decisions. For example, fellow citizens who work undeclaredly can, by making a responsible statement to the Ministry of Labour, receive the allowance of eight hundred euros as well. Under no circumstances do we want to reward black work, but at this stage should the survival of our fellow citizens be our absolute priority. That is why similar movements must also be made to the low-pension, unemployed who have no income, our fellow people who live with the former JRC, the minimum guaranteed income allowance, or the unemployment benefit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled today an amendment which I understood will not be accepted, concerning the suspension of the HERAKLIS project and the indefinite protection of the first home. The government must - and we have heard no provision about this - protect borrowers, the banking system itself and the public fund, as if the project 'HRAKLIS' is allowed to continue, the guarantees will be passed on, since the financial crisis due to the pandemic will have made the securitisations of the red loans, even the combinations, extremely precarious requirements. If the HARAKLIS project does not freeze directly, New Democracy is consciously harming the public fund with EUR 12 billion, i.e. the amount of guarantees serving only the predators at the expense of society, in particular through emergency health and social and economic crisis. Especially now that the ESS and social welfare require brave funding from the state to overcome this crisis, the government should accept our amendment and not choose to donate EUR 12 billion in funds. In short, I will say a word about the four ministerial amendments. We think that the extension of a deadline for securities should be a positive measure and perhaps the duration should be longer than three days. ‘Points of operation of popular markets and recording for monitoring stocks of ovine and caprine meat and eggs’. Recording is necessary, especially with all problems and with the cessation of exports, but initiatives should be taken to support the primary sector especially during this period. Our proposal is that the state of emergency should become a buyer so that, on the one hand, producers, farmers and farmers do not find themselves in a situation that is weaker than the producers, farmers and farmers with tons of insufferable products, and on the other hand, there are no fellow citizens who are in a weaker state and who lack the basics, as the state can make available to these products which it will buy as a purchaser of a high quality, so, in fact, we will have support for the weaker groups of the population, especially with a recession that seems to be riding and following the era after the pandemic. The increase in the appropriations for the general government expenditure by EUR 5 billion is, in fact, a pretext for the measures that we are discussing and perhaps some of those that we are discussing later. Like Mera25 we're placed. We think the support measures are lukewarm. Much more should have been received. We believe that there is a need for a positive budgetary shock to the Greek Government so that the deep economic downturn is less pronounced. Unfortunately, communication continues and without draft legislation. In conclusion, as Mera25 from the first moment we supported health measures, we highlighted the inadequacy of economic support measures and tabled our own proposals. In the light of this, we shall vote in favour of this draft law in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief. Moreover, most of them were also said during the procedure followed a few days ago in committee, with regard to the ratification of these MDGs, and various things were heard this morning. I should like to summarise what has been done so far in the field of health. Once again, let me say that the Coronovirus crisis has found the Ministry of Health fully prepared and there is a plan which, depending on the evolution and stages of the disease in the country, is developing. We have made it clear from the outset that it is not a question of money. Any material needed, any equipment needed in the National Health System, no matter how much it may be necessary, will be done in order to tackle this problem successfully, but also to create a reserve for the future of the National Health System. Recruitment also goes on. Indeed, since it had stopped following the elections of nine hundred four seats - I said this and this morning in response to a timely question - it has already been completed and concerns ninety-three more seats. We have also made subsidized recruitment. And, of course, once again to say that the approvals we have given have gone far beyond the original programming of the two thousand people. They've already exceeded four thousand two hundred approvals. And we have said that because the health system needs permanent solutions, of course the nursing staff will stay in the health system after and we will be able gradually to convert them into a curator’s second place, so that we can meet standing and constant needs in the health system. The health system during the coronary period must serve all citizens and those who have not been ill, and that is what it does. All structures work at both primary and tertiary level and all health professionals are either in the private sector or are in the public sector providing the health services each citizen needs to have. We serve all the patients. Health centers operate normally. There is a plan for primary health care, which will come to help if there is a lot of workload in hospitals. There are doctors at primary health level who are serving the world right now. Health centers are open. And, of course, if necessary, we will move medical staff and other staff towards hospitals, if conditions force it. Some things have been heard about the grant of the National Health Services Agency of EUR 30 million. It does not cover the amount to be paid to private intensive units. It is financing the EEAS in order to meet needs and these needs are up to the amount of EUR 30 million. Let me say one more time about intensive care units. These will be paid if they are used, because we have, in addition to the eighty beds that we had in addition to the health system when the seasonal flu began, and we have managed and ensured at the beginning of the influenza fifty-five intensive treatment, so that we can deal with incidents, if necessary, which do not have a coronary, so that the public intensive care units can deal with cases in our fellow citizens with a coronary. In a very short time we have managed and opened seventy-five new intensive care units in the public health system. There are currently more than three thousand hundred beds bound to deal with mild and moderate episodes with mild and moderate symptoms. In fact, I referred this morning to a number of nurses. Let me correct this figure because it concerns our hospitals and fellow citizens who have been examined for suspected incidents and those in intensive care units. So, at the moment the health system is on its way to cope with an adverse phase of development of the coronary. As things get worse, not only the rest of the public sector, but also the private sector will be dictated. This is foreseen in legislation and all doctors, all doctors and individuals, who are currently outside the public health system, will be called upon to fight together. Finally, I would like to say this: once again, I would like to point out that the test is carried out to those of our fellow citizens who meet the criteria for doing so. So far, no fellow citizen has paid us for this test in the public health system and he's not going to pay. And, indeed, we are increasing the production capacity of the national health system by fighting against the coronary, the National Center for Blood, where we will be able to carry out molecular testing of samples, so that we can carry out more tests. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u300	Thank you too, Minister, for keeping time. We are now entering the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Members of Parliament have spoken, the time is three minutes, except for Mr Gregoriadis, who will be six minutes because the President has not spoken. This does not mean, of course, that the working hours are to be observed. Of course there will be a tolerance. Mr. Gregoryade, please come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Stakoura, since you are here, I take the opportunity to begin by addressing you. I am thirty-six years an actress and I happen to know firsthand how all Greek actors are being impoverished from the weather even before the memorials begin. It is a situation that has become unpaid during the memorials. Greek actors have ceased to be almost completely rewarded. And now, after the end of the memorial tombs and the blow of the terrible coronary, the vast majority of my fellow actors are on board now. I get and I'm constantly receiving dozens, hundreds of phone calls from my fellow Members, who tell me very much that they don't see the system, they're invisible, as they work in conditions that didn't have a badge, as they were working secretly or black. You know all this. They have been passionate about the Greek economy for years. They're not just the actors. Generally, you know, the show site is suffering. It's invisible the way he suffers. They don't photograph their working rights, precisely because most of them work illegally. I really beg you, Minister, to find a way to build a channel of communication between you or the people who work with the Association of Greek Actors, with the Greek Actors Solidarity Fund, as well as the musicians and dancers. These people are literally wood-based hangers. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my real speech now, as our country is now closing down on the fifth week of battle with the coronary, the effective so far - I must say - to limit the disease of government measures are, unfortunately, slowly being accompanied by the appearance of undemocratic and undemocratic practices, such as the systematic use of broad-angle lenses and telefax by many media, so that we can be transferred one - let me say - completely magical picture. This is a magical picture that the Minister for Citizen Protection has just taken on board yesterday, which I imagine is also your government, saying - I read, I always do this - 'TV' - said Mr Chrysochoidis the other day - '...greatered minimal minorities on the beaches and blooms' - from here begins the interest' - 'Well did TV, because discipline must be absolute'. This statement reminds us of other times. Also, undemocratic is the practice of indicting a portion of the Greek population, in this particular case I mean our naughty over-ages, who do not have a mind and who have the courage to conspire outside the banks in order to do - what else? - to collect their pensions, so that they can only continue with them to survive, to live without, of course, the people responsible, who have been well aware of the picture of all the banks in these days of pension payments, to take no substantial measures as they had to, but on the contrary, only after the coup d'état has taken place, they have decided to conquer through our well-known Mr. Hardalia, our grandparents and grandparents. They are anti-democratic practices, of course, which remind us of other well-known anti-democratic practices, such as that of today's Minister of Development, Adoni Georgiadis, who - remember - as the Minister of Health at that time of the Samara government threatened - and at the same time pleaded to the channels that 'if we need redundancies from doctors, it is very much for all journalists not to write that he has forced him to make a troika or that no Tomsen to make such redundancies and that, in fact, he would deprive him of the honor...' - his words - '... that he himself has decided, because that is what is self-evident, that is what is right'. Was it so right, dear Mr Georgiadis, in November 2013 and while our national health system had been indicted by doctors and nurses after four and a half years of implementing two different governmental memoranda, should the Minister of Health then discuss the redundancies of doctors further and, indeed, call them "self-sufficient" and "righteous"? Now - look at what strange things are, in one of the well-known pranks that history often plays in politicians - Mr. Georgiadis belongs to the three condescending Ministers who plead for the unemployed doctors and nurses to join in their efforts to prevent what is not happening and, in fact, free of charge, because what other than "Come to help." Possibly die. However, I warn you that I am not in any way prepared to take any measure to prevent this and, finally, if you manage yourself and survive, no time after the pandemic has ended, I will move your handkerchief again and send you home again." I would remind you of this in order not to mention the well-known justification for the pathogenesity of the health sector in Greece over the last few decades, because even though in the last few decades health in our country has been declining, we must not forget that those who have accepted it have a name. And when this same name is found in the present government - and indeed in the 'key' role - then this government automatically ceases to be able to claim that they are ruthless throughout all this dignity, because he is, on the contrary, the creator of all this anomaly, along with all the governments that have implemented Memorandums. Merra25 has already submitted a very specific proposal for several days for immediate recruitment of seven thousand doctors and nurses in the ERC at a cost of EUR 220 million, a direct supply of medical equipment at a cost of EUR 100 million and a structural health infrastructure around the country at a cost of EUR 200 million. The whole thing is 520 million euros. "Stavon in the ocean" one would say it in the cocoon of 12.5 billion euros, Mr. Stakoura, from the quantitative relaxation, plus the 37 billion euros from the "cushion" already guaranteed by the SYRIZA government. So it's a drop in the ocean, this half a billion euros. Why don't you finally make one fifty out of your pillows in our health? Why? Because even in conditions of pandemic, your Government is not dismantling its main concern, namely that public health must at all costs be denounced and converted into a private privilege, so that it eventually becomes a privileged field of profit for your small-scale agents, doing just as it did, and when it donated the 12 million euros to other well-known oliggers, channel owners and publishing bands, two of whom - so that we do not forget the names in which, as you know, I am incapable - Mr. Vaggelis Marinakis and Mr. Socrates Alafouzos, who, even - even though it is well known how prosperous people are, did not even have the cigarette to deny under such circumstances of crisis this gift. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the other hand - I shall end immediately, Mr President, two minutes - there is always the Mera25 - I say this to hear it from the Greek people - our movement which expresses the Greeks who are not subject to it, are not delivered and are not pleading. In their name, therefore, we tabled an amendment to the House today to suspend the HERAKLIS project and the indefinite protection of the first home. The government must protect our borrowers, our banking system and the public fund, of course, as if we are allowed to continue the plan 'HERAKLIS', the bills - and you know that, Mr Staikora - the guarantees will be withdrawn and the bill will automatically come to us in exactly 12 billion euros. Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, if your Government does not immediately freeze the plan 'HARAKLIS', as it has the ability to do simply by voting for the amendment we have just tabled, it will seriously damage the public fund and our homeland with 12 billion euros in the near future, serving only the predators to the detriment of our own society and, indeed, in the midst of this sweeping health and socio-economic crisis. Mr Mitsotakis, in fact, you are still refusing to give EUR 520 million and thus only solve the main problems of our national health system, but are you really choosing to donate EUR 12 billion to these predators? You will have to answer us, because if you answer 'yes', you will have to automatically connect into the hearts and minds of all the Greeks with our wonderful fellow Albanians, if I have understood well - who resides in Grevena. She received the call from the Grevenes Hospital that ordered her to sew six hundred masks with her hands and asked her for a price per piece, proudly replied that she did not want money for such a project and that what she would need for the purchase of raw materials she would put it herself from her poor pocket, even though a fashioner. On the other hand, Prime Minister, although Prime Minister, you are scandalously denying three weeks to put your hand in the pocket and give not yours, but ours, from public money, what you are now stumbled at us that, thanks to your memorials, there are things in our pigeon, and it is absolutely essential at this time, I assure you, for the armoring of the ESS and our battle with pandemic. Prime Minister, if you do not give this money to the HR right now, we will have to deliver you right now to the comparison with Mrs Elona Agoli from the Grevena, as well as to the judgement of your voters, but also to history. Thank you very much and apologise for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u302	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Euklidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. In this enormous crisis, which makes us unreservedly unreserved and all about what is happening in Greece, Spain and Italy, we have some suspensions. We have the suspension of the Stability Pact or the suspension of certain financial obligations. We have the suspension of any normality. There are two questions about whether democracy and democratic processes need to be suspended and whether ideological confrontation needs to be suspended. For democracy, most people here would agree that there is no reason and that democracy, dialogue, confrontation can make us all richer, us as well as the government. So we will all denounce what is happening in Hungary and get them at the same time as a warning that we must be vague in this regard that democracy is not suspended. The second issue is ideological, i.e. whether we need to suspend ideological confrontation. Mr Mitsotakis said today that the only ideology is to save people and we are all equal in the face of the threat. I couldn't think of a more ideological intervention than that. Really, are we all equal in front of the threat? Is there equality for the refugees, for the unemployed, for the poor and the rich? Are you serious? Are we all equal? Is the workers and workers in health care in the labour market, who are majority women and immigrant - globally speaking - and are they women and are they low-paid? Is that the same thing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ideology is not an extra, it is not something that is only done in periods of normality, because it is the filter through which they see reality. When you do different things, you see the world in a certain way, with a certain ideology. The question is whether we can, at least, see this and seriously discuss these ideological differences and whether there can be convergence on some points. When, Mr Stakoura, we criticise you that you do not take enough measures or do not take them as far as possible, or that you do so gradually, it is not that we are populists and we want more measures. We have an ideological analysis of the economy, of the theory of the economy, which says that this strategy is at great risk. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He has the great risk when the clean health track is finished, that there will not be rapid growth, because there will be a lot of people who will have debt reserves and instead of being able to spend, he will have to repay these debts. This is the way we see reality, what happens in great revolts, such as '29, as in 2008-2009, as now. And I urge you when you criticise us, at least involve yourself with our arguments, that, as many economists say, we should take more measures and faster, just to avoid a crisis that lasts for too long. These measures are needed. That's the controversy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And after all, Mr Stakoura, tell us whether our criticism is correct about the fact that the EUR 530 is not enough for the workers. They're not enough to live well now, but most importantly, they won't be enough to spend when we get out of this crisis. If we have or are we not right that whatever goes back to taxes and social security contributions will be found in front of them, will business still have a problem? So, if that is your opinion, we invite you to have at least one repayment plan, so that businesses and individuals can plan and get out of the crisis what they can spend, what they can invest and what they cannot. And I come to the last thing about the labour market and it goes beyond me. Not only do we have a suspension of our ideological controversy here, but we also have a strengthening of this. Where you tell us to get the same workers, you are not telling us whether the workers will be themselves, you are not telling us whether they will be the same working relationships. And when you do not make all this clear, it is the suspicion that once again the crisis is an opportunity for further flexibility in the labour market, an opportunity to continue the low wages in the crisis, and our ideological theoretical analysis is that this is what brought us to the crisis. Because the 2008 crisis was precisely due to inequality, precisely because the workers did not have purchasing power, thereby borrowing and creating this crisis. Therefore, we should not make aggressive controversy, but be involved with the arguments, because it is not just that we want more money, but that we have a particular view that in some parts of it you might agree on in others too. But you have to say where you disagree with this economic logic. And then ideological discussions can also be productive. In some places you might convince us, in others not to convince us, but to go ahead. In our view - and with this I shall end, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - we insist that in total you have not taken the size of the measures needed in time, which we will pay in the future. It is not too late, but you cannot count on what the Eurogroup has always been based on and it is in your ideology: we do something now and if necessary, we are here to do more. Why? Because this does not change the expectations of economic operators, whether they are workers or business. It creates them huge insecurity not only in the labour market, but also in the real economy, in tourism, and in the agricultural sector. It makes them insecure! And since you know very well - since you are also a good economist - that expectations are very important in the economy, this insecurity will result in the crisis lasting much longer. "The little too late", but it is not too late to reverse this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u304	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a lot of talk today. So let me begin without, of course, having no interest in learning about what charity is. However, charity, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, is not charity when it is advertised. We've been a little confused here. It is not charity when we advertise that we are supposedly magnificent and that we are giving the motto to show the world how voluntarily we are, while others are not. Listen a little. It is immoral - something the Greek Solution has said since the first time - to build communication on the pandemic, from whatever side this building comes. They're doing things. Greece needs acts. It's time for actions. It's time to stand by the Greeks. And we as a party, as he has now come out, do, without drumbusiness, without press releases, without dragging or forcing anyone to run behind the developments, as he attempted to do with his supposed volunteerism four days ago and a whole kitten was set up around it. And can I tell you something? So if you want all of these people to help, starting with the MPs - which I repeat what the Greek Members of Parliament have done - to keep it for us, so that we can sleep well at night - start, Minister, and cut wages, slow wages by the presidents, the directors, the members of the boards appointed to state bodies that are taking full succumbing wages, by the judges, from all the 'blue children', who are appointed from July to today with the so-called 'final state' and loaded them on the back of the Greeks, those Greeks who are now trying to make fun of the voluntary deposit of the parliamentary compensation. Because it's about a bubble. And hurry up to the rest of the issues. So let's go to the communication games with the supposedly stateless Greeks. Why are the Greeks inexperienced? They're inside their house. 80%, 90% of Greeks are inside their homes. And you know why they stay and stay inside our houses? In order not to lose human lives from the evil that Greece and the health of Greece have. Because that is the purpose of achieving the pandemic in order not to get the system to restrain, a system which should be able to respond, for example, in Germany where there are twenty-eight thousand ICUs and here we have three or eight hundred fifty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And we're going on. Why now share the money that you say in advance 'give out two grand and save the system' when you share millions of euros right and left? You've reached the target. All Greeks are inside the houses. All day they see Papadopoulos in the stupid box threatening us not to leave the house. And Spyros does well. You've reached the target. So you should also apply to the channels, your friends, to whom you have access, to play free advertising. This is where the PPPs fall. So make a PPA, a ministerial decision that you are obliged to play free social messages for the coronary, for the pandemic and give the 11 million euros to the Castoria Hospital, which has no single gauze and a mask for the people and the other hospitals in the country. Why don't you do that? That's why I'm saying it's all pre-standard. But don't you want to ruin the candy of your own people, allies, friends, canals, because where are we going to go tomorrow, tomorrow to say what we want, whenever we want for as long as we want? On our channels! So take that money, too, and we'll be fine. And now we're going to another topic, because again, with the channels, they all have a connection. What's up, guys? We have a huge issue, the coronary issue. We're all being informed every day, twenty-four hours a day. Aren't there any other issues? We're going out of our homes sometime and we're going to see another Greece! We have not been informed of any of the channels for the thousands of two hundred eighty arrivals of illegal immigrants within March. One channel didn't say we had a thousand two hundred eighty arrivals in March! Where is the proud Mr. Metarakis, whose measures are being taken, to tell us whether we had or did not have a thousand and eighty arrivals of illegal immigrants? And the bombs start digging one by one. Twenty sample checks were carried out on hot spots in Richona and the twenty were positive to the virus. I'm shaking the idea of starting Moria's tests at twenty-three thousand, twenty-four thousand, twenty-eight thousand stacked in there. And these bombs you have the fabulous idea, with Mitarkis and the rest of the New Democracy, to transfer them to the mainland now that the Greeks are locked in his house. Because that's what you're doing. You're taking advantage of the situations and the quietness outside. They're slapping at the ATMs, the markets and the streets of Greece by slenders, and we're in the house. And we beat old gals who don't show the card to a city officer. That's what we're doing, unfortunately. So what's going to happen? So we tell you, keep them away from the mainland, keep them away from the urban centers and take them all together, as they are now, to the uninhabited islands. It's gonna blow up a sanitary bomb. There won't be any I.T. left that won't be inside of them. Understood. Things are marginal. I'm going to something else to close. Mr. Georgiadis isn't here. Mr. Stavros represents the government. As Mr Georgiadis has already advertised, in a very strong way, in social media the payment of 50% of his salary for the pandemic, in the same way showed that he would move the finger on the collector companies and that the collector companies would not call in the middle of a pandemic terrified Greek citizens. Nothing happened. Today, then, there are over a hundred complaints about collection companies that are operating normally and exerting pressure on citizens in the past few days. The President of the borrowers, Mr Vangelis Critikos, revealed this with his statements today. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] More than a hundred complaints about collecting companies, but also about PPC, Minister. These crows, collectors don't respect anything. Not even the pain of the Greeks now that's locked in the house. This carcinoma called collecting companies, these crows sucking the blood of the Greek people, neither now do they respect. Put them in place. Please very much. I'm closing with two comments, Minister. The Ministry is being cut, the State Secretary for Rural Development said, about the Greekizations of agricultural products. It's fine and it's cut, but it's pre-formative and hypocritical, you know. These people cannot be cut off for the Greekizations of products, when we have sold our feta and oil - and we know that very well - when we have "send" our Macedonia and when we have Islamized our islands. I'm closing up with something, Mr. President, that I'm sure you'll be interested in, because I know that you too are a deeply religious person. Thank you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] A message from the Greek Solution ahead of the holy days coming. Close the churches, but let the churches function with closed doors. We should put loudspeakers in our churches. All of us sing with a candle and a lamp: "My sweet ar" or "Christ Anestes". Be the message of Orthodoxy, which must reach every corner of Greece. To cover this message and this psalm at these difficult times every unreserved cry of every imam who cries every afternoon, Mr President, illegally in the illegal mosques of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Andreas Loverdes, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. As long as we are working, we especially understand today how important it was that the House should not close down. And how important it is that the vast majority of Greeks and more of Greek politicians base their political positions and, more generally, its attitude on the logic of science and in no way on the various nonsense, conspiracy or otherwise. The example of those working in the health system, doctors, nurses, workers in the EAW, administrative staff associated with the provision of health services, must be an example at this time for the entire public administration. The self-renunciation shown by these people must be a slogan for all and all who work in the public sector. To dominate, Minister, we, with George Papaconstantinou, made arrangements when they beat us to the Ministry of Labour and predicted that the nurses should be subject to unhealthy professions. This provision, which was applied to the private sector, has not been implemented by any of your predecessors, and you, in the short time you are, as well as Euklidis Tsakalotos, have applied to nurses in the public sector in the sense of the ESS. The public sector in the sense of a ministerial decision by Mr Venizelos and myself and those working in military hospitals. Since the time of the crisis, on the basis of this decision that I invoke, we have been integrated into the country's health service system. Our support for the Greek state, the government and the counterpopulation must be seen in this way. Opposition suggests. I want you to tell us sometime why you are not accepting the inclusion of these in unhealthy professions. I stress it, I stress it. We still have an amendment here. Not demagogic for all those who are inside the system, but for those who are on the front line of battle. Doctors, nursing workers in the EAW, administrative staff working in services relating to the provision of health services, and military hospitals, I repeat. We shall insist on this amendment and insist every time we discuss it here in the House. I would ask you very much to inform your other colleagues that the suspension of some public administration activities does not mean that the internal processes of the ministries must be stopped. I would like to make a reference because we promised to resolve this issue in March by the Minister of Justice that the issue of parental conscientiousness in relation to their children should not cease to be concerned now because there are other more important issues. The reason for this is that a special appearance of theirs is that, at present, with these restrictive measures, fathers, Minister, because of a misfunction of the courts, cannot see their children. Please convey this message to the Minister of Justice. We were promised that in March we would have a decision. We are still learning that the committee responsible has not been set up. The internal functioning of the administration must go hand in hand with teleconferencing at ministerial level, as well as at official level. I want to make a point, not for rhetoric reasons. You had made a very good decision on the possibility of those serving their loans up to February, if they have economic problems caused by the political choices made by the Greek state, not to fulfil their obligations. For three months, I repeat. However, I denounce in advance a specific intervention by an ‘INTRUM’ official. The man who denounced it to me served his loans for thirteen years for principal residence until March. He was called in a disgusting way to continue fulfilling his obligations. A month he didn't pay, in March. His loan went through automatically and his employee "INTRUM" appeared in the most discomfit way and demanded quick payment. I was informed by Mr Georgiadis this morning that there was your intervention on this matter. He asked me to say to Parliament - and I say this - that any borrower who has such conduct against him to say rhetorically what I said, that for three months the Greek state gave him this right and to close the phone. But there must be an intervention in the collecting companies, because it is an insult to the consistent borrowers, who before the health crisis were absolutely consistent, to suffer humiliations and insults at that level. Also, there was an inconvenience over the cheques. Since an ALPHA was in need of interpretation, an ALPHA employee informed me that it could not pay on the other hand some other employees, because the PPP had not yet been published, to pay the check in dt time. Opposite behaviors on the same day, yesterday and the day before yesterday. The solutions must be given. He's inside, he's inside. There has been a specific reference, but we must make the directions very clear to everyone. The Minister for Health is not here and what I will say is about your region, Mr President, and I have informed you. There are a lot of health units that have problems. I am referring to a regional office in your constituency, in Vrisa Lesvos, where Dr Katerina Pitsidimos has denounced me unacceptably daily working conditions. The Ministry of Health should personalise its actions, and wherever necessary, but it is not clear what this need is and what its extent is: the Ministry of Health, regions of health, hospitals, medical centres, a regional hospital, here, where Coronovirus cases in his staff were and a building to work does not have, as a container works because of earthquakes, an unacceptable situation. Let's think a little of the people who work there. And I'm closing down, Minister, on a matter of yours. I had a relevant debate on tourism with the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, with whom we can and we exchange views on a very serious basis, and he assured me that 20% - this image I had - 2019 was the Gross Domestic Product in terms of the tourism product. With the crisis, as it has erupted - I am not demagogling, asking you a rhetorical question, but it is a point of 1/5 of the Gross Domestic Product - it leads me to ask you about the measures you are taking at the moment and welcome them. Mr. Pulas was particularly generous in both committee and here today. The Prime Minister was not against us, he was not at all. He referred to our own positive actions, and I felt insulted, because we, dear Andrew, do not smoke in good criticism, but we do not have a corresponding function to our side of the government. I ask you here: Is there a plan? There is. Why, after two months of going out, as we all hope and strive, from this scourge, Minister, to the tourism that is again created of one/5 of the annual Gross Domestic Product? We are talking here not only about tourism and the workers there, but about what it offers to the insurance funds, the public fund, the country's final potential to meet its programme obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u308	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u309	I close with this phrase and this question. I'm not a demagogue, I'm not talking about fragmentary interventions where you have measures. I understand and can understand as an experienced politician how difficult it is to have a comprehensive plan for everything. I understand! But when it comes to our heavy industry, as far as our economy is concerned, which is tourism, more than the measures of April or May are concerned. You need to tell us how you think about it. I note that the Minister for Tourism is about salty at this time and I have nothing against the man, in any case, but I expect you to have a word more than a concrete measure of March or April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u310	The speeches of the Parliamentary Representatives with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Spellio Lebanese, are completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and our open and active national Parliament has again given a strong democratic message. It confirmed the right decision of the Bureau of Parliament to continue its work and, of course, strongly underlined the difference in practices such as the one in Hungary, as the Prime Minister and Mr Tsakalotos said, which obviously do not fit in the historical deposit of our parliamentary democracy. Today, we heard the Prime Minister make an account of the first thirty days. I think we all agree that we're doing pretty good. We have hopeful results from the policy pursued, but we are only at the end of the beginning. We are doing well, because we have been practically based on four axes: the first was the tough, time-consuming and effective measures, the second was the concrete and well-informed plan for both strengthening the health system, limiting the spread of the virus, communication and information society that is very important, and support for citizens and entrepreneurship with a view to regenerating our national economy. That is why the ministers spoke in detail, Mr Stagioras will talk again, so I will not have your time. Thirdly, the patience and responsibility of the citizens, the overwhelming majority. Of course, there are always the few who think that the reaction, disobedience, graphicity are cheeky. It's not cheeky, it's nonsense, and if he needs to take the state and other measures, he'll do it. Fourthly, the unity of our political system. As we have seen today and confirmed all the leaders of the parties who have spoken, have stood up to the circumstances, there are few and unequivocal exceptions that are not worth mentioning. Of course, there has been criticism, and that is why Parliament must remain open. I should like to respond briefly to some of these criticisms. Mr Tsakalotos, I said it before, I think out of the climate, was aggressive to both the government and the always moderate Mr Stagiora, and with great anxiety he tried to cover the past, to cover his economic policy again. We have time for this. Today we all have to deal with a common purpose, as reflected by the other speakers: addressing the problem we have. He also accused us that the government is putting a little money on the market. The answer is simple, that those who seek endless benefits unobtrusively bid and send Greece closer to the Memorandums. He also mentioned the Prime Minister's word that he allegedly said that ideological differences had been levelled. That's not what the Prime Minister did, that's not what the government does, not all of us in here. We're just talking about the primary need to save human life, to save citizens. I sincerely regret that his idealism - I hope it does not overwhelm the whole of SYRIZA - is turning it away from reality. The rapporteur of the Officerial Representation, like the Chief of the Greek Solution, accused the Government of commissions. And that is what I think is out of place and time, but I would like to give some brief answers. Firstly, about the 11 million advertising, which has been a great deal of talk. It's all open, the contracts are open, you can go check them out and for whatever you find you can well go to the prosecutor. Let's not throw water into the mill of populism. With regard to the part of the end of the 21 million that you said was happy, I should like to say that this has not been taken care of, it will simply be paid over the next years in full by the companies that took the licences with your own, indeed, competition. From there on, all the direct assignments are made for the speed of the matter and, as I said before, they are open to politics, but also to anyone else - prosecutor or anyone - it needs to be looked at. You have asked us that we have made a few health posts. You proposed again the four thousand. However, we have already approved four thousand two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. They've already been on duty in these regular procedures two thousand. Businesses are not tested by the government's policy, as you said. They are tested by the crisis itself and I would invite you not to mock yourself, because you cannot convince anyone that you have greater sensitivity to the middle class and the middle Greek business. The 3.5% of GDP, that is, the money currently paid by the Greek Government to the Greek economy, is much higher than the European average. Do not confuse again - the Prime Minister and Mr Stavuras and Mr Georgiadis told you indirectly - the announcements with the budget. You're making a mistake. He'll tell you again, I imagine, with numbers, but he listed you exactly all the choices of the government. I would like to say in this context that this is not right. I think you should stand on the line your Chief had today in this House, because both the people and the investigations show that there is a common nightmare. This nightmare is what the world all says: "Fortunately that this Prime Minister is ruling, thank God we have in the eyes of this government and think about turning back and being SYRIZA upstairs." Let me move on with some positive thoughts about the effects of the crisis: the first is that there is a violent, buffalo, but rapid reform of the state's electronic reorganisation. The second is that a new civil culture - state, as well as cooperation between the two - develops. Thirdly, we have a total reintroduction of policy towards the stock exchange and investment funds and companies economy. So we have a great opportunity for politicians to reform capitalism and highlight their social face. We need to get away from the hard monetarist policies and logically and see together the next day the management of this new European debt to be created. And that brings me to the end of my speech, where I want to say two words about the banks and to agree to Mr Loverdos in full. They have to take initiatives too. I am speaking here as a representative of the citizens of Atolokarnania, as a Member of Parliament, and not as part of either the government or the parliamentary group, in the sense that I do not represent what I am going to say to our parliamentary group. I therefore believe that the banks should also bear the burden on them, and I would like to propose five simple things: First, to reduce the commission for interbank payments by e-banking. It is now a chance to do it and not let it go any further. Secondly, it is also necessary to reduce the fee for the bank’s machinery to take over through the DIA system. This will make it easier for many of our citizens not to make many kilometres so that they can get money and also reduce the cost for all those who cannot currently obtain credit cards. Thirdly, reducing the fee for all electronic transactions. Fourthly, the use of this famous information network that banks have and that is used by the collecting companies to inform us and'multiple' us when we owe as citizens and consumers some loans. So inform the elderly, through them, of the possibilities available and the repayment of their obligations without a physical presence, but also of informing all customers about the new electronic programmes. Fifth and last, in fact, a suspension or even partial suspension of private housing and consumer loans. With these personal thoughts, I think we've all come a long way. We will continue to walk together, the political system united, to cope successfully with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u312	Thank you. Minister, would you like to close in view of the lack of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u313	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. I would particularly like to thank all my colleagues in all the wings for their positions. I listened carefully to some thoughts, some opinions and some objections. We will continue to be placed and placed, as I always do, with mildness, modesty and coolness in these difficult hours, away from suffocation, populism, and of course elitism. We will make mistakes, omissions will exist, as Mr Loverd has said, because the crisis is unprecedented. But we are standing here so that we can best deal with this unprecedented health crisis and have the least possible economic and social consequences. But I always come with arguments and ask specific questions. Checks: Mr. Loverdos is right. We took the initiative, but it seemed that this initiative is not enough. They went to the banks and didn't serve. Yesterday we had contradictory messages from the banks. He said, "We want a provision that obliges us" and he said, "It is wrong for us what you have done." So we come today, and we oblige the banking system to go in the direction that we have legislated, giving six days, plus three days, for the cheques. So, yes, we have taken note of what you said. Tourism: It is a big issue and it is a great contribution to the economy. Now is the time for sectoral policies. In my position I spoke about tourism, I spoke about energy, I spoke about transport, I spoke about the primary sector. We need to make additional sectoral policies that meet even more the needs of these sectors because, to focus on tourism, yes, tourism is within the framework of the aid that the Greek state has created, it is included. Yes, tourism and business will be included in what will reasonably start tomorrow morning and is called a'refundable advance', i.e. companies from one to five hundred people will be able to obtain liquidity from the Greek state in April, not from the banking system, directly from the Greek state, but other policies are needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u314	Transfer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u315	The businessman will enter, there will be a platform in the AIA and essentially via ‘TAXIS’ there will be funding after the operation. We'll look at the tick...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u316	Is that loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u317	No, no. It's going to be a returning deposit. A sum will be paid, there will be a grace period after and after a few years, the company will return at a very small interest rate, we will see how much it will be, the funding it has received.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u318	In the state?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u319	Yes, in the state. The banking system won't interfere. The banking system will interfere with other policies that Mr Pappas spoke about earlier. There was a reference to the protection of first residence. What we need to do, we will do it at the right time and will be the right policies. We have demonstrated these eight - nine months that we are in governance that we know when to legislate responsibly and sensitively. So at the right time there will be answers on this matter. Mr Gregoriadis - left, I don't know if he'll be back - spoke a little bit about the area of culture, the actors. I want to tell you that all the codes that cover this space are within: 5911, film production activities, videos, television programs, accompanyings, distribution, screening of films, spectacular arts, support activities for spectacular arts, artistic creation. Everyone's inside. But he said something. He said there are many "invisible". The "invisible" cannot be found. The "invisible" how can the Greek state find them to help them? That's what helps them. Also, as far as the area of culture was concerned, yesterday we decided that the Ministry of Finance would give 10 million more to the Ministry of Culture for actions during the summer season. You said as a criticism that the Greek state should have come on time, come the ministries and tell the citizens about their transactions with the banks. I said in my protology that we failed. But it is not our responsibility alone, it is the responsibility of the Greek citizen. Because when we make a press release and say it repeatedly that those of our fellow citizens who are over 70 years of age, a hundred thousand citizens, or an 80% and more disability rate, and allow them the possibility that all the tax obligations will not be for 31-3-2020, but go until 10 April, an extension of virtually another 10 days, I think that the Greek state did what it could do in time, the AIA did what it could do in order to deal with the problem. As far as the banks are concerned, I agree with Mr Loverdos. Any complaints that exist I would like the two co-operating ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development and Investment to be informed. You should be aware that there is a communication from the Hellenic Banking Union since 19 March 2020, which reads as follows. I repeat it, so that there can also be in the Minutes of the House and the Greek citizens can invoke it: "The Greek banks, members of the Greek Banking Association, continue to cooperate with the Government and the supervisory authorities and take further measures to support the Greek economy. As a result, following close cooperation and a meeting with the relevant finance ministers, Mr Georgiadis said: "They have decided to support, in addition to the companies and natural persons who have proved to be affected by the crisis, by offering them the facilities to pay the instalments of their information loans. Priority will be given to natural persons (workers, professionals and individual enterprises) directly affected by the suspension of operation of the undertakings concerned, the first category - 'in the context of the measures already taken by the Government and will receive EUR 800'. So the second count, too. All companies affected, that is, 90% of the companies actually affected. ‘For this particular category of banks directly affected, after contacting the borrower, will proceed to suspension of instalments for three months’. It also complements in the end that "banks are adapting their way of communicating with debtors - borrowers in today's prevailing and fragile conditions. However, those citizens, natural persons and businesses who are not affected by the crisis should normally continue to serve their credit obligations." So it's clear what we decided. Where the agreement is not complied with, I should also like to know immediately. Two more comments. I have listened very carefully to the heads of political parties, the rapporteurs, the parliamentary representatives and I have heard some criticism of the adequacy of the package of measures which the Greek Government has started to unfold. However, I have not heard how much the package of measures proposed by the opposition is costing. From no one! In order to have a serious chat, we, who give 6.8 billion and are fewer measures or not enough, should know how much that is proposed by the Qualified Opposition or any other opposition party. I didn't hear a number. I have heard political leaders, parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs, a sum I have not heard. A sum! To tell us that these are 9 billion, 10 billion, 11 billion, to have a debate. Because then we should also get into the logic of cash resources. Because there are no unlimited resources. I also heard that it is not enough. I have tabled to the Minutes and I repeat that the official figures of the European Commission say that budgetary measures at European level are at 2% of GDP. The budgetary measures in our country are 3.5% of GDP. Everything else has to do with liquidity through other support mechanisms - Mr Georgiadis spoke about them - and through European funds. I heard there's no complete plan. If you notice, our plan is so comprehensive that it has different circles of assistance to different groups of the population. For example, you will see that there is a box 1, box 2, box 3. Everyone has the potential help of 800 euros. Others, however, are granted tax and insurance suspensions, only tax is paid elsewhere, otherwise neither tax nor insurance is given. Why? Because it is a very crucial element in the liquidity of the real economy. I said it and I was very clear. Four billion are suspensions every month, 1.5 billion is 800 euros. So you realize how much attention it takes and how good a plan there is to be able to make these distributions. I will again thank the citizens and businesses, which were consistent in March. In fact, the divergence we had from the objectives was very small. We didn't expect us to have that little discrepancy either. This means that citizens are very responsible. And we will continue from our side with the same responsibility, with methodicity and determination, to get the country out of this unprecedented economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u320	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Signature (a) of 25.2.20 B.N.P. ‘Preventing measures to avoid and limit the proliferation of coronary virus’ (A' 42), (b) of 11.3.20 P.N.P. ‘Assisting measures to address the negative consequences of the occurrence of COVID -19 and the need to limit its spread’ (A 55) and (c) of 14.3.20 BC. ‘Association of measures to address the need to limit COVID-19 dispersion (A'64) and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, four articles, four amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u321	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u322	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u323	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring (a) of 25.2.20 P.M.P. ‘Preventing measures to avoid and limit the proliferation of coronary virus’ (A' 42), (b) of 11.3.20 P.N.P. ‘Assisting measures to address the negative consequences of the occurrence of COVID -19 and the need to limit its spread’ (A 55) and (c) of 14.3.20 BC. ‘Association of measures to address the need to limit the dispersion of COVID -19’ (A 64) and other provisions’, a majority was adopted, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u325	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-02-S1-commons.u326	With the consent of the House at 18.34 hours the sitting is closed.
