ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Continuation of the debate and roll-call vote on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikouris, submitted by the Chief of Staff and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and eighty-five Members of the Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Before entering the list of speakers, I would like to remind you that at 20.00 the time has been unanimously agreed that the sitting will end and the roll-call vote will begin. Experimentally calculate that from about 16.00 p.m. to 20.00 p.m. the time will be for the political leaders of the parties and for the six, I say it wholesale. So, by 16:00, the time will go where the list of colleagues arrives. Although it was agreed last night that the MPs should be speaking five minutes, I think five minutes are too short, we will be going to six minutes. It will be six minutes and nine minutes, instead of ten, the ministers. After every six colleagues a Minister will speak. Fortunately today, we don't have many. Yesterday we had the many ministers. The first is Mr. Dendias, who is present. The first six Members will speak, and then I will give the floor to Mr Teddy. So we start where we stopped yesterday with Mr. Dimitrios Janakopoulos. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I honestly wonder from this morning, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the co-population, what can one say to you in six minutes? What can anyone tell you first? To speak of this abstract, new bankruptcy code, written for a single purpose, to facilitate and speed up the procedures for the liquidation of the assets of workers, small and medium-sized businessmen and, in particular, within this unprecedented economic crisis and poverty treaty of society, which has been written for one single purpose to serve the interests of your majestic friends and literally lull the Greek society: From employees, small and medium-sized, farmers, no one is protected. The only thing you create is the fast track process of an extreme redistribution of wealth from the bottom up, instead of creating conditions of protection of the first home. I am passing along, you say that SYRIZA has abolished the protection of the first residence. You say something completely contradictory, that you extended the protection of the first residence twice over and over by April 2020. One wonders: if SYRIZA had abolished the protection of first residence, what exactly have you extended? Do you understand your contradictions? Do you realize that you're coming to this here the Step and you're just mocking with false arguments, with incredible stunts, to create terms of defending a position that is unsupportable? One is, therefore, the aim of the new bankruptcy code, the service of the interests of the big bankers and the redistribution of wealth from the bottom up. What else could anyone say today? To stress your total failure in the management of the pandemic, in health? There's only one clue worth mentioning. One element alone, which proves your absolute inability to manage the pandemic at health level. In your draft budget, the following global paradox is happening: Expenditure on hospitals in 2020 in the middle of a pandemic crisis is reduced, compared with 2019. You say you create support conditions for hospitals and public health. Only one element is sufficient to completely and completely demolish your propaganda. To talk to you about your complete failure in education, which Mrs. Keramos had a job to do, one! Within six months, in this time that society gave it the quarantine, it had to prepare the safe opening of schools. At the moment, we also have the following pan-European paradox, 80% of students in Greece are in classes over twenty. Nor could Mrs. Kerameos do this one job, because I imagine she was busy putting down bills to serve her friends in the summer at the time of the big pandemic crisis. Can anyone talk about your failure in transport, which we see daily unacceptable images with workers stacking in public transport to go to work? Can anyone speak of this newly-built, unexplained right-wing, Mr. Chrysochide, Mr. Dendia, and the lies and insults he had in this Chamber yesterday, comparing the left-wing exiles with the fascist Nazis of the Golden Dawn? Since you are here, Mr. Dendia, do you want to tell us whether the exercise of the sovereign right to extend the country's territorial waters to twelve miles is nationalism? I am waiting for your speech to take a position on this incomprehensible comment by Mr Chrysochide, who, in his new right-wing fanaticism, opens his mouth and does not know what he says. Can anyone talk about your own failure, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance? Can anyone talk about the failure of Mr. Stakoura, who is at the same time a failure of Mr. Mitsotakis himself in the economy? Reductions in wages, dismantling and deregulation of the labour market, small and medium-sized in their luck and lies, lies, lies. You are telling us here the Step forward for 24 billion euros supposedly falling into the Greek economy, when the implementation of the budget, which no one can question, because that is what the truth is and what the lie is, is about total expenditure in excess of the expenditure provided for in the 5 billion euro budget to date. What 24 billion are you telling us? The reality itself comes and disguises you in the most noisiest way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Talk about the degeneration of institutions, functions, rules, the direct assignments you have used as an opportunity to share millions of your friends? Should I speak on the Pecha list or answer the false arguments that you come here and read from non - paper, which have shared you and while you hear the answers, your colleagues then come and read the same non - paper from the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Janakopoulos, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u4	You have failed and led society to complete humanitarian disaster. And be careful, ladies and gentlemen of the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u5	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u6	I'm closing, Mr. President. As much as you walk around admiring yourself, no matter how much you think you are still oppositioning the opposition, I say to you this: The glorious delicacy is following it in social reality and believe that your landing will really be steep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u7	Don't make me intervene, which aren't pleasant to me. Of course, Mr Nindias, I am sure he will respond to the government's position on the inalienable right to extend the twelve miles that the country has. Mr Iasonas Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are really in a desperate position, I would say in a state of disintegration. You try, like the drowned one caught by his hair, by every means to save yourself, to change the agenda, to solve your internal issues, but all you manage is to make yourself laughed out further. You have tabled a motion of censure at a time when the country is facing enormous challenges, such as those of pandemic and Turkish provocation. You did so with purely micro-party purposes, no matter what the country's real needs, showing total irresponsibility. You have tabled a motion of censure to one of the most successful ministers in the government, which has to demonstrate a great deal of success over this short period of time, which is in this position and in the midst of pandemic, with what this entails in economic terms. Let us remember some of these successes. Reduction of HISBIA, remember, this unjust law that is not reduced, but is abolished the next day? You're coming to power. Except, not only did you not abolish it. On the contrary, most of the cases increase it. Well, this unjust ENPY came the government of Mr.Mitsotakis, Minister of Finance, Christos Stakoura and reduced him. Reduction of VAT, you remember this direct tax, which basically affects the weakest and who you found him at 13% and reached 24% everywhere. Uh, this VAT government Kyriakos Mitsotakis with Finance Minister Christos Stakoura came and resuscited him. Reduction of taxation in enterprises to 24%, but also to natural persons. You remember the taxation that you have reached the god in this Chamber, who has confessed that you have exterminated the middle class. Uh, this tax is being reduced by Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the Minister of Christos Stakoura, giving her a breath in the middle class and further breathing also, with the reduction of insurance contributions. Double the heating allowance. You remember those brats the world was burning up. You've held a whole election campaign on these bracelets. You came and what did you do? You reduced the heating allowance by 75%, twice as much as 50% each time. This allowance today, Starros and Mitsotakis doubled it and widened the categories of beneficiaries. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Christos Stagios as Minister of Finance today managed to borrow the country at almost zero interest rates, to give us all the institutions, the partners, credit for the progress of the Greek economy, and to reflect on all indicators, markets, creditors, interest rates, confidence that show global business colossians and come to invest in Greece, in a Greece that in the last four-and-a-half years has not come a single foreign investment, except you have undermined investment. Let's go to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, you are forgetting one key thing: you have ruled and legislated and what you have done is there is no question. Scripta manent. Who is the government, whose own law put an end to the protection of first residence? The SYRIZA Government with Law 4592/2019. It's over and out. Who is the government that established electronic auctions? The SYRIZA government. Twenty-six thousand on your day. It's over and out. Who's the Minister who said he was proud of this? Euclid Tsakalotus. Mr. Tsakalotos and the Government have not gone through an amendment to bring Mr. Lafazanis and your former comrades to the GDR? You may have forgotten about it, but the Greek people remember it all and they classed you. This seems not only from the result of the elections, but from all the polls that have seen the light of publicity up to now. The Greek people will remember you as the government that sent everything to everyone, abolishing memorials, bullies, jungles, money, chasing us to give, and we will not take them, sedition, no home in the hands of a banker, a movement "I don't pay". To end up at the end where? Suppose up to the country’s memorial tombs for the next hundred years. That's who you are. Today comes a law, which really gives a second chance to those in need, a law that says that he who owes much more than he has, will not be captive of his entire life, but will be given the opportunity to make a new start, zeroing his debts. The person unable to keep his residence, to have the right to housing. If it does not have the opportunity, the State will pay him the rent for the next few years in order to get back and, if possible, regain the ownership of his residence. You say 'no', all of you on both. The first - you say - is to lose his property and continue to owe him the second debt to lose his residence, but also the right to live in it. Because this will happen if the existing legislation adopted by SYRIZA remains, unless you reintroduce to the public debate terms such as 'no house in the hands of a banker','sleep', 'I don't pay' and all these populists. But this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have said before you have ruled, and then you have forgotten about it. So you can't talk about it again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just your tolerance, Mr President. Now that Mr. Velopoulos can say, who knows he will never rule, or Mr. Koutsoubas who knows she will never rule, or even Mrs. Gennamas, who also knows she will never rule. Although to be honest, I would expect a more serious political attitude from Mrs Gennimata, since she represents a party that has been in power for many years and has offered post-government Greece and which in a difficult period in 2012 set back. Unfortunately, Mrs. Gennamas chose the easy path of populism. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing this up. We will not follow you to your political catastrophe. We will remain faithful to what we promised and about which the Greek people trusted us. We're turning a page. We build Greece of the 20th century, so that the end of this pandemic will find us ready and stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u9	My colleague, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will take advantage of the fact that you are a doctor with years of experience and expertise in cancer. I'll just announce that October is a month to fight against breast cancer. The House participates in this. Women need to be very serious about it. The successes in this battle are huge. The participation of women will help to ensure that at the end of breast cancer is a disease that is cured. But now let's go to another cancer, the bill you filed. Fourthly, the country's crisis. To health, the game's gone. You know that. You're making desperate and desperate moves. In the economy, the game is gone. You know that. But you're making moves to get lost even faster. National: Orutch Race is sailing in our waters. You don't know if the red line is the border or it's the twelve miles. Because six miles is a border. You don't know if it's populism, verbalism and nationalism the twelve miles. Rhodes sees the ship and the Turkish warships, and we sit here talking. Of course, a crisis in the Republic. As far as wood goes, a form of government response is being made to the reactions of our people and especially young people. Fourteen fourteen sleep in police stations. Golden people are escaping. We've seen them before, we've dealt with them before. While this is the situation, SYRIZA has disappointed you. He dared to testify at this difficult moment that you created, a motion of censure. Look at how you reverse reality. You have dared to submit at this difficult time a bill for the country, which creates the greatest confiscation of property and the flow of money from the popular strata towards the banks and the richest of the population. SYRIZA reacted. He'd come by in secret. You come and you don't tell truths, and many of you tell lies. Same lies. You are not saying, for example, that there is not a single body - apart from the banks - that is confusing in this bill and not rejecting it. You're not saying the whole Opposition is against it. You say what SYRIZA did in 2015, what SYRIZA did in 2016, what SYRIZA did in 2017. By 2015, there was no country. You're lying. You say "first home seizures made by SYRIZA". Not one. For this reason, and when you talk about auctions, you don't talk about first home auctions. It's true, SYRIZA did their e-mails. You're very stylish to avoid this lacquer. It's not the time to report it. Now I'm going to say two things that will sound muddy, you might hear them and weepy, you might hear them like poetic or bad poetry from me in front of the good act we saw before. Ladies and gentlemen. What's first residence? What's the small and medium-sized business? The first residence is your grandfather or father after the Civil War, who came to the city centers to get away from either side or on the other. Worked like a dog, took a plot. Create a room. One room was two. The two are two and a half, three. She grew up children and studied them. She gave her competitor and took two apartments. They took the children's loan and increased their home to fit the families. They took a loan to the kids they studied to open a medical office to open a hairdresser to open a law firm. Paid. They weren't jampers. I have a list of your "outside." If you want real estate, I have a list of the properties your MPs have. People paid. They paid normally, until they lost their jobs through your policy, lost their incomes, and they can't pay. And you come and take them and lead them to the last poverty without having a Memorandum. Because it is your plan and it is the "Pissaridis project". Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The first residence, the small business, the medical office, the hairdresser, the laundry, the architectural office are our small homes. We have our iconostasis, we have the photos of our grandparents, our father, our children. We carried them as we increased our success. We've got the living sweat in there. You want to take them? SYRIZA will resist, the people will resist. You won't make it. As we fight for our country, we will fight for the small homelands that we have created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u11	Me too for the time. Eleventh cycle begins. I recognizing the first three colleagues. It is Mr. Syrigos from New Democracy, Ms. Papanatsiou from SYRIZA and Mr. Cairides from New Democracy. Then Mr. Dendias will take the floor. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic parliamentary authority is a fundamental principle of the Constitution. What does parliamentary authority mean? It means the government's dependence on Parliament's confidence. The Greek political system has three appearances. The first is the vote of confidence in the government. The second is the principle of declared. The third, which we are experiencing today, is the proposal of distrust from the standpoint of opposition. The motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, is the best possible means of parliamentary control at the disposal of the opposition. In that sense, it made me a terrible impression when I heard that the Qualified Opposition tabled a motion of censure against a Minister, Mr Staikoura. We have said that the motion of censure is the most powerful instrument of parliamentary control, which has an Opposition in its hands. It is customary for there to be a major problem to push Opposition into such an extreme option. When a minister like this is controlled, he is usually controlled for corruption or scandals. I come to the first basic question. Why is Mr Stavros controlled? Mr Stagiras is controlled for the government's choice to table a bill on settlement of debts and the provision of a second chance. But that's a government choice. If you see the text of the bill, you will count under six signatures of Ministers and a signature of Deputy Minister. So why is the proposal of distrust personally against Mr Stakoura? We are now going to a second question that is extremely important to your party. How close to social reality is what is happening here today? I counted the headlines this morning in Athens and Thessaloniki. How many of them had the motion of censure as the main issue? Only one: of the party newspaper “THEY”. Three other newspapers reported as one of their main issues under the Gail Code, but only "AGEY" mentioned the proposal of distrust. Why is that? Ask yourself, to understand how close our debate is to society. Of course, the easy answer that is available and given by Mr Tsipras's mouth is different. In his speech he said that "there is a "invisible hand" ejected by the Maximos Mansion, which guides all media". It is a very convenient scheme to explain why you are losing your contact with society: "The government controls all the means". I say to you characteristic words: 'The control room of a well-known propaganda mechanism', 'the invisible editor of the information'. "The circumstances of YENED, but not with a channel, like then, but with a lot of it." 'YENSEN' shall be replaced by the following: How many of the outsiders, who are under the age of fifty, understand what YENS means, this is another matter. But it sounds nice and, above all, it's extremely convenient. "One other evil is to blame for our absence from society." It is generally consistent with SYRIZA's perception of pandemic. Again in the motion of distrust Mr. Tsipras referred to the horn pandemic and told us practically that the only thing that Mr. Mitsotakis is not accused of is how the coronary appeared on the earth. Everything else is indicted. Among other things, the reduced revenues from tourism in August. They all get mixed up together: The students, the schools, the number of passengers in public transport. The poor state behind this is, unlike the citizens and young people who are, at first instance, irresponsible. Behind this story is a cosmopolitan concept basic to SYRIZA: It is the state of "patterulous", which must take you by hand and define each step of yours. I now come to the bill at issue, because of which you tabled the motion of censure. What's your account? "The government, from morning to night, is working on how to get from the back door to the house, how will it lead as many as possible to bankruptcy and how it will make the banks richer." The fact that the banks reacted to this bill goes unnoticed. I do not want to repeat any other points to which colleagues have referred and which have been extensively developed. I will only tell you one point, which I as a lawyer have dealt with several times in practice. In my opinion, very important intervention is to deal with the bankruptcy of natural persons. Today, if a natural person goes bankrupt, he can't pay his debts, he's being auctioned. After they take his fortune, they keep chasing him, he still owes him. They turn against his own income. His people are repudiating the legacy. It's the absolute dead end. That's what he's trying to regulate the bill. I come to the last point, which I think is the most serious problem of your own motion of censure. During the period of governance of the country by you and ANLLs have tabled seven legislation on the matter. Obviously, you have not resolved this, so we are here to discuss it today. What does your account say today? I say this to you in the words of the former Prime Minister: 'After eight years of protection within the memorials, the government is now coming to lift the protection of first residence and, indeed, in the midst of a pandemic'. As you are well aware - because you introduced it - the protection of first residence was abolished horizontally in February 2019. The problem is that you are facing the Greek people, as if they have a memory of amoeba, as if we were a great country of loots and we forget what happened a few months ago. That's what society sees and tells you that's what politicians do, they change, they change, they change. This, gentlemen, is not your problem. Your attitude is to create credibility in the whole political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u13	Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. October 25 is the global day for preventing breast cancer. Mr Muzalas has also been mentioned. I would like, one I am the first woman to speak from the Step of the House to all women. Our important weapon to breast cancer is information and prevention. We all have a duty and duty this time to ourselves. I'm coming to our point. Ladies and gentlemen, the last year and a half we have been living in a dystopia. Every day we see that reality is distorted with great enthusiasm. The Minister for Finance began with a reference from the reason for the impossibility. Minister, have you read all the text? You're putting your political self in the position of someone who's struggling to convince of his rights to retire? You refuse to give back what you have cut them. You continue consciously to do the white one. You appear like saviors while you sink the country daily into the recession. Opportunally, you have formulated that you have a plan, that your aim was to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, to strengthen the economy, to protect citizens. And what are you doing? You take the country back into economic crisis and you come to legislate on the liquidation of the first home and the violent poverty of society. You establish the bleeding of incomes, the snatching of citizens' property in a time of pandemic. You turn citizens into tenants in their homes, to eternal prisoners of the creditors. After the immunity of the bank managers, you bring a law that is cut and sewn to its measures. Everything that didn't happen in time of memorial service, you're doing it now. You prove you are ruling to serve interests. Your plan is the complete restructuring of the market. No other government has been so provocative, so cynical. You do not care about the recession in which your policies are dragging us back. You do not care about health or social cohesion that is threatened. You're on an automatic pilot. The Minister of State told us that on weekends the government is not on vacation. You must be kidding, of course, Minister. Throughout Greece, you are informing your excursions. I do not know what the most successful statement this week is. The statement by Mr Gerapetititi or by Mr Theocharis, that we "wind the bet of tourism"? It would be funny if, in the meantime, you didn't level everything in this country. You have committed an unprecedented attack on society. You are subsidising unemployment and unpaid work, you are demolishing the wages of workers at best, because at worst they have no work. With your policies we returned to times of second memorial, which loaded our country with 70 billion memorandum measures. Half of these were taxes. You remember it at this time, Minister. You then served as Deputy Minister. So who bankrupt the country? Who's the tax government? So, again, we have a rapid recession, a fall in unemployment, massive poverty. The Annual Report by INSE GSE, published recently, is a fist in the stomach". One out of eight lives 200 euros a month. Yesterday, the State Secretary, trying to support the Minister and the government's economic policy, advertised some laws. I would remind you that half of them were almost ready, such as the fixed adjustment of twenty-eight-eight-dollars, and some in action, such as the 100-eight-dollar reduction and the reduction of HUNPIA. The rest, which were your choices, involved reductions in the income tax of legal persons and dividends. Where did we end up? The overall tax charged to the citizens remains at the levels of previous years, low. In legal persons, on the other hand, there is a significant tax reduction from 3.5 billion to 1.5 billion. This is a fair distribution of the New Democracy, socialisation of damage and privatisation of profits. The reproach, gentlemen, turns to your economic policy, on the basis of the tragic draft law on the protection of citizens' property. But we have other reasons for reproach such as: First, Golden Dawn and Left are the two extremes. Violence has come almost exclusively from the Left in recent years. Secondly, social equality is against human nature. Thirdly, five - day work and eight - hour work are outdated. Fourthly, why give the world money to be eaten in the quarantine? Three hundred pounds to go? Fifth, tourism opened with a plan. Sixth, the gathering at the Court of Appeal and the relentlessness of young people are responsible for increasing cases. Seventh, if we hire the ESS or buy more buses, we're gonna have to cut pensions. Eighth, the government did everything it could, the citizens are the irresponsible ones. Ninth, state law, unpaid overtime. Tenth, in other countries we have more deaths. Eleventh, ‘alcoholic skeleton’ and ‘Metzi of the young’. Twelfth, a list of Pechas. There's more. You've crossed every limit. You should be ashamed of all this. On the contrary, you insist. It is the new generation that you charged her with only judgment and memoirs, and now you charge them and the outbreak of the pandemic. It's the workers who go around every day to take their cuts off. It is the small and medium-sized businessmen, who are 'job', as you say, and must be closed. It is the debtors who destroyed the years of the crisis and are punished for losing their home. It's everyone's fault! You alone are not to blame, even though every time you take the wheel of the country, you lead us to the rocks. Either you listen to the needs of society and you change rota or the Greek people will change captains! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u15	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Ciridis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sitting for a third day on a continuous basis to discuss SYRIZA's motion of censure. This is the top parliamentary control procedure. But I think, without any controversy, that we all see and can all agree that society is not involved. It has turned you back - I will be galantomus - it has turned us all, as parliament, as National Representation here this morning on Sunday 25 October, back. The reasons are simple and easily detectable. Some of the previous ones did it. Let me summarise: Firstly, the country is facing an unprecedented pandemic crisis, economic recession and a national threat of great intensity and unprecedented duration from Turkey. Secondly, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is credited with the effective management of the triple crisis, according to both polls - I use data and not ours - and reports from the international press and foreign leaders. We don't. Public opinion says it, foreigners say it, they say it. See the pan-European Pan-European Charter of the Pandemic, for example. Thirdly, for seven meetings of the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament in the course of the last few days, four for the draft legislation at issue in the'second chance', and three for the preliminary draft budget, there was no suspicion of an escalation of your controversy. With his proposal, abundantly, in plenary, Mr. Tsipras surprised his parliamentary group, who ran to collect the necessary signatures and confirmed that the target was a micro-political target for re-engineering around the Chief, rather than really addressing a very big problem that is stirring the Greek society and the Greek economy, that of overcompensation. Fourthly, for two days now - today the third - SYRIZA has failed to haunt any personal reproach against Mr Staikora. It is clear that the proposal is not about the Minister's policy, but about a government choice. Because this choice must go beyond the suffering of the motion of censure has not been seen. The debate and the vote on the bill in question was enough. After all, you are at risk of not submitting a similar motion of censure to all the other bills, which we have brought to all the other ministers as approval. Fifthly, the most important thing is that the bill that SYRIZA chose to criticise with such vigilance complements and widens an unauthorised void, extending the bankruptcy protection to individuals too, not only to traders and businesses, as is the case in most developed countries, for the benefit of those who have been in debt, in order to be able to reboot them again with a second opportunity. If one is entitled to react to this arrangement, it should be the creditor and the banks. I imagine that SYRIZA has not become an attorney for the banks, no matter how confusing it is. Sixthly, there is something more about which our world has turned our backs and we are here to talk about them this morning'speakers and people', as our national Nionus would say. With his proposal, SYRIZA chose to return to the crime scene. Because he was the one who abolished the Katseli law, the protection of the first home, the suspension of the auctions and introduced electronics to overcome the reactions of his former comrades, Panagiotis Lafazanis and Zoe Konstantopoulou. With his proposal, SYRIZA reminisced us of the recurring, the fucking twigs, the populism, with which he came to power and the inevitable conflict with reality, which caused enormous damage to the economy. I want to be clear and specific. No Greek government in peacetime caused so much damage in the history of the place as SYRIZA in 2015. If we don't get confused, 2015 is your foreword sin. This will be chasing you, this will carry you with you, and it'll prey on you on the counterpopulation benches. I'm ending with the most basic one. Seventh, SYRIZA chose populism. He chose populism in national affairs too. I am not going to go into this because we are next to the friend of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will make an overall position, I imagine, on this subject. You seek to lure the political system as a whole and the country into the warp of populism. Instead of discussing how we will deal with the thorny problem of red loans, which had turned our banks into "jobs" and set up our economy in an unprecedented, unprecedented, anaemic recovery after the severe crisis of 2010, instead of bravely discussing the difficulties that we have before us to finally give perspective to our young people not to go abroad, but to stay and prophesy at their place, SYRIZA chose to whine, lie about his past and disorientate from his evil present. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is moved for anyone but the close leading group, the inner part of SYRIZA. That is why no one was moved, beyond the 'SGEI', nor even the 'Recipients' Newspaper' with the motion of censure. This is the first time in the history of the institution, which a proposal passes through the newspaper monopolies. Wonder why. One last thing. If you didn't understand, you have to now. 2020 is not 2015. People'sism doesn't sell. He doesn't sell here, after your five-year-old controversy. It does not sell in Europe, where the people turn the voters to the serious and effective managers, away from the cribs. Let me make the provision: it does not sell to America anymore, in view of the elections on 6 November. The sooner you understand it, the better for you, but also for the stability of our political system, which requires a credible opposition and not this enthusiasm of contradictions and paradoxes that you are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u17	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try - as far as possible - to keep the time. I would simply like to cover the whole range of the country's relations, so that it is not considered that it is concluded or implied. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr President, for the tolerance of the Chair. Before I begin, however, I would like you to allow me to make a general remark. The general remark concerns what I have heard in the Chamber, mainly by the Members of the House. The return to what is allegedly a twofold one in principle, which represents the people and their healthy interests, on the other hand, of a government which is abstract and represents the bankers and the great interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I hoped that these kinds of analyses went to the previous period, but that it was made through the crisis that all parties represent in the way they judge and in their conscience the true interests of the Greek people as a whole and that these simple analyses of good and evil, redneck and evil wolve have ceased to exist and will no longer be heard in this Chamber. As for the private bankruptcy, I have to tell you for reasons of personal honesty that I, too, worked on this in 2014 and I would have finished it if I hadn't left the Ministry of Development in the autumn of 2014, because I consider it a philosophical measure, the ability of the individual to avoid the size of the system for the rest of his life. Also, as a general position, I would like to tell you directly that the New Democracy, the party founded by Constantine Karamanlis, is a folk party, a party that defends and defends popular interests. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In that, to be explained, our relationship with society, with workers and with farmers, we do not give it up and we will never give it up. I now come to the issues of the Ministry, of which I have the honour of leading. Ladies and gentlemen, national issues are particularly critical. You know that. The more than one year of the Mitsotakis government has been marked by unprecedented challenges, first of all the need to bring the country's eaten prestige back from the ten-year economic crisis which has reduced our potential, but also from the need to tackle the major Turkish reform. The Greek answer was structured on the basis of International Law and International Maritime Law, building alliances and understandings, in principle by creating a wide-ranging network of bilateral, tripartite and multilateral schemes, as well as by implementing the timeless national strategy for demarcation of our maritime zones. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have demarcated our continent and our exclusive economic zones first with Italy, shortly after Egypt, and finally we have recently agreed with Albania to refer the matter back to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It has been implemented, I mean, to a large extent with a full national consensus and full national support, what has not been possible for decades, for over half a century. We have reversed - and this is also extremely important - the Turkish account of the spoiled child in Europe, what Turkish diplomacy was trying to create at the expense of our country. The Turkish diplomats said: "Good Greeks do not agree with us. Have they agreed with anyone else?" This has been completely reversed. The Greeks have agreed with everyone except Turkey. However, more generally, ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government operates on the basis of a model. This model includes distinct, but also intersecting circles, which are also vertically intersectioned in addition to the time-consuming axes of our foreign policy. Our first cycle includes the Balkans. We have taken the initiative to promote the European perspective of the Western Balkans on the basis of the initiative of Thessaloniki, along with Deputy Minister Miltiades Varvitsiotis, and we have worked extremely methodically to strengthen our bilateral relations with both the Western Balkan countries and with the Balkan countries as a whole. I have visited with the Minister responsible for finances, Mr Frangogiannis, on several occasions, the countries of the Balkans, in the effort - accompanied by businessmen - to deepen our economic relations. At the same time, by making wise use of the possibilities offered to us by the well-known heresy, we are operating to ensure the minority and property rights of the Greek minority in Albania, rights, which are self-evident in the context of Albania's European future, but also of Greek-Albanian friendship. As far as the Ambassadors' agreement is concerned, it is our permanent position that the New Democracy could be more advantageous to our national interests. Our aim, however, declared by the Prime Minister, remains to implement it and to mitigate its negative aspects as far as possible. With regard to the second cycle, which includes the Mediterranean, the Middle East and the Gulf and Caucasus, we have developed a network of homogeneous states, including Egypt, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Jordan, Armenia. We have created consensus on issues with Algeria, Morocco and Iraq. I have visited all these countries, which I mentioned earlier at the last Baghdad station, and I think we have largely managed to convince with our arguments about the consequences of Turkish practices on the security and stability of the region. After all, most countries have suffered Turkish expansion. As far as the European Union is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have faced a challenge. The challenge was to deepen bilateral relations. It is a great trap for the Council in the European Union. It tends to think that participation in the Council of Ministers is sufficient. That's not good enough. We must strengthen the bilateral axes and we must create - and we have created - a multiple audience account, which we bilaterally explain and convince, not only for the interests of our country in all areas, but also for the fact that the intensification of Turkey, both in Syria and in Iraq and in the Caucasus, threatens the European Union as a whole and not Greece, that the immigration tool, but also the jihadists' travel agency, is a major challenge for the security of the region. Like also, a major challenge for the system of values, which the European Union is mainly represented by the mass violations of human rights within Turkey, and also by the conversion of monuments of global cultural heritage into mosques. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I need your tolerance for about five minutes, if you have any kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u19	Minister, because of quality and topicality you will take three minutes more - because you are the Foreign Minister - because Members must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u20	That's the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u21	Give the Minister a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Kalafatis, I make the decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u23	It is worth noting President Ceci's position that the conversion of a church, a museum in a mosque, also constitutes a violation of Muslim law, not just of Unesco's institutions. As far as the United States, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the signing of the MDCA, the defence agreement, I think that their deepening with Greece is obvious to all of you. I've met Mr. Pompeo six times and we've made a teleconference. I do not think that in the history of Greece the phenomenon has been observed again. But I would like you to know, because the National Representation has the last word, that we are starting almost immediately a new dialogue on enlargement and MDCA or the signing of a new agreement from the outset. With Russia, I hope many of the arrival of Minister Lavrov in Athens tomorrow. Relaunching the Greek-Russian relations is a question. As we are also trying to take advantage of our participation in regional security agencies such as NATO and the OSCE. We would also like to develop our relationship with countries outside the Greek horizon so far. I am referring to India - India is already present in a project, at Heraklion's new airport - in Africa where we open up a new embassy in Senegal - we want to be present in the most developing region of the world - also in Canada, as part of its NATO membership. The Canadian minister was with us last week after twenty and a few years. Of course, in all of this, he is our assistant, our brother, the Hellenism of the Diaspora, in which the Deputy Minister, Mr. Kostas Vlasis, is doing an excellent job. After all, within a little while a new piece of legislation will come under your discretion, which will show the guiding opinions on how a modern foreign ministry needs to operate. As far as our time-consuming axes are concerned, the Cyprus issue is dominating. The resolution of the Cyprus issue is the major national concern and we know that the only way to resolve it is to reopen negotiations on the basis of the Security Council's decisions and fully implement the acquis communautaire. We are working - and you know - with absolute coordination and understanding with the Cypriot Government. With Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, we would like a different climate, a climate of respect and friendly relations, under international law. But on this I want to be clear: we do not tolerate violation claims, we do not tolerate threats of war, we do not stand up to unilateral claims, and I regret to say that Turkey is diverted into a neothmanism, completely different from the secular tradition of the founder of younger Turkey, Kemal Ataturk. To sum up, our foreign policy, the foreign policy of the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Mitsotakis is not dreadful, it is not a policy of a walled Greece, a enclosed Greece, an insecure Greece, it is not a policy of a miserable Greece, it is not a policy of a suspicious, isolated Greece. He doesn't believe in nationalist outrages, he doesn't have populist krone. We believe in a Greece that is modern, open, tolerant to all religions, to all people regardless of color. We believe in Greece, with confidence, in a centre for economic development in the Balkans. We reject Turkey's pitiful provincialism, we adopt an honest European world culture. We will in every way defend our sovereignty, we will in any way defend our sovereign rights, we will defend our homeland, which we are raising with the expansion of our territorial waters, by delimiting the continental continent and the exclusive economic zones, with honest agreements with all our neighbours, other than Turkey, who refuse to come to the negotiating table. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We believe deep in the qualifications of the Greek people and believe in the privileges of our geopolitical position. We believe in the capabilities of our Armed Forces, we believe in the patriotism of the Greeks, who consciously opposes the supreme arrogance of power. We believe in a Greece that, in months, managed and solved issues of half-century that fantasized unsolved. In Greece, we are promoting a brilliant, European, radiant Greece, a new Greece of two hundred years. Thank you very much. You too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u25	What do you want, Mr. Ragossi? For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u26	Please give me the floor for two minutes or if you like, to use the Excellency of the Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u27	What do you want? Do you want to use the excellence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u28	I prefer two minutes, I won't need more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u29	However, I would like to ask the parliamentary representatives: do not start the speeches of two or three minutes, because the Members are gone, they are lost. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nindia, we will be following this attitude that you have shown in your position, admittedly moderate, and in the mood you have also shown not to put, not to carve up matters that you may at this time when you consider that they should not be put here with tension. But even if we want to pass some historical inaccuracies, for example, what you said about the Prespecies Agreement, that your position was that it could only be more beneficial, we cannot do so. No, Mr. Dendia, you know very well that this is not the truth. Your position wasn't that. Your position was that this was a treacherous agreement, which had to not be voted on at all costs, that the Greek people had to rise up to prevent it, and so on, but I am going through it. You have also decided to inform us that we are opening an embassy in Senegal and that you have done well. It is not a small matter, but it is not the issue of the country's days associated with the course and development of our national issues. Two questions I will ask, which I think we do not only have, but I think they were born in the minds of all those who heard you today, either in this Chamber or in the Greek people, who may be watching or will be listening to your position later. You said that we would always defend our sovereign rights. Really, how do we do it all this time, Mr. Treasury? How do we defend our sovereign rights, whether in the case of the investigations carried out at the beginning by the 'Orutch Race' in the context of the potential EEZ that our country has, or at this last stage, within the twelve miles? The second question, Mr Tindemans, which is not really a question, is your obligation to place you, is this. Two very close colleagues of your Prime Minister, Ministers of your Government, Mr Gerapettis the other day, and Mr Chrysochoidis here yesterday, in this Chamber, made two very explicit statements which we did not hear and reacted to, and I will tell you only the Members of the New Democracy and have reacted, heard them and the neighbours. They heard Mr. Gerapettis say that for us a red line is the six miles and yesterday they heard the unexplained one said by Mr. Chrysochoidis, that it is nationalism that the possible extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles, which we proposed to become initially south of Crete, do you disagree, Mr. Teddy, with that? - in a prospect of dealing with the possibility of extending our territorial waters to the islands of the eastern Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u31	Finish, Mr. Ragossi. The questions are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u32	You have an obligation, Mr Tindemans, today to take a position on Mr Chrysochide's position that it is nationalism to extend the twelve miles. I repeat - not for us here, not even for the Greek people, but above all for those who listen to us from across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u33	Minister, would you like to answer? Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u34	I won't need three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u35	I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u36	That's nice of you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to take up perhaps that the country's attempt to infiltrate Africa and the Indian subcontinent is a secondary one. It's not for us. Our obligation is to extend, to the extent that we can, the country's potential. ‘As far as sub-Saharan Africa is concerned, it is something extremely important, too many threats for Europe are expelled from there and therefore, our participation in the European project imposes our presence there. We've always been damaged by our absence. We abstained from Syria and were damaged, we abstained from Libya and we were damaged. As far as the issues of India are concerned, you will allow me, because it may sound strange, to ask for your attention on a matter, that the Pakistani navy exercises along with the Turkish navy. That is why I would ask you, Mr Ragosi, to do so very much - and I am not addressing this to you, Mr Ragosi - the discomfort suffered, the slightly high treatment of the country's initiatives, not to be done, does not need to be done. The moves are contemplated, you know them, and within the Foreign Policy Council, which is constantly repeated, or the bilateral information of the parties, which will be re-elected next Thursday, the government is trying, at the request of the Prime Minister, to have the Qualified Opposition and the other parties at the highest information point. The same applies in general to foreign policy issues. I have neither come here to argue nor to start the cohort nor to repeat standing national positions, which you all support and you are all defending. I would therefore ask that, precisely because everyone is fully aware of the criticality of the moments, they are fully aware of the party's criticality on my position, they are not causing me on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u37	We're moving on. I read the next six fellow speakers. It is Mr. Gokas from the Change Movement, Mr. Ypsilantis from New Democracy, Mr. Dritsas from SYRIZA, Mr. Kapatos and Mr. Kedicoglou from New Democracy and Mr. Friend from SYRIZA. Finally, six colleagues will speak the next Minister, since he has come, who is the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panayotopoulos. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society and our country are facing difficult situations and serious problems with many and critical fronts at this time. Civic Opposition and Mr. Tsipras personally chose to reproach the Minister of Finance individually for the bankruptcy law, dismissing the Prime Minister and the Government from all responsibility and choice, regarding the whole policy being pursued. Even this bill, which leads to bankruptcy and auctioning and first residence for all debtors, without any protection for weak borrowers and without a second chance for small and medium-sized enterprises, is not a personal choice of a minister. Responsibility and options relate to the government of a party, which is fully responsible and has never assumed its responsibilities for the financial derailment of the period 2004-2009. It created the crisis, which brought the Memorandums then, and the Minister of Finance is unauthorized to ignore and attempt to reverse this reality. The government took the popular mandate in July 2019 following SYRIZA's five-year destructive governance, promising that it has an integrated programme. It governs over fifteen months, with no disposition and national understanding, such as in the critical national issues and the health crisis, and despite its promises of "final state" and choice of excellent, we are reliving the state of our own children with a multitude of transmigrants, with opacity, selective awards of contracts and choice of virtues. On the other hand, the government follows all the issues of its tactics by'seeing and doing'. Today, when the citizens of this country need the state's real support, the government reconfirms its conservative and liberal face and leaves the main residence and the citizens unprotected, without any way of defending them, as well as for natural persons. And all this at the worst moment in the pandemic and the double-digit recession. How many will be able to respond to this? On the other hand, the Civic Opposition, which now has as a government that has lost its moral and politically and politically assumed advantages, did not, in principle, vote for PASOK's Law No.3869/2010 on first residence. In 2015 and 2017 laws that abolished the protection of first home, brought the electronic auctions implemented by force and comes today hypocrisy to defend what he himself took care of to be demolished. So he returns to the past with populism, which he never gave up. SYRIZA's colleagues, you very slowly remembered the first residence, you were very late to remember the middle class that you poored. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the only fact that has been implemented over time in support of the middle-class and weak social strata. As I said, the protection of the first residence was established by Law 3869/2010 by PASOK, the most difficult time for the country with everyone across the street. But today, responsiblely, all these months, we have put forward daily proposals, we are proposing solutions and, above all, we ask for self-evident, protection and support for society, that the economy stays upright in this difficult situation. The government has chosen not to form a national line, through political dialogue with regard to the escalating Turkish aggression, but also to try to overcome the crisis, such as in dealing with the pandemic, where it was found without a plan in the second wave. Resurrected in the management of the first wave, it showed inertial in preparing for health. No care for schools with a total of twenty-five and twenty-seven persons in rooms for 80% of the pupils. Fifteen months have passed without a complete solution to the problems of public urban transport. The image is unacceptable. The result of your own policy, but also of SYRIZA, in the four and a half years that he has ruled. Public transport assembling does not allow the government to speak of individual responsibility for the citizens, but we need to talk about its own responsibility. Of course, we do not see any development in the infrastructure sector, either on the road or on the rail network. No new major work began either by BOAK, or by Patras - Tower, paths on which we are constantly mourning victims. Neither E-65 nor the Ionian Road Department Jianna - Cakavia, which is degrading to diagnosed, contrary to its development and national importance and the election promises of the government. More generally, seeing developments in my particular region, Arta, no major work goes on. There we have the elevating irrigation works, the agro-food park, infrastructure for the upgrading of higher education, health projects. Everything's stagnant. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have access to liquidity instruments. The primary sector was found outside support programmes for affected enterprises. Branches such as livestock and poultry farming are having a survival problem. Reduced demand, due to the effects of the pandemic and a number of other factors, form low prices for livestock and agricultural products, such as this period in the olive sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has recently presented an integrated political plan with vision for the country and Greek society, the New Change plan for the country's productive and development reconstruction. Where is the New Democracy Government's plan to make use of 84 billion, resources from the Development Fund, from the current and the next ESDP and from the Common Agricultural Policy for the next seven years? Ladies and gentlemen, on this basis we are voting against the government as a whole. We do not give a vote of confidence in a wrong policy, which does not meet the needs of our country and society, and this is an overall policy of the government and of a minister and certainly not just a destructive bill, otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u39	The speaker of the New Democracy - Nikolaos Ypsilantes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I will begin with a reference to the Mast's Day of Prevention, and I will say this. They are, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, very sympathetic to what you are bringing today, but we must also say that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first Prime Minister in our country, who decided that all women forty-nine to fifty years should do free mastography every two years through the national health system. It is an act that demonstrates the human face of this government and the party. Now on the subject. The motion of censure you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, against the Minister of State, Mr Christos Staikoura, there is no doubt that he will fall into the void. But he comes to reveal your current real function as a Civic Opposition. One year after the elections, you continue to appear as an irresponsible ambiguous, fragmented group, with lame arguments, which are unresponsible to reason and which silence the responsibilities of your tragic period of governance with the ANELs, a period that marked our withdrawal from permanent national positions, which overcompensated the Greek citizen and wiped out the small and medium-sized order. You are talking to us about their pillow and not about the 'defence', ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that is, what the Greek people have finally paid for because of your policy and your international untrustworthyness. They are seeking and striving to identify New Democracy with the implementation of neoliberal policies. Funny, and as an argument, since there is no decision by this government, which does not take account of people, all Greek citizens. You're trying to support your own existence in the void and the curse that SYRIZA is experiencing today. The bad thing, however, for our country is that this bad opposition, I dare say the worst in modern Greek history, manifests itself when Greece is being called upon to face unprecedented situations, prescribing as more important your micropolitical benefit and interest. There is no doubt that this motion of censure is a spasmodic move, using the methods I have mentioned, political shallowness and impressiveness. This seems to be another indication of the personality crisis experienced by the SYRIZA Party. SYRIZA looks back on the past and rescinds memories of the “glorious” 2015 negotiation, when the country's path was consciously overturned by the resolution path and a series of poor manipulations and opened a new cycle of economic impoverishment. The Greek people experienced your policies and denounced them in the most emphatic way. In addition, these disapprovals are now also the result of the demographic collapse of the Civilian Opposition, which is trapped in the introvert and in the ravages that afflict its ranks. Minister Christos Stakoras, at this time of governance of the Government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, proceeded with the proposal and the vote of twelve bills, implemented structural changes, made permanent interventions of a financial nature and not permanently because of the health crisis with a coherent, dynamic and effective package of fifty-nine meters, totalling more than 24 billion at the end of the year. The government has extended a wide-ranging protection net to all levels of political and Greek society. With regard to the draft law on the regulation of debts and the second opportunity, the great economic and social problem of citizens' obligation is dealt with in terms of economic efficiency and social justice. Do not forget that SYRIZA introduced online auctions in November 2017. From the 'no house in the hands of a banker' and 'broken', we went through that - you said - 'Electronic auctions are important, not only to have good banks, but also for development and social reasons'. Result? Since then, since November 2017 and for SYRIZA days, there have been twenty-five thousand six hundred and seventy-two auctions in about a year and a half at first home.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u41	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u42	'No' you say. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u43	No lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u44	Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u45	Say one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u46	Now, listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u47	No lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u48	That's what you say. You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u49	You'll tell your opinion when you get on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like a minute, because they're interrupted. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government will take all this through again successfully, because it is the culmination of major conquests. I am voting against the motion of censure and declare my confidence in the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura, the wise, nourishable, not cultivating false hopes to our people and effective Minister. But I wish - Mr Secretary, you listen to this -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u51	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u52	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would therefore like you to have three things in mind for our islands that have gone through the greatest financial crisis because of the pandemic. Firstly, in view of the difficult winter to support the island company for its losses, as well as our unemployed compatriots. Secondly, to extend the measure of ENVIA to islands of up to a thousand five hundred inhabitants...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Highlands, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, Mr Secretary, do not forget the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u55	The floor will now be taken by Mr. Theodoros Dritsas from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I feel a special honor for bringing this badge to the tower for the world day in the battle against breast cancer. I wish to wish the women in Greece, in Greek women and in Greek women all over the world to win this battle, those who have the misfortune to get sick of this disease, and in science to make even greater leaps so that this very frequent illness is a past. Let me say, of course, that it is the right of the National Health System, Mr Ypsilante, to examine women free of charge by periods and not by the donation of Mr Mitsotakis. I am going to change my speech a little, because we have had the interest of the Foreign Minister, Mr Teddy. Minister, you too - but you are entitled, because they are days of crisis - and the government and all the ministers are paralyzing, at the same time turning the motion of censure into a motion of censure for the government and exposing their work, perhaps because of the imminent - I do not know - reform - that does not include you - and that leaves Mr Staikora and the State Secretary with a statement, so for the price of arms, that they are in favour of it and avoid the debate on the bill. It was very interesting what you told us, Minister, but you missed something. When you say "the People's Party": "The People's Party" is the New Democracy, because it actually has a people's basis, regardless of whether it is a client's and all this, but it does not have a political, pluralist policy. Mr Nines, what we are debating today, the motion of censure on the first residence bill, is the most important one - and this vindicates the initiative of the President and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - an attempt to ensure social cohesion and social justice, a condition which is incomprehensible to claim the country's sovereign rights and defence. This is quintuosity and seriousness, with which social issues and national issues coincide. Now, for the rest, I think that after the Prime Minister refuses to convene, under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic, a Council of Political Heads, it is urgent again that you should come back to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the next few days and inform you of all the latest developments. Finally, the intricate way in which you dealt with the intervention of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Ragosi, and the questions that have been put to you - gives us the right to assume that, at least on your part - I do not know on the part of the government - you do not accept Mr Chrysochoidis' memorable and dangerous statements, which Mr Mitsotakis has to pay off. In any case, however, this is not your issue. I think you've dealt with it very wisely and correctly. We received this message against Mr Chryssohoid's famous statements in Parliament from the Ministerial Chairs. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the initiative of the President and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance finds an objective. The Government and the New Democracy are in defense. They are trying to regain SYRIZA's supposed responsibilities in the rule of five years. Indeed, for many and various reasons, which we can easily assess, no first popular residence has been auctioned and has not been deducted from the rightful owner throughout the years. This was a product of systematic effort with balances and acrobatics many times, but just to achieve this. SYRIZA's government did it. In fact, this is a prisoner, which has to be a driver for follow-up. We can't leave it like this. The story won't be rewrited. It's written. And SYRIZA's government took the country out of the memorials. Configured debt regulation framework. He formed a strong reserve. It has shaped support for the social state. Decrease unemployment. These are what you found, unlike what we found in 2015, which we supposedly destroyed the economy of a bankrupt country from the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK for many years. You won't rewrite the story! In this direction, therefore, it is necessary to see this initiative by SYRIZA. Because the impoverishment, today, ladies and gentlemen, is... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Already since yesterday, ELSTAT has told us that in the second quarter of the year we are going through, the household incomes have decreased by 4,000,000 euros. Summer months may be a bit inhibited. Already in the fall. In winter this will be launched. At the same time, we have 10% reduction in wages, at least, at the same time. We have a hundred and eighty thousand young unemployed. Is it possible in these conditions for the poverty of the Greek society - negligence, adding to previous poverty - to such a bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Dritsa, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u58	I'm done, Mr. President. This is the responsibility and obligation of the President and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, because we are tabling the motion of censure. As a major issue, the first residence, but also social cohesion, must become a brake on poverty. It's a big threat in front of us for the winter, along with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Dritsa, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u60	Exactly, pandemic, national issues and poverty go together and not separately. It's the major issues, synthetic and combined, to stand our homeland upright.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Dritsa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u62	I'm done, Mr. President. That justifies our initiative. That is why the motion of censure must be voted in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u63	The speaker of the New Republic, Mr Panagis Cappatos, has the floor,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, last Thursday, a few hours before the SYRIZA's proposal of distrust was tabled by walking in the hallway of this historic building, some measures from the office of the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, I noticed an unusual mobility. The assembly of SYRIZA Members has given me interest, about what might have happened, but without any more importance. It would be difficult to imagine that the second parliamentary power would be prepared to take advantage of such an important instrument of parliamentary control to resolve organisational deadlocks which as a party is facing. This, because whatever issues SYRIZA is asked to resolve internally, concern him and no one else. It does not concern the government facing two parallel fronts, that of the coronary and the Euro-Turkish crisis. They do not concern the majority of society, which bears the burden of adapting to an unpleasant health reality and everything that this entails in our economy and everyday life. They do not concern the majority of the political world, which, despite the differences between us, we are called upon to side with them for the benefit of the two fronts which we are combinedly facing. However, there is also a parameter that the motion of censure to Mr Stavoura may be of concern. It's no longer a chance to show the truth. It was truly the first: SYRIZA was the one who, as a government, abolished by a law and more articles the protection of first residence in February 2019. Truth 2: Millions of account seizures were made on SYRIZA, even for debts of a few hundred euros. Truth 3: On SYRIZA twenty - five thousand electronic auctions took place. We were told emphatically by Mr Tsakalotos. True fourth: On SYRIZA we have become spectators of the unpleasant civil conflict between Mr. Tsipras and Lafazan for political practices, and today you are forging indifferently. Do you forget about it so easily, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department? Fortunately for us, we still have memory. We remind you of the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, the new bankruptcy code is a key and necessary reform. If the property of the citizen is divested today, his debts remain and are persecuted. We, on the contrary, propose to get the opportunity to try again, allowing him to return a page to his life. If you are really concerned, colleagues of SYRIZA, about the first residence, then you must give the opportunity to those who are bankrupt have the right to work on a level playing field, to have the opportunity to create new assets again, without remaining hostage debts for the rest of their lives. Given that no business can be guaranteed a success, temporary failure is part of real life. For that very reason, we do not have the right to make bankruptcy in a sentence that follows citizens throughout their lives. Greeks, like other European citizens, must have the opportunity and the freedom to try again. The motion of censure, tabled by SYRIZA, was really an excellent opportunity to discuss and look for the substance. It is not just that you allowed us to get out of this process more powerful. It would be short-sighted and selfish to show this contribution to the only one. On the contrary, you also gave us the opportunity to highlight in depth aspects of the bill on the second opportunity, a draft model bill on what is socially just and financially feasible, which is, of course, not discussed by itself as a legislature, but in the context of the reform effort, which we, as a majority, have done in the last year, for the changes that the country needs to survive among the modern democratic and free countries of the world, for a state that is friendly to the citizens and ready to meet the major problems of society. But allow me, before I finish my position, to make a reference to Kefalonia and Ithaca and the choice of Officerial Response not to vote for the relief measures of our fellow citizens from the Mediterranean Cyclone 'Janos'. It makes me disgraceful whether my SYRIZA colleagues will at some point find the courage to put aside any micro-political interests, for the benefit of the many in society, if they realize that we are determined to implement our programme, in full honour of the popular mandate we have received. To say this simply, by voting against the motion of censure, in the person of the Minister of Finance, we are not simply at the side of the government majority, but at the side of the Greek citizens, who have sent us to the headquarters of Parliament, to solve problems, not of our inner party partners, but of our place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u65	Evia MEP Mr Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. The motion of censure is a leading moment in parliamentary procedures. It's the most important weapon of the opposition arch and, above all, of the Officer's Opposition. The Rules of Procedure of the House are being given a grief, and that is why the motion of censure is being put forward in order to make best use of it. From my - not small - parliamentary experience, I confess that it is the first time I have seen CSR shoot itself with a motion of censure. I will not dwell on the media reports, although glossing, it was delightful for the radio comment that the receptor on this proposal should send a bouquet to Mr Tsipras. The ironic to burning remarks of the minor opposition at the expense of Mr Tsipras should concern him. "Look who's talking!" It could be the bilingual title of this story. He speaks the one who proclaimed: “No house in the hands of a banker” and then abolished the protection of the first residence with the laws of 2015 and 2019. He is talking about protection, who says that electronic auctions are important, to have good banks, but also for development and social reasons. In support of his words, he made over twenty - five thousand auctions. He speaks on behalf of the middle class, the one who has declared himself to be targeted by the wildest tax raid he has ever suffered. I understand Mr. Tsipras' need for a communication firework, a diversion, not only from his internal problems that accumulate, but from the works and days of his administration, which are revelation. Mr. Kontonis simply put the last chapter of the questions. There is a lot to be answered: The setting up of the "NOVARTIS", which collapsed into a revelation orbit for its inspiring. The crazer of television licences, the pastures and the strange funding. The cross-categories of Kotzia and Kammenos - the top ministers of the Tsipras government, so that we do not forget - about the millions of Soros and the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The strange trips of Papa to Venezuela and Cyprus. The unpleasant reference to Maximus' magma and dark mediation in business differences. For this and many other things that have been made public - we are not talking about skeleton in the locker, it is simply a whole osario - it has not found a word for Mr Tsipras to say, hence the need for a diversion. Unlucky - probatively - his inspiration. Anyone who knows the basics for communication, knows that the current context factor, the Timing that we say in our language, is also decisive. So he chose a juncture that Greece gives a crucial two-front struggle, with pandemic and Turkish challenges, and where government choices are approved by the vast majority of citizens. Proof of failed tweeting and poor media exposure. I don't want to hear about controlled media again. Even the editors' newspaper only had a simple one on the day following the proposal. It was unfortunate to choose the target. Christos Stakoras is one of the most successful ministers. It fully and effectively implements the programme of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which Greek citizens have approved with their vote. He quickly revived the Greek economy with a series of reforms and drastic changes, proof of the rapid decline in interest rates in all bonds issued by the Greek State. And when the world pandemic inclined, it immediately, in cooperation with the Prime Minister, to take brave measures, so that we can overcome all Greeks together and this test. That is why there is no reason - to respond to the remarks which have been made - to turn the motion of censure into a vote of confidence. For Christos Stakoras has the full confidence of the Prime Minister, he has the full confidence of all the Members of the New Democracy. It was unfortunate that Christos Stakoras has dared and achieved what no predecessor has attempted for ten years: a comprehensive plan to address the problem of high private debt. A major problem, which became an explosive against SYRIZA, when it increased by 25%. The tax raid we were talking about has reached 234 billion, 50 billion more than the gross domestic product in 2019. As much has been heard about banks, most of the private debt - more than 60% - is in tax authorities and insurance funds. It's all about us, that is. If it is not resolved, it is loaded in the future, all Greeks indiscriminately. Christos Stakoras deserves congratulations, because he dared and managed to present a coherent, innovative and reformative institutional framework for the holistic treatment of the accumulated private debt. With a preventive early warning mechanism. With incorporation of all individual debt adjustment tools. With a second chance. With the possibility of repayment in up to twenty years. With permanent predictions for vulnerable social groups. Christos Stakouris deserves congratulations and, of course, he also has my trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u67	Mr Nikolaos Friend from SYRIZA will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, are you telling us why the motion of censure now, because to a minister and a bill rather than to the whole government? We respond: why SYRIZA in conditions of pandemic crisis and with open national issues exercises a responsible opposition. SYRIZA is not being lured from asking for elections now. That would mean a motion of censure for the entire government. We say openly to the Greek people that our pandemic removes weapons, mainly that of the elections. Yes, we are not asking for elections, despite the fact that the whole of government policy is causing us to do so. We are not now removing from the country's arsenal the minimum consensus that is required between the political forces in order to deal with our pandemic and this choice, which, admittedly, is difficult when that government sinks the country into a huge crisis. We are sure that it will be appreciated by the Greek people. At the same time, however, we do not remain silent under our mask. We will not allow you to use the pandemic as an alibi to dismantle what has left the bankruptcy that you have caused. We will not allow you to put Parliament and citizens' rights in quarantine. It seems to me that a number of New Democracy Members are pleased today because the press is not talking about the subject of our debate. But that's an indication of at least a crisis of information. It is a sign of why the citizen is being removed from the information system. So do not rejoice about this stupid political crisis in the press. We will not let you, gentlemen, rewrite history by incriminating the democratic choice of our people in 2015 to rely on old-fashioned and memorialism and open a path of democratic rebirth and fair growth for our people. We challenge you to answer when first home auctions were made on SYRIZA. When? Never. Not even one! Between 2008 and 2014 there were two hundred and six thousand auctions. On SYRIZA there were only twenty - five thousand over four and a half years, that is, what the Samara government did in just one year, in 2012. Mr. Stagiras presents the monastery discussed for the delivery of the first home to the banks in conditions of pandemic, added to the effects of the Memorandum of Default, in conditions of outrage, destruction of the productive fabric and with a record of unemployment. Yet pandemic could be an opportunity to freeze any process of liquidation of the first home. Other countries do so in the European Union. But you are using pandemic to make a huge redistribution of wealth for the mighty. Dissolve working relationships, turn 12% of workers into slaves, being paid less than 200 euros a month. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure obviously concerns the whole of the Ministerial Council and, first of all, the Prime Minister. But I'm focusing on some ministries: We question Mrs. Kerameos for her law, which has increased the number of students per room in kindergartens and primary schools, for the one million children who have stacked in overcrowded sections, for the hundred thousand children in classes above the twenty-six students. We share it with the American multinational 'CISCO', which is being prepared - for the first time in time - to hold elections to the educational boards, without any lists, since all the groups - and the IACC - withdrew their candidates throughout Greece, denounced the electronic vote as a diabetic, the vote that is being taken by the Ministry of Education. We are addressing Mr Chrysochide for the dissolution of the anti-fascist rally, for the repressive orgy at the expense of the young and the disciples, for the escape of the Pope. It is courageous for Mr. Chrysochoidis to come in and make connections between the left-wing fighters, who were dragging into the executive excerpts and the torrents, and Chrysangitis Pappas. Shame on you! Shame on you! We are talking about politics, which strengthens racism and aggression against refugees. In the House, he even admitted that the Greek forces are carrying out refugee expulsions in the Aegean Sea. We will not tolerate new crimes, such as in Pharmaconisi in the Samaras government, for which our country was internationally dispersed. We are still waiting for explanation, together with the hundreds of MEPs, about the existence of or not dead refugees in Evros from Greek fire. We question the Government for its denomination in nationalist stereotypes, secret diplomacy, bilingualism in foreign policy. They portray lions inside the country and become predictable pets in the White House or in the secret polls in Berlin. It needs national co-operation and undeniable insistence on a line of peace and dialogue in Greek-Turkish relations for the Cyprus issue, where the bitter defeat of Aquintzis for the first time brings to the fore the division of Cyprus so strongly. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Mitsotakis have said first and foremost. We are following a decisive and, at the same time, responsible for programming opposition, which creates the prerequisites for a new social and political current, which will defeat neoliberalism. Mostly, however, we send a clear message that SYRIZA returns to society and movements as a party of struggles and governance. We practically recognise mistakes and failures of our administration. We are putting the new agenda of rights, work, climate crisis, threats to digital capitalism that turns teleworking into an unemployed person, racism and authoritarianism, which together with unaltered neoliberalism the new radical right, which objectively opens the way to the extreme right. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in this Chamber your arrogance and your mischievous invoicing on your part of a hood of short-term political sovereignty. Keep proud and comforting yourself for the polling photos of the moment! When you see the voyage of the nearest events, it will be too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u69	I had announced that after Mr. Friend, the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, will speak, but for some reason, he will be delayed. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Varvitsiotis, will speak in his place. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is politically incomprehensible that SYRIZA's proposal of distrust for the Minister of Economy is incomprehensible. It is incomprehensible, not only for the subject, because no one forgets that the big change in relation to the auctions of the first place took place on a governmental basis SYRIZA - I think that you are trying to apologize within your audience and your former partners, Mr Lafazani, Mrs Constantopoulos - but also because of the terrible news. We are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis, which has serious economic consequences. We are faced with a second wave, which all over Europe is very concerned about - of course, more and more measures are increasingly being imposed at European level to limit our individual freedoms and reduce economic activity - but at the same time, we are also in the biggest and long-lasting crisis of the last decade with Turkey. In the face of this crisis, we should show that we have understood and taken the burden of responsibility, which is due to this Parliament and this government, in order to counter these coordinates and nationally united challenges. Greece is a country that has invested for its external defence not in the power of weapons alone. We have powerful Armed Forces and we surround them with confidence. The Greek people are bleeding every year to fund them, to constitute our deterrent weapon to Turkish provocation. However, we have invested for our safety in a large grid of international relations. A great burden has been placed on Greek diplomacy to counter all these challenges. I think the Minister of Foreign Affairs has adequately described all of the relations that are being cultivated in the East, in the West, in the North, in the South, in order to create a consensual to this new Turkish, neo-ethnic. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] However, our European policy is at the heart of tackling Turkish provocativeness. In Europe, we have finally come to an end, justifying the choice of Constantine Karamanlis, who, in vain by the then opposition, has put the country in the European Union, not only for the country to leave from poverty, which has been crushing it for centuries, but also for security to finally gain. Today we look forward to our participation in the European Union and in the diplomatic weapons that it provides to us in order to tackle the Turkish provocation. That is why we are trying not only to strengthen our presence in the European Union, but also to be one of the countries which are at the forefront of all the decisions taken in it. Although SYRIZA wants to misinterpret statements made by government officials and by me, it is true that we are asking Europe to arm itself with a credible framework of strong sanctions against Turkey to prevent Turkey from taking the above step. It is a fact that we are asking Europe of twenty-seven to agree on issues where different interests may throw us into divergent marches. But European policy is not just our security policy. It is also our economic policy. That is why we were from the countries that were right to negotiate and negotiated, from the outset within the framework of the negotiating framework, which was established for the creation of the Recovery Fund, the right tools so that our country is one of the most advantageous. Europe took a huge step this summer, a step in which the Greek Government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, was one of the first to ask. In fact, it has reciprocated debt, which Greece has been asking for years to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis. We were negotiating a hundred hours, not seventeen, and brought back 72 billion, we did not give 100 billion, so that we could get our country to be the most advantageous of this Recovery Fund. This Recovery Fund we want to use in ways that we can shield the Greek economy in the peninsula. Not waste it on the new rich's medal. But investing in green growth and investing in the digital transformation of our state and economy, so that we do not find ourselves in need again, when this cycle of fiscal relaxation is completed, go again and ask for a loan and an unscrupulous demand. At the same time, we have developed a grid in our Mediterranean relations with our strong participation in the MED7, which are now a shield and in the issues relating to environmental protection in the Mediterranean, but above all, the protection and stability of the Mediterranean, which Turkey is currently threatening. It is absolutely essential to deepen this relationship by further developing our strategic support for both Spain and Italy, countries that seem to be more relaxed in dealing with Turkish reform. We will do this through deepening our strategic relations with these countries. A major step has been taken with the finalisation of the agreement on the EEZ with Italy and similar strategic cooperation steps have to be taken with Spain. After all, these countries also unite us with a common problem. That is the problem of immigration. Greece has ceased to present itself as a transit country, as it has been in the past, where immigrants and refugees enter and leave it. Greece is now a country which defends the European borders. He defended them in Evros, when Turkey provokedly used immigrants and refugees in a peculiar form of hybrid war against the European Union and Greece. So it also defends them in the Aegean and will continue to defend them in the Aegean. Today we are looking forward to great funding from the European Union for upgrading monitoring systems in the Aegean Sea, in the air and in the sea, so that we can counter any new waves of migrants. Of course, with Italy and Spain, we are in a context of confrontation with this challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as all these initiatives and the fact that we will continue to strive unnecessarily within the European Union, our country has recently had the honour of having the Presidency of the Council of Europe and we have also made progress there, which, during a period of political division of the European continent and major tensions, are essential steps forward and show that Greece can also achieve multilateral diplomatic successes. Two important new pages will be adopted in Athens tomorrow for the Council of Europe, the Athens Declaration, which is a framework of principles, the first legal text with global power, to tackle pandemic and the prevalence of the rule of law, democracy and human rights in the period when such restrictions are introduced, but also in parallel with the adoption of the monitoring centre for the learning of history. We know here in the Balkan south how difficult it is to consult with your neighbours for an objective approach to history, which has made us very much aware of in the malicious and bad Ambassadors' agreement, which we have been asked to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u71	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u72	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, through participation in Europe and through its presence and active participation in all the major European decisions, has a very great opportunity to become a leading country in Europe and not to become a country which opposes the European ideal. I believe - and we hope - that in this direction, the efforts made and those made, Mr President, will fruit and rise to Turkish provocation, not only a wall of statements of support for Greece and Cyprus, but also a substantial wall of protection against this provocative behaviour, which has elements of the 18th century's review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the SYRIZA distrust proposal, it is argued in two words that the bill on debt regulation and the second opportunity is another failure of a failed economic policy, before and after the pandemic. Colleagues, as well as government officials, are speaking to us with numbers and events that cancel the claims of Officer Opposition. We are talking about the 24 billion, which support for households and businesses in pandemics: special-purpose allowances, various reductions and facilities, reductions and rent subsidies, repayable advances, interest rate subsidies, liquidity subsidies, contributions and loans, measures for the whole sectors that are being tested most, but also for whole regions, which have been hit by the natural disasters of last month. We are talking about reducing direct and indirect taxes and levies, HISPIA, the tax rates, the VAT that will be followed up, as soon as our conditions allow. We are talking about the major changes that prepare the dynamic growth of the economy, investment, most and better jobs and how their benefits will be shared to many. One of them is the law on settlement of debts and the second chance. We are talking about successful assessments and the return to markets with excellent loan terms as a reward for our good work in the economy. We are talking, in other words, about all the things that have kept our country standing up in a tough trial, but also about the commitments made in a difficult way. Having these in mind, one might wonder why SYRIZA resorted to the motion of distrust against Christos Stakoura. Is it to cover his nakedness as Antipopulation? An opposition with no objectives, no cohesion, no compass, no depth. A counterpopulation that makes the hair and lives only by minor failures from those that can be achieved in every government and which is costed by any protest against the government whatever it is. Or is the tabling of the motion of censure used to turn people's attention away from the problems faced by the Party of Officers' opposition to inner-party whims, the leader's underlying question, the declaration to polls, irresponsible and dangerous positions in foreign policy and the economy? Ladies and gentlemen, yes, they may also be: The absence of a strategy, the disorientation of the debate, and the stimulus of the parliamentary morale. I think, however, that this obvious tactic move still has one purpose: to rinse SYRIZA out of serious sins as a government, its responsibility, because it has neither been able to find a clean, permanent, effective solution to reduce the huge problem, which is called a reduction in private debt, tax debt, funds and banks. SYRIZA does not want citizens to remember that he abolished the protection of first home by two laws. He does not want to remember that, with his policies as a government, he launched the private debt by 50 billion. It does not want them to remember that it has broken down the value of bank shares and had to be saved with taxpayers' money once again. He does not want to remember that his efforts to reduce private debt were failed, problematic, unwilling to solve problems, only to buy time. The law which, after abolishing the horizontal protection of the first home, did not even raise a thousand four hundred applications, and concerned some ninety thousand borrowers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With the extrajudicial compromise mechanism, which it voted in 2017, it adjusted debts of only 0.03 % of companies. At the same time, the SYRIZA government - which, as a opposition, said: "until 2015 no house in the hands of a banker" - said that the auctions are necessary with the newspaper "HAGI" to state on its front page: "Nevertheless the immunity to malicious luxury payers". Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they are the same ones who are today denouncing a permanent, innovative and fair framework for the protection of first homes, which gives the most borrowers, with special support to the weakest households, to rescue their homes and who, in fact, is injuring the immunity of so-called'strategic poor payers'. This pending SYRIZA from its irresponsibility as opposition, in its responsibilities as government, again in its irresponsibility today must be remembered by the citizens, because the substrate in either one or the other is one and it is called hypocrisy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But people have more serious things to do than SYRIZA theatres. It expects a Civic Opposition that stands at the height of circumstances, the one that is still looking today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u75	The next speaker is Vits Dimitrios from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u76	Three days we've heard a lot. But there are also some who violate the limits of reason. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be with Mr Pikrammenos, who says that the twelve miles are our right and we will act as a government whenever we want, in response to the need to extend the twelve miles to Crete and then to the Eastern Mediterranean, but be with Mr Chrysochoidis who says that the twelve miles are nationalism. It can't be done. Secondly, it must be understood that when a company goes bankrupt, it becomes financially dead. The question is: When a natural person goes bankrupt, what happens? We reach the core, namely the first residence, the right - one of the five fundamental human rights - in housing. We don't have a housing policy too many years and now that we're talking about it, we're ending up: "You don't have that right. We can remove it." Who? The banks. Why? Because you have a red loan. In other words, these things need to be elected to discuss. If you do not understand what a great change is taking place in the economy, but first and foremost in society, you do not understand why the motion of distrust was tabled to Mr. Stakouras, who Mr. Stagioras comes here to the House and says: "The proposal of counter-population is timeless, because we have a pandemic and intensity of Greeks, it is poor and it is hypocritical." If the motion of censure is untimely, the deposit of the bill within the pandemic, with the intensity of the Greek-Turkish, etc., what is it? Put it in your head! What's "wrong" mean? He's not here to explain it to us. That he shouldn't have turned to him, but to Mr. Mitsotakis? Let the two of them solve it if they give each other. Is it 'critical' for what? It says: "The bill gives a second chance". I don't know what a second chance you're giving a man - who doesn't have to pay the 500 euros for his loan a month - by paying 600 euros for his home. I don't know if that's a second chance. But this is the great opportunity - it must also be understood by the Members of the New Democracy - for banks to correct their balance sheets and build a series of bank products, structured bonds and derivatives to play as banks and funds on the international financial markets. That's the reality. And it's not a hypocrisy. Remember more realities. For many decades, Greek capitalism has been based on housing, house-building. I see Mr Fotella, who says: 'We are building Greece of the 21st century'. I'm sorry, you're tearing down Greece and the 20th and 21st century, I think it's, Mr. Foela, but I'm telling you that's what they want to do. So now that the housing stock has been minimized and the red loan process has increased, the banks what do they want? To make use of this stock and the tolerance caused by the economic crisis and by the pandemic to their benefit, in order to win them at all times. Let's not forget: where did the big 2007-2008 economic crisis come from? Of mortgage housing loans in the United States of America. ‘Or you don't even know that? These, as structured bonds, have shaken up international financial markets, but have shaken the whole of America's economy. So your ideology to confront man, the natural person basically, as an economic unit, will cause too many problems and will cause poverty on the one hand, profits on the other. It will create a massive redistribution of wealth that will go to the bank and the funds. So what we are actually talking about - and all parliamentary weapons need to be exploited - is the course of the Greek economy after the disaster at the beginning of the last decade. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Question: In 2015 we received an economy on the tartars. We corrected the debt, removed the country from the memorandum and had continuous quarterly growth. You are not saying this a failed economic policy to make a motion of censure to Chakaloto, to Drasakis or - as Mr Hatzidakis said, who took it off - to the Greek people. On the other hand, Mr Stavros, New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis came. He's not here. I hope that by the end of the day he will tell us his appreciation for the recession in 2020, because it started from scratch on 13 March, it has reached the budget at 8%, and that still has not. Look, there is the April statement saying that the recession rate has to do with pandemic and government choices, and it should be apologied for that. Let us be honest - I close, Mr President - you are using pandemic as a cover for a new redistribution of wealth and its holders. Anyway, I would like to say something, not for Mr Georgiadis, but for the fact that many New Democracy Members - Musala said so - have a high loan and not a corresponding revenue, at least on the basis of his statements 'whereabouts'. They'll have to see that, too, in relation to the law. I'm not saying there aren't others. So, I would suggest that, after the law's been passed tomorrow, you make an appointment on one side with your accountant, on the other hand with your lawyer, see how you'll get through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u77	Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, tabled by SYRIZA, continues a truly bad and meaningless theatrical work decided by the Opposition to go up for this three-day day. Why did you do it? The opinions are divided, ladies and gentlemen. Half of them say it's for clearing up accounts. Half the others say to get out of obscurity and dominate for a few hours in publicity. I personally take a more pleasant version, namely that you made it a birthday present for the forty-six years from the establishment of the New Democracy, which we celebrated a few days ago. For fate these days there is a comparison between the economic policies of the current government and the government of SYRIZA, which Mr Stagiras and Mr Tsakalotos have applied respectively. The memory of our fellow citizens is freshened and they realize that the day is compared with the night. Because it is reflected that Mr. Stakoras, in implementing the programme of the New Democracy, restored the credibility of the country and today borrowed from markets with historically low interest rates, when on Mr. Tsakalotou was on top. Mr. Stavros has reduced the taxes Mr. Tsakalotos had increased. Mr Stavros created investment incentives, what Mr Tsakalotou's policy had destroyed them. It facilitated the lack of investment that Mr Tsakalotos and the other SYRIZA ministers prevented from displeasing their hard companions. Lower the VAT, while you had increased it. He reduced insurance contributions and abolished the solidarity levy. Thank you, therefore, for giving us the opportunity to highlight the facts of this time. With this in mind, are you ultimately right by those who say that your former Minister is actually targeting you? You blame Christos Stakoura for not protecting his first residence. Instead of us responding to such jokes, should we ask the opinion of your former partner, Mr. Lafazani? Who ruled when he reacted to electronic auctions? Wasn't Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsipras not right to have good banks, but also for developmental and social reasons? Lotus feed you there in Kumbuduru and you don't remember all this? Ladies and gentlemen, with the motion of censure something else emerged: the political quality and political morality and the size of the patriotic sensitivity of the Greek opposition officer. While the country is facing the global pandemic, its consequences, Turkish provoking and disasters from natural phenomena in many regions of the country and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis successfully administers them, the Civic Opposition submits a motion of censure to the Minister of Finance. She is concerned by the strife and they are trying to fill the endless void in the country's political belligerents. Do you realize, gentlemen, that you have reached the limits of graphics? You did not vote for any bill, which relieves Greek society, not even this for the financial relief of the "Janus" affected. The day before yesterday, you again did not vote on compensation for farmers who were affected by theory. Mr. Tsipras and your executives came to Carditsa, are supposed to be of interest to the wounded and to make autopsy. What did he say? Didn't he see disasters? The people there don't need financial support? That was just hypocrisy. At the same time, in the European Parliament, SYRIZA objected to the European Commission's proposal on the new CAP, which provides for an influx of EUR 19 billion for Greek farmers. Of course, you will have to explain your position to the farmers in Thessaly and not just. Today you say that only banks benefit. You want to refer your party audience to your old good slogan: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. So let us catch the cause of reproach on first - residence protection. Did SYRIZA, who was seismic as government, then definitively abolish the protection of the first residence, with Law No.4346/2015 and Law 4592/2019? For these thousands of citizens, which you left unprotected, our Minister Stakoras succeeded or failed to extend their protection? He got her. Is it not courageous to talk about bankruptcy of natural persons and the hostage of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, on your day, were seized almost five million seizures in accounts? Invoke social sensitivity. You showed her when you cut off the NSA. However, we show it by deeds rather than false words. At the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Minister of State Christos Stakoura we voted fourteen bills to strengthen the economy and social cohesion, mainly supporting the weakest social strata. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Increase tax rate for each child, exemption for small remote islands, reduction of taxation on natural persons and businesses, suspension of VAT on new buildings, zeroing of advance income tax and much more. So where does the SYRIZA tax collect his motion of censure? The Minister, who introduces an innovative draft law on the second chance, which aims to avoid bankruptcy? To the Mitsotakis Government, which has the political courage to block strategic malpractices? Is there a motion of censure on legislative procedures, which ensure that no one has been in debt and locked up in all its years? Motion of censure against what after all? The debtors? Don't they have the possibility of a new start? What about one generation's debts being transferred to the next, to the children and the grandchildren?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u79	Complete, Mrs. Skondra.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u80	I'm closing, Mr. President. Because this is the fifth of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, second opportunity for everyone and protection for the next generations. I support our Minister, Christos Stakoura. And as for you, SYRIZA colleagues, I always wish you so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u81	Mrs. Kefalidou Charula has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that Mr Tsipras' insistence on regularism, particularly when it comes to the abuse of parliamentary instruments of urban democracy, which he adores to degenerate, is abundant. Four and a half years of governance leaves no doubt. So the background motion of censure against the Minister of Finance did its work on a temporary basis. It created another breakthrough of artificial turbulence, of what we are accustomed to and know that they are separating the former Prime Minister - the SYRIZA world very doubtful - in order to stimulate its declining audience. What's left of it, of course. Fifteen months away from the chair of power produces absolutely no political event. If combined with the endogenous theme of SYRIZA as an Opposition, which is thought to be labored, then the problem is exacerbated. The hard, diligent, time-consuming work demanded by the Greek people by the opposition parties to provide processed, comprehensive, costly counter-proposals as alternatives to government policies. But where's time for that? Especially when in the mind of the former Prime Minister the same result can be achieved with a fireplace in time. This has been done with the motion of censure under the bankruptcy code bill. Not that it was Mr. Stauras' fault. But how can he deny some oxygen, a few more flashes, some television time and space, a little illusion of supremacy that everyone is drawing up behind his proposal? Ladies and gentlemen, for three days, tears have been shed by both the Government and the Civic Opposition. tears about the difficult national context with Turkish intensification of aggression, with the outbreak of the second wave of COVID with the nightmare of the growing economic recession. However, such a shameful burden of responsibility prevented New Democracy from bringing about a bill tombstone for thousands of our fellow citizens and businesses, and SYRIZA's denounces everything that as a government has been implemented effectively, to forget their past and to blur water. A common denominator in both the proposition of their narrow border ideological priorities with the result that the tear indifference for the citizens and the Greek society occurred. In such a critical bill, which breaks the middle-class for the benefit of the thousands of people who have been killed and saved by the fallout of the Greek taxpayer banks, SYRIZA has found the time to do its part. It has trampled on the work of all colleagues, particularly the Members of the Minor Reform Party, who have tried with arguments, with examples of undoing the unacceptable bill, highlighting the inefficiency and inefficiency of the government and, in any case, to table a substantial proposal. SYRIZA comes in, moves as always to the tutorial, interrupts the conversation, changes the agenda and believes that Mr. Tsipra's frozen smile will steal the show once again. Well, no. You have not de-orientated any of us from this debate. We've lived through the rigging past. The present and future are asking for answers and suggestions, which have no difficult truths, which have not been said. The new bankruptcy code is indeed at an extremely difficult time for the country. The landscape in our national issues, in the economy, in society has deteriorated. The future seems uncertain, the coming winter scary. See what the Bank of Greece's report says: Red loans exceed 40%. The Krone crisis creates new loans of 8-10 billion. Work relationships in degradation. The fall of the cigarette in the market is 50 billion. The recession is close to 10%. The first residence, not a reason, is not protected. The multi-purpose "GEYRA" program leaves thousands of weak borrowers unprotected, unable to meet the requirements of the banks. These are the sad data. This is the current situation, and yet the government burns the last expectations of Greeks to the neck, it also burns the latest possibilities of proper legislation. That is why the vast majority of all those involved in the proceedings as stakeholders have been formulated in every way and in every sense strong reservations and serious disagreements in a number of provisions. While the whole of Europe is geared towards the resolution of sustainable businesses and the liquidation of non-viable businesses, the government looks elsewhere. And provocatively in the title has the words'second chance'. How stimulus it sounds when the second chance is not about the trunk of the Greek economy, nor about the businessman, nor about his normal reintegration into economic activity. Others definitely do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government, for the first time, you give insolence to natural persons. You present them as if they were being awarded a celibacy to the world that in his despair of the works and the days of the incomprehensible politics of Tsipras and his company believed you. You come and identify the needs of a household with those of a business. You are unheard of the family man who loses his home with the bankrupt dealer. And in the end you're drowning both. Examples too much. One I will tell you: "I can't afford my loan", "I've paid half the value..."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u83	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, complete. Respect the next speakers as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u84	Give me a minute. I have to finish. So you give me the opportunity to spend twelve years in a house that is no longer mine. He's in the bank. So if I can't pay back the twelfth year, then this house comes and is sold at the commercial price at that moment. Which means everything that I've paid in loan instalments and what I've paid 12 years is going for faith and for a bank. Ladies and gentlemen, strategic poor payers are long-term and will continue to exist. Those who do not exist will be the thousands of debtors to whom no housing protection is offered, no second chance is offered. What do you give them? A new beginning of poverty, a new beginning of bluntness. You're draining their economies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u85	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u86	The two teammates, New Democracy and SYRIZA, with the gladiator's uniform, can continue to be mocked in the aprons of Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u87	Mrs. Kefalidou, please. I'll turn you off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u88	But we who have not chewed up our words, we who dared to be the unpleasant of modern history with bitter truths and difficult decisions about the future of this country, we with the assumptions of our errors and with hard self-criticism that others have not dared, we will continue to speak the language of reason, truth and concern for every citizen of the country who will not allow us to stay back on the altar for the well-known few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u89	Next speaker, Mr. Sedetakis. Mr. Famelos will be followed. After Mr. Famelo, the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if populism is the attempt at emotional manipulation of public opinion with fragmentary images, fragments, arson slogans, the motion of censure we are debating today is precisely that. What is the main argument put forward by SYRIZA to make a motion of censure, not to the government, which decides to bring the new bankruptcy code paradoxically, but to the person of the Minister of Finance, who implements government policy? That the protection of the first residence is over, that the world is falling apart, that the properties of the Greeks go into the hands of the bankers. If you make it look, it's really scary. To make it even more fancy, they add: "The neoliberal, socially abstract government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis throw the world on the road". And the arson slogan comes to close the account: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Apart from untreated populism, however, SYRIZA also suffers from heterogeneism. Let me get this out of the antimony SYRIZA, let me get this straight. But the SYRIZA who has been ruling for four and a half years is really beyond me. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the same people who have proved unable to deactivate the time bomb called 'private debt' are the same who have practically liberated the protection of the first residence, for which they are now being cut. They are the same who gave green light to the funds to buy red loans. They are the same ones who said that debtors should pay banks for development purposes. If they did have elementary social sensitivity, if they were really interested in the homes of the cosmaki, they would have to set off the "time bomb" that threatens to blow our economy out of the air, one more reason today that the COVID pandemic -19 brings up - down. They should have 'plate' to come out of the'spirit' of eternal debts by so many and so many of our fellow citizens who suffer from burdens that were perhaps created without their responsibility. The social sensitivity that has now been reconstructed is a hypocrisy cover. And if so far the citizens have understood their populism, today they understand their cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not imagine that these people were so cynical to keep millions of fellow citizens hostage, to have them owed themselves to banks and state, to never allow them to make a new start and, above all, to make fun of them as they are supposedly protecting them. I can, however, believe that they were incapable of solving this problem as well as many others. The Government dares to say ‘end’ to deferrals, ‘end’ to extensions, ‘end’ to imperfect legislation, which transfers the ‘hot potato’ to the next, narrating the future of the economy. A totality of regulations and procedures, allowing creditors and debtors to reach a realistic and mutually beneficial compromise. Of course, it's funny to think he'll get people out of his homes. Not only does it unleash our vulnerable and weak fellow citizens, but it also protects them and supports them. So, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, don't pay off the disaster. Scenes like Spain, Greece, New Democracy, we won't do you a favor. Ladies and gentlemen, the massive piece of legislation was a commendable effort by Christos Stakoura and his colleagues and will be voted after the motion of censure on his face. Its legislative aspects relate mainly to experts. The citizens are concerned with his logic. And this is a different and revolutionary logic for European data. This is the second opportunity for a new start to those who have failed, whether at their own risk or because of the crisis. As a freelance professional, I know how important this is for many of my fellow citizens, but also for a professional and entrepreneurial logic that promotes growth and prosperity. Failure, as soon as it does not occur, is in life and is often teaching, can also be ransoming. But it cannot be the one who attempted and failed to punish himself for life, not only because he lacks the ability in a second chance, but also because the message to society is the unresolved one: 'Don't businesses, so that you don't fail, so that you don't get punished'. So we're not going forward. The exemption, the deletion of the debtor's debts, which occurs automatically three years after bankruptcy, is the lowest in Europe and is the seismic one, for which much has been done in the past. It is, however, also a tool, an incentive for mutual compromises, which some aspects have so far avoided. The discharge will give them the opportunity to re-market, rebuild the properties they have lost. The second opportunity for each of them is an important opportunity for the country and we must not let it go lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Famelos Socrates has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance tables a motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance to stop blocking, but also to highlight the rampant property of the citizens that the Mitsotakis Government is manipulating through the Banking Code. The bill loses the ownership of the first residence, liquidates the entire property, but also the future income of the debtors, works at the expense of entrepreneurship, but for the benefit of a bank elite. Isn't that enough for a motion of censure? Don't ask yourself which elite. It's the same elite that for you it erased 500 million of shipowners' loans. It is the same elite that, for the last eight months, gave you 50% of the bank lending to only six companies, according to data from the Bank of Greece. But it's the same elite you're trying to memorize for the loans of your parties and the media, which you had "with air" give when you were government. Are these just the expressions of Mr. Stakoura's anti-popular policy? No, of course not. He's the same person who didn't see a recession, and when he saw it, he didn't put it in the budget. He's the same person who didn't see a surplus, and when he saw it, he didn't give it to the economy. It is the same who licensed the funds in 2015, because it contributed to the country's bankruptcy and it is the same that in its calculation, with its own figures, it makes 10% more richer than only the citizens and 90% poorer. The bill you bring to the Banking Code is a contract that you have with elite, corruption and coexistence and apply it with authoritarianism, with the fourteen years in prison and the Rabbit and the Pope leaving, with the hooding of the file of "NOVARTIS", which burns you, with the change of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor, but also with a "good" propaganda mechanism. Let's not hide it. By command from your director, the media operates more fanatical than the New Democracy press office, distorting reality, misinforming, maintaining the anti-SYRIZA front and enchanting the tragic situation you have brought Greece with incredibly ridiculous and superfluous excuses. What are your arguments? SYRIZA - says - cut off the protection of first residence. Then, why, Mr Staikoura, in the institution report in November 2019 do you commit yourself to ensuring the free enforcement of all security, including first residence, and you are coming back in February 2020 and you commit that the protection of first residence will be resolved in April 2020? Do the institutions have you stop protecting your first residence while there isn't? Lie! There is protection of the first residence, and you are being disproved by the institutions. Now, will you tell me why all the Members of Parliament do not read the institution reports, but the fake non paper that Mr Stagioras gave them? You were caught by Mr. Chrysochoidis. You no longer read what the institutions give you. You think because they're your friends, they're not gonna write the truth. Second argument: "This critical period did you find yourself reproaching?" Please ask Mr. Voridis first. Eventually, were Greece's sovereign rights violated? Maybe not. Also, should you ask Mr. Petssas those sanctions that were "banging" why were not submitted to the Chancellorship, which publicly stated that they were not imposed? And after you have made it clear that the right to national sovereignty is populism, you should come and talk to us. On the other hand, you're 'handing' us because at this difficult time of pandemic, we're putting a question of reproach and you're not wondering why in this difficult period of health and social crisis, you're obliging us to protect our first residence with a motion of censure, because you're going to rid this right of the Greeks. Over 80% of Greek companies are affected and you have a plan through this bill to go bankrupt with a large number of businesses and individuals. Third argument. But aren't we going to target the poor payers? Let me go over the fact that this is how you incriminate entrepreneurship for the bankruptcy of the country you created, to ask something. I'm sorry, isn't New Democracy a strategic bad-payer? Isn't your unpaid loans increased every year and is it already over 300 million? And let's say something else. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis isn't a strategic badge? Has it not had more than ten years of unpaid loan from the "Cryka Chania" over 300,000 euros and it has become 700,000 and it has been revealed when we did a committee of inquiry and Piraeus Bank has been mobilised after our own committee of inquiry? Who are the cops after all? Is he in your party? We call it clear. We don't forget canalarchs' air loans. Your children, the pimps of all kinds, are strategic badges, because you taught them to live parasitic, stateless and unconscious. Only truths in here! And they put us in the new one. Interinstitutional issues must be resolved with the motion of censure. This shows your perception of politics. Because all your career is just your chair, you think everything is internally playable. That is, the need for society you never have in front of. You'll never deal with society. Well, we'll tell you clearly. It was a popular and social obligation and a responsibility to make a motion of censure, to raise an issue that you have buried, with the Pecha list, with the advertising tax, with the arrangements for canalarchs, with the second list. Let's just say it. The basic strategy of the New Democracy is propaganda to make the bracelet from behind. And the mess is the monopoly on the natural gas network, the abolition of the rule of law by abolishing forest maps, the sale of public property, the cartel on energy that leads only to over-profit suppliers, the bankruptcy of the special account for RES and green energy, the collapse of all environmental functions to make Golden Boys parties, as Mr Stakoras well knows, what has happened so many years in LARCO. On the other hand, one-sided, suffocation in the briefing. ERT and the Athenian Agency are run by Maximos. The EPP is not working, the Constitution is not being observed and the ERT is being unreliable. The set of today's headlines shows the information cartel you want to set up. Your goal is a virtual reality. You do not give a damn about pluralism or pluralism, despite the fact that they are fundamental elements of the society, even though they are a guardian of democracy. This is a major political issue that you are creating in the country. It serves extreme political control purposes. Because you have a civil manipulation plan, a plan corresponding to the worst times on the right of 1950. And this panorama in your briefing creates an insolence that leads to you not having a foreign policy strategy where you need to unite your mind to build something for our country. For all these reasons, it is necessary to vote on the reproach and take advantage of every level of political and social action and at the social and business level, so that this poverty policy is not implemented, in order to protect your first residence, in order to break down your own power cartel, in order to bring about progressive governance in Greece. That is why I am voting for a fair reproach against the Finance Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u93	Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would try to answer some of what has been said, but I honestly did not understand much. But I get one thing. The submission of a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance by the Party of Officers is empty meaning, void content and vacant logic. Why I do not really understand how the party that, as a government, had abolished the absolute status of first home protection and released electronic auctions from May 2017, comes today and gives reproach to the Minister of Finance, forgetting so easily and so hypocritically what he had done as a government. I will render it to the need for some movement of impression, but untimely and unpleasant, to reverse the impressions of public opinion still rejecting the resolution of the SYRIZA, even as an Opposition. Because society is not very moved - elsewhere, of course, its attention - and why society and the world have other problems. This is a timeless move, because we are now being called upon to face as a society, as a country and as a nation a very serious, very dangerous, unprecedented double challenge and threat. On the one hand, the health risk of Turkey's pandemic test, including the resistance of the world economy and, on the other, the increasing, revitalising, violating and aggressive behaviour of Turkey, through which peace and stability are being tested in the wider region, but also directly threatening our sovereign rights. It is a behaviour which, as we have seen in the past few days, reaches the limits of the foreigner. You know that a few days ago Turkey quickly adopted the proposal of the NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, to cancel some military exercises during national holidays. We, in good faith, accepted this proposal and the next day Turkey was exposed to the eyes of all the allies and the Secretary-General, moving to NAVTEX, who have announced military exercises in the wider region. In this environment of geopolitical liquidity and complex challenges and security threats, Greece stands up and is shown to be an estimated player with proven success. Last March we successfully faced the first wave of pandemic, but also another wave of illegal immigration in Evros, in terms of organised attempted invasion, with Turkey's unresolved and organised support. It was a wave that failed, however, thanks to our also organized and decisive response. Since then, the Armed Forces of the country have remained in fact under a system of prolonged readiness in Evros, but also in the Aegean, during the recent period. They have shown through a universal again unprecedented mobilization that they have nothing to fear and no one and that Greece and the Greeks can feel safe. At the same time, however, our urgent task of boosting and strengthening the National Defence has emerged. As I have repeatedly pointed out, this attempt is moving and is based on two main axes: The first is the strengthening and deepening of the country's international alliances, through our role in the European Union, NATO and the wider geopolitical environment of the Eastern Mediterranean, and of course, at the core of the possibilities offered by defence diplomacy. The strengthening of the strategic relationship with the United States of America through the provisions of the revised Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement, the stimulation of the strategic relationship with France, the approach to countries such as Israel and other Arab world such as Egypt, the United Arab Emirates which share the same concerns as us, in terms of the security and stability of the Eastern Mediterranean, are some tangible results of this effort. The second, however, and particularly critical, level, is the strengthening of the deterrent power of the Armed Forces by means and staff support. It has to do with the first axis, because the upgraded alliances, among other things, provide additional opportunities for strengthening the Armed Forces. The effort is lasting. Now it's getting more intensive because that's what the circumstances require. It is without fanatics, without many words, with a lot of work and in a spirit of excellent cooperation between the political and military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, under the guidance and coordination of the Prime Minister. The aim is to increase the operational capabilities of the Armed Forces by improving the support and upgrading of existing armed systems, through the acquisition of new systems with the maximum cost-benefit ratio and operational benefits, through strengthening the infrastructure, through reorganisation in terms of revitalization, I would say, of the domestic defence industry. With levers of international cooperation and synergies in the production of systems, this plan is unfolding day by day. Two words about armaments. I understand that that is where the great interest is focused. Perhaps for the first time, in the context of an organized and intensive effort, the three General Staff, under the coordination of the HNDGS and in accordance with the political leadership guidelines of the Ministry and Prime Minister, promotes an appropriate, prestigious and costly armaments program that meets the needs of the Armed Forces within 15 years. This programme was agreed by the Ministry's political and military leadership in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. You understand why I have an additional reason to support the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, which strengthens the country's defence budget. The Prime Minister has been presented with an approach for approval, adopted and now implemented. These are a hundred and seven sub-programmes, others ready for funding, others already financed, others ready for compromise, others already compatible with the implementation of all three branches of the Armed Forces and signal the beginning of the new era for the country's Armed Forces. These seven sub-programmes were the product of fierce planning, work and cooperation months from political and military leadership and mark the end of a period of inertia and delays at all levels. About 90% of these are related to the maintenance, support and upgrading of existing and existing systems, the remaining more costly by adding new ones. To this end, and with the Prime Minister's decision, the budget for defence expenditure - we will see it further in the budget debate - is dramatically strengthened after many years. For 2021 in the preliminary draft of the 530 million a year planned so far, we will go up to over two billion for the country's defence expenditure. In accelerating the main interventions and armaments with the greatest time economy I can have, I would remind you that in December 2019 the House signed and passed the framework agreement, then supporting the aircraft Mirage 2000-5. The implementing agreements were signed and have therefore entered into force since last October. Already the first spare parts, which had to come from 2012 for these aircraft, have come to the degrees, are placed in the Mirage. We already have two additional aircraft in the air force available and at a rate of one to two months we will reach the desired goal of twenty-four available Mirage 2000-5 with all their weapons. Alongside the same law, eighty-seven F-16 aircraft are already being modernised in Viper type, which is the most advanced version of this aircraft worldwide. The EBRD is granted financially through the financial compensatory aid amounting to 280 million. In May 2020, two unmanned Israeli-built vehicles were set up together with the ground inspection station. The staff are already trained where they are going to attempt. Of course, education concerns all three sectors. In June 2020, we received the last, during the programme, torpedo from the shipyards of Elefsina, after accelerating their construction programme and building them from there. And the last one, which has already been launched, will be received in 2021. Also, in July 2020, the transnational agreement with the USA was signed for the subsequent support of helicopters of the S70 Navy, but also for the supply of four new Romeo helicopters, the best anti-corruption helicopters in the world at this time. At the moment the Ministry's services are working on the amending agreement on the timetable for payments and delivery, so that we can have some of these helicopters as soon as possible, perhaps in 2021, of course in 2022. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The case of the acquisition and upgrading of new torpedoes is in the KYSEA. It has already been decided on the activation of the sub-programme and the next few days negotiations with the construction company will begin to complete this. The four new wells, which are to be acquired by the Navy, are in the process of evaluating the proposals from the staff, so that the proposal that is to be adopted for political leadership can be submitted to this programme as well. Alongside modernising the four MEKO type brakes, the activation process of this sub-programme has already begun. As of September 2020, the decision to purchase eighteen Rafale aircraft from the manufacturer of the company, ‘DASSAULT’, has been taken. Consultations have already begun with regard to the preparation and implementation of the contract that we will bring by law by the end of the year to the Greek Parliament, while a French delegation is negotiating with the Air Force with the details of the implementation and receipt of some of these aircraft as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u95	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u96	There's a lot of things I want to say. I am not going to say enough, Mr President, that I shall go into two points as well. I'm continuing with the theme of the new procurement law in the Armed Forces. The draft submitted to the Government Secretariat will soon come to the consultation and is expected to be legislated, that is to say, by law to come to the House for a vote in the next month. I think it is an intervention, which will help supplies to defence spending towards ensuring transparency together with speed and efficiency. I would remind you that it has recently been approved by the committee responsible and the draft new administration and forces structure 2020-2034, which opens the way to modernising the Armed Forces in the new era. I'll say something about the staff, and I'll be done. In previous years the recruitment of new personnel to the Armed Forces had been limited to the absolutely necessary admission of students to the productive schools of officers. There was no provision for low-level recruitment. We have dealt with the problem, we have already hired a thousand short-class soldiers, we have increased by five hundred and sixteen people in productive schools, tomorrow's officers and officers, who will only serve critical specialties, especially in the Navy and the Air Force, and we are hiring another six hundred professional soldiers and a thousand short-class gunmen only for the year 2021. The Prime Minister has announced the imminent increase in term. For those who are going to talk about political costs, I will answer that sometimes a political decision is preferable rather than a national decision. At the moment, too, the national cheque requires that units be strengthened into an inspiring force. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in his long history, Hellenism has suffered disasters and has erupted triumphs. In a few days' time we will celebrate, more moderately because of the circumstances, on the anniversary of October 28th. A lot will be said. I wanted to remind you that in October 1940 Greece reached one of its historic triumphs because it combined cumulatively three elements: determined political leadership to resist the invaders, strong and well prepared to defend our sovereign rights of Armed Forces and a high national mind. Today, however, Greece has a strong political leadership. This has been demonstrated in the management of the major 2020 crises. The Greek people recognize it, accepted the effort, the result and acceptance are reflected in the measurements. Today Greece has powerful Armed Forces and with great deterrent power with quality, morality and professionalism. This has been demonstrated in the management of the 2020 major crises, in Evros in spring, in the Aegean Sea in the summer and will prove again wherever and whenever required in the future. The effort for even stronger Armed Forces in means and personnel is evolving, intensified, results. And today I believe that the Greek people have a national attitude, they are aware of the juncture. It is necessary, however, - and I close and thank you for the tolerance - that the political leadership of the place across all the political forces contribute to this strengthening of the national mind, to providing good services to the difficult national effort. It would be a good job to be all of us leadership, political forces and people assembled in the great national effort under difficult conditions, conditions that have not appeared in the past, a global health risk and a dangerous destabilising force that threatens our direct and firm and sovereign rights in the region and our national laws. I believe that this move of the Officerial Response right now raises a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance to win some impressions in the political game or to prove that it has a reason to exist as Response does not help the national effort in this critical turning that we are going through as a country. Of course I am voting against the motion of censure. Of course I support the Minister of Finance and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, which will increase defence spending and thus increase the capabilities of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u97	Mrs Ana Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy, and I would also ask the ministers who are missing or who will follow their speeches, to be consistent in time. I appeal to you to warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, the two Ministers, the Foreign and Defence Ministers, precisely because of the juncture, had to have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u99	Yeah, every ministry has an important portfolio. Now don't argue with that. The Minister was to speak for nine minutes, he was given more than 50% of time, and he actually took time from a Member, if you want us to put things right. As to whether what the ministers say is really interesting, of course it is particularly about the Minister of Defence, which is why the Bureau has given the floor. But not even the Bureau listens to it and immediately to a request from the Bureau that the ministers should be consistent in time and also with the Members of Parliament taking the 'attack' of the Bureau! Please. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I too would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u102	Because I have given the floor to Mrs Karamanlis and she has already gone to Stepma to follow your position after hers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u103	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u104	Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the same must apply to everyone. When Mr Flamouraris, who is a mere MP yesterday, spoke nine minutes, it makes sense that Mr Panagiotopoulos should speak for fourteen minutes. So we are not messing with you and the Bureau, but we have much more important to hear from a minister than a mere Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u106	Each Member has to contribute, offer, submit opinions on policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u107	Why did Mr Tsipras choose to table a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance at this time? What was the appropriate juncture as, at this time, the country faces major exogenous challenges, such as Turkey's arbitrary and multiple illegal movements and the new wave of the coronary? We say: did what is reflected in the polls showing that the party of Officerial Opposition is falling below the 20% psychological limit, pushing Mr. Tsipras to table the motion of censure? Was it an impression move? The Civic Opposition afflicted by internal problems and daily comrade stabbing is disappointing even the core of its electoral base. This is a despair move by Mr Tsipras because he is in a opposition way and faced with serious internal problems, he tries to achieve a temporary settlement of his Members, aiming at the Minister for Finance. It thus clamps on an act of irresponsible irresponsibility. Have we forgotten that it is the same one with the third and unnecessarily important memorandum that he brought in 2015 into the protection of the first residence date at the end of 2018, how is it his government that established electronic auctions and how is the Tsipras government that in November 2017 brought an amendment for self-determination and self-determination for those who prevented electronic auctions? Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, what is it doing and how does it contribute to improving the position of particularly vulnerable social groups by giving them a second chance to re-activate being free from previous accumulated debts? The protection of the first residence is now established as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, which has not already existed since February 2019 as it was abolished by law of SYRIZA. A comprehensive solution is provided to the problem of overcompensation of households by establishing an out-of-court mechanism, with repayment in instalments for debt to banks, loan managers and public authorities. This process provides a favourable and long-term sustainable debt settlement to natural and legal persons. State subsidy is granted for the first residence of vulnerable households for five years, helping the debtor to meet the overall debt adjustment and to save his or her assets. SYRIZA has introduced electronic auctions. From the "no house in the hands of a banker" and the "science" we have passed that electronic auctions are important, not only to have good banks, but also for development and social reasons, as Mr Tsakalotos said. The crucial issue, ladies and gentlemen, is that auctions should take place where there really are strategic bad payers, creating a safety net for those who really have a weakness. With regard to which legislation is desirable for the banking system, it can be judged by every citizen from the public positions of the banks. The banks were positive for the SYRIZA bill and are sceptical on several points about the government's bill. It turns out that who really rescues the citizen and who willingly or unintentionally has led him to a deadlock, who is trying to modernise the framework of debt regulation, to protect the debtors of vulnerable households and not give a second chance to strategic malpractices, who is not consumed with impressive ease in slogans of the type "no house in the hands of a banker" by conducting auctions and confiscations. And to remind SYRIZA that millions of confiscations of accounts were issued by both banks and the public, because there were no viable solutions for private debt. With this bill, we provide a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households and a real second chance for the debtor to start without debt. The world, ladies and gentlemen, sees how, with our daily interventions, we support its life in difficult times for the country and leaves in the margins of history those who, instead of exercising the constitutionally guaranteed role of counter-population and contribute substantially to improving the daily lives of the citizens, try with "nuclear artifacts" and movements of extreme micro-political feasibility to solve their internal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis, and the consistency in time. Mr Ragossi, you have asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u109	Mr Panagiotopoulos, we were not going to ask to speak after your speech because we had discounted - but unfortunately it seems that we were wrong - that you will make a speech today as Minister of National Defence in these critical circumstances and not as a New Democracy MEP who is opposing the Civic Opposition. Today, Mr Panagiotopoulos, you chose at the end of your speech to make a strong attack on Civic Anti-Civilization, to us, that is, essentially move our finger. You have not found a second in your speech to send a message to Turkey, and if someone will see what is taking place in our territorial waters in the last few weeks, in our potential territorial waters - to answer - as well as in the country's potential EEZ and read this speech here of the country's Minister of National Defence will be surprised, Mr Panayotopoulos, and will consider it an unscrupulous complacency, which cannot have space and time in these critical circumstances. That is why, Mr Panayotopoulos, we would ask you very much to think again about what your obligations as government are and what you have as government and vis-à-vis the national Parliament. As you know, there are major questions, questions that exist here among colleagues, when they saw you come to the Chamber and immediately asked: will the Minister of National Defence tell today what will our country do if a drill is entered within 12 miles? So, Mr Panayotopoulos, these are very serious issues which come after a crescendo of irresponsibility among your fellow ministers like yesterday, Mr Chrysochoidis, who came to us and told us here that it is nationalism 12 miles - is nationalism 12 miles for the Armed Forces, Mr Panayotopoulos, yes or no? Please answer, if you take the floor, for all of these reasons, and so many others I do not want to mention now, in order not to take any time from my colleagues, it is very important that you come to the committee responsible as soon as possible. If you consider that there should also be confidential briefings, that there should be confidential briefings, because on the day you have chosen here, Mr Panayotopoulos, you should speak as MP Kavala of the New Republic, Oruts Race, in the potential territorial waters of our country, that is to say within the potential borders of our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u112	Minister, wait a minute. You'll answer, you'll have time. It is simply because Mr Heitas, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, obviously asked for the floor for the same reason, to listen to all the Members of Parliament and to reply in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u113	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Not a minute. You will respond in total, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u114	Just a minute, Mr President, let me answer! I've got to answer in a row, because I guess there'll be more things to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u115	But it could be the same questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u116	But don't you understand what I'm saying to you? You obviously want to place yourself, Mr Heta, on the basis of what has been said by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u117	I'd have asked my question already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u118	All right, you got a minute. Make your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u119	Mr Panayotopoulos, you have said and we all agree that our sovereign rights are directly threatened. There is no doubt that this is happening. I would therefore like to say in this context that at the same time you are asking all of us to contribute to the national attitude. They are your words that I have noted and there is also no disagreement on. Why, despite our good will, which we have shown in fact, we must not make suggestions to the opposition parties, but must make suggestions and observations to government officials who - with a naive way of doing so? In order to achieve something? to give the signal that this will be the attitude we're going to hold? - make statements which at least lead to a first phase of ice cream and a second phase to huge questions. We therefore want you to answer here today if it is nationalism at 12 nautical miles. I would also like to say to you, Mr Panayotopoulos, that it was unfortunate to compare with what we will be celebrating tomorrow - without parades, Mr Panayotopoulos - on 28 October. Because you compare completely unparalleled things. No relationship between what they achieved then and today. I am not talking about the integrity of the Armed Forces and their attitude. We trust them perfectly. I'm talking about politicians. And thirdly, to confirm or deny that there was indeed a meeting between Mr Mitsotakis and the Heads of State or Government, GEN, and you were absent. Also, Mr Panayotopoulos, in what I said before, a statement by Erdogan against Macron and declared the ideological and semantic, if you wish, war against Turkey. What else does Greece have to expect, which, for two months now, has basically been receiving a national rape from 'Orutch Race', so that we can react and take some measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u120	Good. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u121	As regards what I have heard from Mr Ragosi, I can only explain it by saying that he must not have listened to my speech. You must not hear her say that, I said nothing about Turkey, I did not show any message outwards. Also, it really impresses, ladies and gentlemen, the turn of a party that some time ago with its Chief claimed that there are no sea borders and today it comes and adores the Government to extend the territorial waters to 12 miles... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...when this has already been announced by the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u122	What's this? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u123	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u124	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u125	...and in any case right now is a potential sovereign right. And as you can see, the protection sphere covered by the Armed Forces does not contain potential sovereign rights, but absolutely. Therefore, it is the protection sphere that has been described. I would like to reply to Mr Heta why he raised the issue of the famous meeting of the Heads with the Prime Minister at the Maximos Mansion last Monday. Yeah, it's done. I was aware of her. I was present in Thessaloniki for reasons relating to the exercise of my duties. I do not think it is unreasonable, given that there has been prior information on both sides, that this meeting should arise, in order to provide answers to some technical issues concerning the movements of the 'Oruts Race' and the Turkish fleet in the region and also to inform the Prime Minister about the large arms programmes run by the Air Force and the Navy. Therefore, I do not understand why this attempt to exploit it because I was absent from this meeting in my knowledge that cooperation with the military leadership of the Armed Forces, the Chief of HNDGS, the Heads of Staff. She's excellent. It is reflected in the work produced, I want to believe. Of course, in the direction and direction of the Prime Minister, this is progressing smoothly for the benefit of the Armed Forces and national security. As far as the parade of 28 October is concerned, we are going through an unprecedented period of health risk. The decision not to parade has been taken with a great sense of responsibility. But that does not mean that the Armed Forces will not declare their presence to the whole country. Ten planes, dozens of aircraft have already been scheduled over Greece, as was the case last year. We need to adapt to these conditions, not because we want it, not because we want it, but because that is why the proper and responsible treatment of this economic risk is being imposed. This is the point of taking all these measures, especially when this risk is already manifested in the second - much more serious than its previous - phase of upheaval. This is the point and it is good that we do not make any other thoughts about the abolition of these events this year, until the conditions allow us to go back out and rejoice with the Armed Forces to parade throughout Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Ragossi, what exactly do you want? Wait a minute, please warmly. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u128	Wait a minute, Mr. President. First of all, you should know, Mr Panayotopoulos, that because everything you say and everything we say in the Minutes and stay, I imagine horrors would have heard you a moment ago by the Members of the New Democracy call the expressly recognised right by the International Sea Law of the extension of the yacht zone to 12 miles as a potential sovereign right. This position is unacceptable! You have to call it off! It hurts our national interests! It is an inalienable right, explicitly recognised, that it is not a potential sovereign right to expand whenever we judge the seabed at 12 miles. You described this as a potential sovereign right. Or you don't know what you said or did wrong - that's what we want to hope - and fix it. And secondly, Mr Panayotopoulos, you have explicitly confirmed everything we have told you a moment ago by the Greek Party. It is disgraceful to say about the Chief of Officership and Prime Minister of Greece in previous years that he has expressed the position that Greece has no maritime borders. It's a disgrace to you and you need to call it back... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] ...in particular, when you are the Minister of National Defence for the days of which the "Orutch Race" is within 12 miles. Why Mr. Tsipras, to whom you referred, Mr. Panayotopoulos, in 2018 defended the country's maritime borders and banned "Oruts Race" once he stepped on the miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u129	Mr Bougas has been asked for the floor from the New Democracy. Mr Buga, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I will not trouble you. First of all, I would like to say to my SYRIZA colleagues that high tones are not allowed at such times. Secondly, Mr Ragosi, the Minister for National Defence does not need to send a message again. The message is sent daily by him, but also by the country's Armed Forces. The message is clear and such statements and expressions like the ones you said before that "Orutch Race" tells you to know that they show a lack of basic respect, not to Parliament and the Government, but to the men and women of the Armed Forces who for so many months have been erecting walls in the Aegean. You must respect them, and you must show them that you do not respect what you are saying. To finish, Mr President, the right to extend territorial waters to 12 nautical miles is an inalienable right of the country under international law. This has been said to all tons by the country's own Prime Minister. It does not need every little bit of it because they are asking to self-confirm the opposition of the SYRIZA Members to confirm it. It's said. However, what we are pointing out is that you who are now asking to extend our territorial waters to twelve miles do not do so from an interest in the protection of sovereign rights. Pretend that this is your motive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u131	What are you talking about, Mr. Comrade? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u132	Leave what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u133	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u134	In fact, you do, so you can save yourself from what you have come from, that is, an opposition impotence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u135	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u136	...and a presence, unfortunately, which is not worthy of the party of Officerial Opposition in Parliament in a motion of censure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u137	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u138	To continue the debate, Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to decide on a proposal that for purely micro-participatory designs has been tabled during the most difficult period in the country, with the Turkish provocativeness of no further and the global health crisis in a constant threat. Why did the Qualified Opposition do that? But, in order to disorientate public opinion from the seriousness, responsibility and effectiveness with which the government and, above all, the Prime Minister, are dealing with these critical national issues. Ladies and gentlemen, in any event from this Step I had pointed out that private debt is more than state-owned a time bomb on the foundations of our economy. And this is where a government and a minister are starting the first serious, great step towards dealing with this thorny problem, the private debt, which exceeds 230 billion, which, by changing bankruptcy law, brings forth a major reform of a new impetus to the recovery of economic activity and the decapitation of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens from drowning, deadlocked situations. This is why, instead of having to take a constructive stand on a serious counter-proposal or, if necessary, on a motion of censure, on behalf of its institutional role. Who's in doubt? Those who should be apologising today, because as a government and as of 2015 they were the first to lift the protection of first homes - they instituted it in autumn 2019 - establishing electronic auctions, self-determination and self-determination for those who reacted, who hit small classes, professionals and households with taxes, contributions and rafts. They are the ones who are calling the government because from the early days they have made tax and contribution reductions, an increase in income available and, more generally, in areas which guarantee a developmental orbit. They are coming today and they are blamed by a Minister of Finance, who in the fifteen months of his term has already brought fourteen serious legislation to the House and who is now trying to break the abscession of private debt, finally putting a class in the Banking Law of private individuals and businesses. They attempt, in other words, to meddle a government and a minister who, after five years, gave farmers compensation for the embargo, which, on the Prime Minister's mandate, for the first time since 2010 gave thirty-five million to ELGA, and which also gives state budget support of 20% of the Agency's revenues, i.e. 70 million for 2018 and 2019. There is a minister who gave the extended and increased oil allowance there, that is, where the SYRIZA government increased the special tax by 22% and the VAT on oil again from 14% to 24%, a minister who legislated the import tax rate to 9%, which the government had ejected from 13%, who received it, to 22% to 42%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more than obvious that the purely party targeting of the Officerial Response. It seeks - although in vain - to cover not only its self-proof weakness, which, as a government, could not solve the burning problems of the economy, but also the dramatic impasses to which it led to productive classes and citizens with its unresolved policy, as well as to avoid revealing to the public that it has neither a programme nor a plan for outlets and solutions to the crucial problems of the country. Furthermore, with the empirically incomprehensible, even for its voters, a motion of censure attempts to be caught by a despaired board, to be enclaved from its own inner-party, crisp dead ends. However, from a party that cannot put its own house in order, it cannot be hoped that an entire people will have the ability to give solutions to their own crucial problems. The vote against the motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, and the support of the Finance Minister's bill, is a one-way for those who perceive the criticality of the private debt problem and, finally, seek a clear, thorough, clear, fair solution to all those who do not seek regression and maliciousness, but new horizons and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u140	We thank Mr Karasmanis and his consistency in terms of time. Mr Tsipras Georgios from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties are accused of saying other things before the elections - some parties - and others do later. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will remain in the history of post-multipleism as the government that tells most lies while it is government. You are a virtual reality government that set up the controlled media, more controlled than ever. And only this dreadful permanent hammering inside and outside the House confirms it. I do not know exactly which company guides you in this disgusting tactic, but this practice exists, it is a science whole and has a name - the 'RAND CORPORTION', a well-known American company, calls it 'false with the manica' - and consists of a simple reasoning: the bombing of the public with an unstoppable flow of disinformation and false. It requires only two things: one is the shameful will to be able to keep lying - you probably have that - and the second, a overwhelming superiority and possession of many communications channels that will say the same lie every time. And you've got that and there's no other governments in the west. You started in July 2019 with the fact that you only came out of government, the economy took off. You continued and said it July, August, September and all in the autumn and in winter, while your economic ministers were well aware that the main indicators had already taken it down. Why? For you have stopped all public supplies and works to renegotiate to your friends. You continued in the midst of pandemic to praise yourself to avoid the first wave to take dimensions, and the same happened in almost all the Balkans and Eastern Europe, where the dispersion was still small when the lockdown happened almost at the same time. And of course, now that the second wave is shaking, you are not responsible, but individual responsibility. Once the pandemic crisis broke out, your Prime Minister promised public health support. Another lie. You have no intention of strengthening public health at all, and if the pandemic were to end yesterday, why not apply it without the very same thing as you do in the area of first residence and bankruptcy, a highly aggressive, neoliberal programme for private health at the expense of public health. In the pandemic you have only responded to the enormous need for a great increase in the MSF in order to deal with the possible launch of patients who are now in front of us is for next month or two months. You also do almost nothing about means of transport and education. And yet, the government and its friendly means continue to lie that you have taken all the necessary measures in health, in the means of transport, in education, etc. You say to all tons that, at last, Greece has entered the programme of quantitative relaxation, when it is known to everyone, that all countries that were in trouble with pandemic have entered. You continue to say that the programme of financial support through COVID -19 is 24 billion, when the official figures say that over 5.5 billion to 6 billion have not fallen on the market. It's your official record. We have small and medium-sized enterprises squeezing from a lack of liquidity for six months all over the year after March. Other countries such as Italy, Belgium, Portugal take the full risk with 100% guarantees and you continue to get up to 80% of the liquidity guarantee. This means practically that one euro does not reach those who need it. The bankruptcy you have brought shows your whole philosophy of dealing with health and economic crisis. While it is a difficult situation that requires the relaxation of measures and criteria and second and third opportunities, practically for you is an opportunity to speed up restructuring that you had in your programme - the truth is - from the outset to the benefit of the few and at the expense of the many. And while extra measures are being taken throughout Europe that were not in their programmes - for example, in France there were regular auctions, and now there is an auction moratorium - here you come to implement a bankrupt that you had prepared before the pandemic. And it was before the pandemic extremely aggressive. We made a mistake. The bankruptcy you brought is not cut and stitched to the bank measures. If that was the case, it might have been a little better. The bankruptcy you have brought is the answer to the question of a sick brain to a legal office: "What must be done to abolish any right of the debtor and satisfy any claim or will abusive by the bank?" And that's what you've brought. I'll just say two things because everything else has been said. In the bankruptcy process, debtors do not even have the procedural weapons of opposition to the verification of claims, i.e., if what the creditors ask, the banks are as much due. That's unprecedented. Secondly, for someone who has been renting his own house for a 12-year period, if he wishes to buy it before 12 years, he must pay the rent for that purpose too until twelve years have been completed. I don't know if there's any other country in the world that has such a bankrupt. The fact is that such a bankruptcy code does not exist anywhere in Europe, not even in the United States. In the United States, in the man of capitalism, in many states, I inform you, there is an exception to the first residence. The second opportunity is interwoven with the exception of the first residence. They don't take his first residence and rent his house. I come to Greek-Turkish. First of all, let me note that it's impressive. The Foreign Minister, the Minister of National Defence, spoke about the red lines in the Eastern Mediterranean, while there are other ministers who spoke about them. It's completely incomprehensible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. I will not talk about the storm that you have unleashed here. We are moving from a retreat to a retreat on this issue. I will not talk about the thanks of Mr Mitsotakis for the great effort made by the latter to help our neighbouring country join the European Union. But I will say that overpatriots who could not sleep at night in the previous period, because we accepted the language of our neighbours to be called "Macedonian", which we accepted forty years back, now seems to be sleeping very quiet despite the fact that, with your attitude, your own government granted de facto the right to a Turkish seismic research vessel to sulle in an area that Greek legislation considers to be a Greek continental shelf. And some allies and partners who, at the worst of cases, disagree with their waters have allowed them to slap free. This unprecedented concession took place on Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as did the Imias in '96 they became at Costas Simitis. And move from retreat to retreat. At the same time, we have the largest alalum of government on national issues throughout the region. There is no violation of sovereign rights, some government officials say. There is a very clear violation of sovereign rights, says Mr Mitsotakis' security adviser and confirms that the South Summit of countries that you have asked for very late. The seismic activity on a Greek shelf has ceased to be red. There's been a drilling. We have a new red line from some strains to twelve miles. Another red line was six miles. I'm not commenting on it at all. I'll tell you one thing: What exactly was it about saying that it's a red line, the six nautical miles? I am not talking about it being unacceptable. What exactly did he intend to do? What did he win with that? Internally, communication -- if that's all you're interested in -- won. Because there is a world which is not very well-trained - perhaps dealing, he hears that there are red lines and he stays quiet. As far as Turkey is concerned, what did we gain? I'll tell you what we won. We told her that from six miles and then it's a red line. By six miles, however, do what you want. This government which only cares about it is communication because it does have much in its hands, however much it does in the best way, as much as there is here of all the Members of Parliament and its executives who have very close legs to the lies with which they go in the middle of three major crises: geopolitical, health and economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u142	Mrs Catherine Papacosta has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the late interest in Officerial Vice-President, on our maritime borders, leaves us truly insurmountable. On 7 September 2015, your President said: "There are maritime borders and we do not know them?" Let us not, of course, talk about statements by your supporters that the Aegean belongs to its fish. I think this is a glove for Martin Luther King that "nothing in the world is more devastating than sincere ignorance and consciousness of nonsense." For three days now, I have been following with great interest and attention all the debate, which has been developing from all opposition parties and, above all, from Officers, on the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura. Once again, unfortunately, in this Chamber, we hear only words lacking substance and arguments, but abundantly of populism. And of course, I will not even try to detect whether this obscene and no substance to most of us a proposal of distrust of SYRIZA to the person of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, is the result of despair, in which the Acoustic Anti-Population is found, as it has completely lost to society the much-advertised moral advantage in the past or is the result of internal insects of the problem that faces itself or its opposition deadlock, because it is evident to all its discomfort and obvious or the result of its regular policy, as it is evident to everyone that it has been dragged behind the proposal of the Greek Solution, on anti-constitutionality. The motion of censure is likely for them rather than a hopeless attempt to redefinite their position. For us, ladies and gentlemen, for the Members of the majority, but also for the current government, things are quite clear. The questions raised in society are clear and inconsistent. Does our country currently have a dissatisfaction with public debt and a dissatisfaction with private debt? There is. Is this going up to the figure of 234 billion? It's coming up. Has the amount of 50 billion on SYRIZA’s days of governance been created? Created. Of these 234 billion, does 106 billion involve private individuals' debt to the tax authority, 36 billion private individuals' debt to the insurance funds and 92 billion debt to the wider financial sector? Well, that's all about it. Can we all agree here, even once, that measures need to be taken today - and not tomorrow - in order to address this time bomb which is at the very foundation of our economy and, by extension, the status of our own state, namely our own? I think at least on this subject we could agree. Has legislative initiatives been taken to date in order to deal with and in any case to keep the problem intensification? Received. It should be noted that 11 instruments were passed between 2010 and 2019. Not one single piece of legislation has been passed, but eleven pieces of legislation. Have these laws solved the private debt problem over the ten years? Unfortunately, no. Otherwise, we would not be here today to talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you, not in my capacity as a Member of Parliament, but as a lawyer who has defended in the chambers of the Greek courts many cases of highly indebted household fellow citizens, that the legislative framework for protecting the first residence in our country over the last ten years has been inadequate, has been incomplete and incomplete. Even the notorious Katseli Act finally led to full debt relief, a law which, at first, seemed to be an opportunity for most of the citizens to rescue their first residence, proved to be inadequate. And that, because in the first place, it gave everyone protection, without criteria, without control, without safeguards, in the course of the course of the course most were unable to regulate their debts. And if some regulated them, then they were unable to serve them, and today thousands of Greeks and Greeks are trapped in the final judgment of each judge, as long as we say that more than 70,000 applications are pending for trial in the Greek courts. Ladies and gentlemen, time does not allow me to refer to the other legislations. But two laws passed on SYRIZA days failed, unfortunately, to resolve the problem. Suffice it to say that Law 4469/17 and Law 4605/19 only helped to regulate 2,200 applications from 63,000 companies the first and the second applications. This is the raw reality, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Unprotected households, incorporation into the law of Katseli of a large part of strategic malpractices, abolishing the first residence as early as February 2019, enlarged private debt, without regulatory provisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I will conclude. That is what you have inherited from us, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. And what we have been trying to do for the last five months in New Democracy, is despite the huge and unfavourable conditions in our national issues, in immigration, pandemic and natural disasters, to bring to all sectors - in most areas of public administration - the consolidation, modernisation and transparency, digitisation and efficiency, elements that are paving our parliamentary path and at the same time, at the same time, with economic measures for the reductions, favourable regulations and aid to the repayment of the citizens' existing debts. Nevertheless, you are coming here today with a great deal of nerve and you are accusing us of wanting the property to be liquidated, the poorness of the households and how we are following an abomination of legislation. No, ladies and gentlemen, the officer and, more generally, the opposition. Clearly we do not want this and clearly that is not our objective and we prove it every day that passes through our multi-level anthropocentric policy. Our aim is really to give a second chance to all people who, for certain reasons in the course of their lives, have been overtaken so that they can continue their lives on healthy terms and on healthy conditions. It is a pretext - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - that, once again, two worlds will clash in this Chamber. On the one hand, the healthy forces of this country, who want to see this country go forward, leave behind pathogens, leave behind all those that are burdening us, bureaucracy, pathogens and shortcomings. On the other hand, the forces that have been strangled in the past have been placed on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u144	Please finish, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u145	I'm done, Mr. President. It is certain that this battle will be won once again by the healthy forces of this country. We are therefore voting against the motion of censure presented by SYRIZA and we are expressing our confidence in the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikora, and our Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u146	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to inform the House that two Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mrs Kasimatis and Mr Papaliou have just made a request, in accordance with Rule 67 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 1 and 2. The request is, therefore, to examine the incidental issue that has arisen, as you mentioned in the letter in the course of the current parliamentary procedure, on a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, on an infringement of Rule 62(5) of the Rules of Procedure, which prevents or affects the debate, as they will, by giving the floor immediately to the first Member, Mrs Cassimatis, to determine what constitutes the incidental issue raised in their request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. We are using Rule 67 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure on incidental matters in order to consider the President, the Bureau and, of course, the plenary, a pathogen that is not known but is now based on a new supporting basis which should not be admissible. Since yesterday, as we know, the new traffic limitation measures came into force, due to the new coronary wave. Let's not talk about how we got this far. At the same time, however, it became known, while a leading process was being translated - the motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikoura, tabled by the Chief of Officerial Responsibility, Mr Alexis Tsipras, with our co-signatories, the Group's parliamentary group - that these de facto limitations will also be subject to Parliament. As a result, the procedure was interrupted very early yesterday, 23:30 at night, while the list is very large and was announced this morning that the vote will take place at around 20.00 a.m. - because of a coronary again - to count against all the measures taken, due to the circumstances and other difficulties in the parliamentary procedure. But this, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen, will mean a break at about 16.00 a.m., so that the Heads of the parties and the Secretary-General begin as well. Thus, thirty-one SYRIZA Members who have been written will be deprived of the right to speak, as of course New Democracy colleagues - I think they will have the same topic - and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and Article 62(5), the debate does not end before everyone who has requested the floor speaks, if they are not absent in the language of their names or have not resigned from him. Then the President of Parliament declares the debate adjourned. This is the specific provision that is being violated and I would like you, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, to accept the request to give us the floor, in accordance with Rule 67(5) of the Rules of Procedure, in order to develop the matter and our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u148	Please listen carefully to me, as I have heard. Parliament's decision was to close the sitting at 20 a.m. This is a matter which is repeatedly mentioned in the meetings. Even in today's morning or at the beginning, anyway, the meeting was announced today. It is therefore in the knowledge of all the parliamentary groups, which obviously also have the "responsibility" of this decision. But I would point out again that she was unanimous. First of all, that. Secondly, on the first day you are well aware that the sitting lasted for about two and a half - two and twenty, if I remember correctly - and yesterday on the basis of the health measures, it was decided to conclude around eleven and we reached twelve by four. If we do so on the basis of a sum of time, in the context of the debate on this motion of censure, we will reach thirty-four hours which may be a record of all the previous years in terms of the respective parliamentary procedures of censure. From there on, there is no reason, in my opinion, for this to be generalised or for further discussion. Decisions are given. So, from there on, I think we can stop this and continue to hold the meeting on the subject we are discussing and, of course, emphasise that - so that time can be gained. Allow me, in fact, to say that in the matter of the time that I have put to the end, there are also responsibilities for everyone. The Bureau is making an honest effort. It tackles any aggression which many times reaches the extremists and tries to bring them to an end in these time frames which we have all accepted, namely the seven-minute, six-minute. From that point of view, you are also all Members responsible for ensuring that the timetable is respected. So if we sit down and measure the minutes that were used by the Members over the time they are entitled, we might have another cycle. One or two circles may have been spoken by parliamentarians. So what do you want to say, Mrs. Kasimatis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u149	I should like to reply to you, because you answer me on the substance of the matter and, in fact, you are in breach of another right, because the request is admissible and I would like to develop it to you. You have tried to answer me without hearing our objections. I have given you exactly what the article is, which, in our opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u150	But you developed it, Mrs. Kasimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u151	No, I didn't. I had two minutes and I spoke much less than two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u152	We are ending the debate here because the President, the President-in-Office, the Bureau does not accept any further debate on this matter. Now, if you insist so long and there is this insistence, then I shall put it to the vote by means of a vote to end the story here. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, Members' rights, such as the rights in general, are not subject to majorities. Also, yesterday, our parliamentary representative stated explicitly that we will not accept that all SYRIZA Members who have signed the request should not speak. This is thirty-one SYRIZA MPs. This is how it has been calculated so that we can reach the fourth cycle, when the Elasson Opposition is over. There is also the Great Opposition, however, which is major from the Greek people and has just one mandate, qualitatively and quantitatively, to put forward and present to Parliament its views. We would like, please, to let me tell you the reasons why at least some of us are not evacuating our right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u154	Madam Colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u156	Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, before she makes her request, we must put her request to the admissibility. Allow me to say this, Madam President, without that being a reproach on your face. When using terms that are conceptual, legal and parliamentary, we should be careful. We also have to come up with a request. The incident, Mr President, is everything that hampers the progress of the debate if it is not resolved. This is not the case, therefore, as Mrs André-Léonard has pointed out and her development has not been accompanied by any request...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u158	And where do you know what the request is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u159	... because if her request is to complete the list of speakers, then we will be violating the three-day deadline set by the law, the Rules and the Constitution and that is where we will now have a clear violation of the Rules and the Constitution. So, incidentally, as the Rules of Procedure stipulate, but also conceptually as the incidental issue is, there is no such thing as that, Mr President. Progress of the debate may continue as it is done. It is up to the Bureau to regulate the time in consultation with the parliamentary groups. So there is no intrinsic question. It is unacceptable to ask, as has been introduced and developed by my colleague, and I would ask that the procedure be stopped here, whether or not there is an incidental question. According to the Rules of Procedure and according to the law, there is neither a broadly defined concept of giving up the Bureau. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u161	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u162	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u163	My colleague, obviously, did not understand that you did not give me the floor to develop my claims and my demands. Mr Colleague, we're talking about admissibility. You go ahead on the demands, you can see that we do not have the requests, as you prejudge a list of other hundred speakers that they will not speak, because the government decided to start at 6 p.m. and finish at 4 p.m. on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Cassimatis, do not address Mr. Buga. You have a time margin to develop what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u165	I've got five minutes. Thank you. As we have said, two issues are raised. One concerns the parliamentary function, the rights of each Member and the rights of Officerial Representation which are undermined by the way in which the debate is organised, and this affects her. As you know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Staff Response and the SYRIZA Members have tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos, because of the bankruptcy law. The government could start the debate at the same time, but it decided - or at least the government's majority - to start it next afternoon at 6 p.m., depriving the House of a whole day. As if this were not enough, and given that the measures were launched on Saturday, it appears that we will be interrupting in the fourteenth cycle - this will be the end of the debate - and only forty-three Members will speak from the eighty-six. This list, ladies and gentlemen, contains names and rights. It contains rights of the representatives of the nation in this House. It is not about Lista Petsa, where there are good inside and they go out and they don't come out. There are some things that are not invaded in this House, and that is why Members, the right to speak, as is indicated by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is the last fort of democracy and we must defend these rights. The Civic Opposition, the SYRIZA who made the proposal, apparently in a very dense period, as happens, with a Citizen's Protection Minister who escapes Chrysayites...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u166	Is that the incident, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u167	But now that's not on the record...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u168	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u169	But are we going to make a general political reference, Mrs. Kasimatis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I think there is some reason why the government wants us to talk much less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Cassimatis, excuse me, but I'm not looking for the floor. On the intervening party, where is your request, will you develop your arguments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u172	He wants us to talk much less, because he does not want to hear the eighty-six members of the SYRIZA, one - as they have signed, to give their reasons and to say why they propose mistrust with the Minister of Finance. That's the intercept. I'm going to go on and please don't interrupt me because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, what I said is confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u174	I'm interrupting you because I'm telling you again that the five-minute that the Bureau gave you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u175	Five minutes is by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u176	...and the Rules of Procedure provide that, in order to develop your arguments on the incidental issue you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u177	I'm using it. My argument is that the Civic Opposition is limited and tampered with in the way the debate has been organised, for no reason, because it cannot be said that the officials - it is not the officials' fault, of course, that the House is invoking it - cannot be returned and we must finish at 23.00. Everyone knows that all workers can, with their employer's permission, be released after twelfth. In any case, that is the second issue. In other words, the House is currently in doubt, instead of becoming an ark of human rights and of all those freedoms which are in the coronary crisis internationally, instead of the House exercising these rights and all parties acting as a convoy for this ark and defending the rights, we ourselves renounce them first. We are talking about ending at 16 a.m. - and, of course, this will not give up, but impose - and start the vote at 20 a.m. Why, Mr President? Under the Rules of Procedure of the House, twelve o'clock at night must be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u178	At the latest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u179	At the latest. Sure. So neither at 16 a.m. nor at 20 a.m. We come in the same words. So, our requests...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u180	I think what you wanted to say was understood...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u181	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u182	You must also give the Bureau the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u183	You will allow me to say that while there was this whole process, we have unfortunately also seen from the Bureau that seven minutes to ten were given at the beginning, and then six. The time is 13.15 minutes at noon and we're in the twelfth circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u184	Is that an incidental matter? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u185	We're in six minutes. The Members could speak less and the ministers would speak less. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u186	All right, the reasons for the intercept you put.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u187	The House, Mr President, should give the Members the necessary time and the opportunity to exercise their right of speech. It's your obligation. Otherwise it is also our right to exercise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u188	I repeat two - three issues that I raised earlier, in your first place. Please, sit down, don't stand up. The organization of the debate, this three-day debate, that is, on the motion of censure, has been decided by all the groups unanimously and in terms of time, and in terms of its conduct, and in terms of hours - let me say the word - but also in terms of its outcome, not exactly at 20.00 hours. This has been determined on the basis of the course of the debate. The fact that they are excluded or excluded, as has been announced and in the morning that it will take us about fourteenth-fifth-fifth cycle of speakers and some fellow Members will not speak of this is a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u190	Please. There's no record of anything you're saying. But that is not the responsibility of the Bureau. It is a total responsibility for how we keep the time. Because when we set a timetable we set it, for example, with the seven-minute period. If the seven-minute period is ten minutes from the majority of Members, of course, the time runs out, such as the ministers and parliamentarians and goes by saying. But this year is a debate which has been in operation for years and years in plenary, the procedures of the Conference of Presidents and so on. So we are talking about a unanimous decision. The third day, which is also mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, stipulates not exactly twelfth, but until twelfth. And, because you have also referred to the number of Members, for example the SYRIZA, respectively, the New Democracy, can say that fifty-five Members are excluded. But that's not it. This was in the knowledge of the groups when a decision was taken not on previous occasions, but even today, if you wish, this morning, when the President-in-Office announced when the meeting will end, how many Members of Parliament will speak and what will then be next, when we will enter the voting process. There has been no objection from all the parliamentary groups or even from any parliamentary group. In view of all this, the Bureau considers that there is no reason to continue discussing the incidental issue you have asked for. I think this can end and continue the meeting. Otherwise - and here I am closing it - if there are objections and objections, as I have said before, I shall ask for a vote. And to close this issue up to two times because - and beyond the regulations and what is said - Parliament is here. That decides both times and days and all. I'm closing it here. If, on the side of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, your objection continues, you are asking for it to be debated further, I am stopping it here, I tell you clearly our opinion, and from there we are entering the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u191	The parliamentary representative said so yesterday. He talked about exhausting the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u192	Please, you don't have the floor. We're closing it here. Let's move on to the next speaker. I see nothing else from the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Ragus has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my speech before I begin to refer from this top step towards Greek democracy to a people for whom the whole Paros society is mourning today because he was unfortunately also added to the macabre list of our fellow citizens from all over Greece who ended up because of the coronary. Let me refer to Christos Vlachoyannis, the former mayor of Paros, a man who honoured in the best way and the self-government he served, but also the society of Paros for many years, but above all a great man, a man whom I am sure no Parisian or Parisian will easily forget. At the same time, you will allow me to say a great thank you to the University Hospital in Larissa, and in particular to the intensive care unit and its address, which gave her the best three weeks in which Christos could have done it. Now to be in the six-minute, very briefly, firstly, I have an obligation to make a reference to the delusional and extremely arson speech made yesterday by the Minister for Civil Protection, because it appears to another Minister that we have tabled a motion of censure and another has lost his temper. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, when the Minister for Civil Protection loses his temper then we risk having a dangerous minister across us. Three things. He talked about the law on the protests. There is no, and you need to know, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling, another law perhaps in the history that became a rag in practice in such a short time after its vote. I am not only referring to the fact that Marios Ice has already sent circulars to all the prosecutors of Greece according to which he considers an unconstitutional express and a very basic provision of this law, but also to the fact that he is not only applicable, as was not applied at the court of appeal. Did you see anyone at the meeting at the Golden Dawn court to state what the law presupposes and presupposes, that is, the coordinator? Nobody. To ask all the gatherings that take place outside in Athens or in any other city in the country. No one's applying him. Secondly, Mr Chrysochoidis continues to lie about the incidents at the court of appeal. To prove the truth you have to make the whole video out of the drone public and not the one that starts after the episodes begin. Because if he gives it all, then the Greek people will see that the police and before any other challenge had already given orders and went next to the gathering of two rats, which are wonderable how they were notified to approach a gathering. This could be because they had some warning. So what? They were watching the gathering and they knew there were gonna be episodes? And if they were to watch the gathering and knew there would be incidents, they couldn't watch Mr. Pappas, says Mr. Chrysochoidis falsely and basically took the political responsibility for the fact that at the moment we have this unacceptable situation for the criminal chrysayite to have left them through their hands? On the subject of the motion of censure three very simple words. I do not want to repeat anything that our colleagues have said, especially from the first day the draft law was debated by our rapporteur, Mrs Ahtsoglou, and our parliamentary representative, Mr Tsakaloto. But, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remember that it is time for you to live up to the negative consequences of a policy that you decide is equivalent and equivalent to the end of your communication policy. Because no matter what you say and what you say in these days, and whatever you say next, no matter what you do, no matter what you do, no matter what you do, no matter what you do, no matter what you do, no matter what the opposition is from here or from now on, any Greek and any Greek person who fails, any Greek and any householder who loses his first residence will know an unequivocal truth, Mr Staikora. That this is due to the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Mr Stakoura personally. Whatever you say is the great truth that from now on will prevail not only in these same people, but also in their social environment and in their working environment and no one will be able to overcome that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I wanted more to say, but I have to stay in the semester. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is a major issue that arises after this law that will be passed in the next few days. Mr Muzalas and Mr Vitsas have said that I also have a list here - I will not make a denomination, because I do not think there is anything I can do nor want to scandal - of Ministers with very large loans individually. In this sense, I would like to take into account everyone that it is now opening up a moral and political obligation for Parliament and for the political potential of the country, as the'subjects' have been posted on the Internet, as the 'DIAGY' has been established, so we should also go through a new legislation that informs the Greek people about the historic conclusion of individual loans, particularly the Ministers and why not the Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u194	And for Paul!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u195	For everyone, for all! ... as well as the evolution and course of dealing with this loan, because otherwise it will not be possible to stand the country's civilian personnel in a society that loses its first residence when this society is not informed of what is going on with the loans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish in a few seconds, Mr President. And because you have repeatedly reiterated a permanent argument which has obviously advised you to give in a horizontal way that we cannot today put forward a motion of censure, Mr Staikoura, this motion of censure, you have no doubt that this evening will be rejected, but it will be adopted in Greek society. And you say that you cannot do this, you tell us, you move our fingers, because we have pandemic, because we have the Turks in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Ragosi, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u197	I am done, Mr President, again, honestly. Did we have a pandemic last week? Have we had Orutch Race last Sunday, ladies and gentlemen? We had it. On 10 and 15 August, did we have Orutch Race in the Eastern Mediterranean? We had it. And the pandemic, her second wave had begun. So if you think democracy should not work, because that is what you say when you say that we could not normally table such a motion of censure, at least bear in mind that the extent to which you are exposed is great. Because at the same time you say that democracy cannot work, at the same time last Sunday, in August, with the Turks in the Aegean Sea, with the pandemic here, the Prime Minister did not stop on vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u198	Well, thank you very much, Mr Ragosi. The Minister for Health, Mr. Kiilias, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by reminding all of us for half a minute that today is the World Day against Mascos Cancer. I am very pleased that many colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, are very sensitive to cancer issues. It is a disease that is nowadays riding in the Western world and growing geometrically. I am very pleased that the National Health System, the Ministry of Health and the Government do not only work on the issue of the coronary. Today, the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, announced that the Ministry of Health through the EEAY will now carry out free horizontal mastography in all women forty and fifty years, pilots this year on the basis of our bill "Apostolos DOXIADIS" for public health, thus continuing an effort to pre-symptom and screening horizontally in healthy populations, usually in people who need to know early if they are faced with such a serious problem, so that they, and their families, can deal with it. I'm talking about all types of cancer. I think it's a very important initiative. And we will continue on this ground by supporting, in addition to care, prevention and screening. Let me start by saying that the world is faced with a pandemic - sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, we forget it - that it has a place for a century and that the health systems, even in the world's most advanced and powerful countries, are hard to respond to the pressure being exerted on them. Medical is now practiced under conditions of quasi-war. Measures to safeguard and promote public health are unprecedented in scope and intensity in order to avoid the worst. The consequences of pandemic, as many of you have already mentioned, at social, economic and human level, are testing the strengths of both the states and the people around the planet. On the planet, however, ladies and gentlemen, on planet SYRIZA, there are other values and priorities. There - and you confirmed these three days in the House - the party interest and internal balance are greater than the thought of home and human. It is self-proof that the minimum required by the difficult times is to be able to remove ourselves individually and collectively to the extent of the circumstances. We have quickly analysed the ones that are fully aware of the scale of the threat and have taken the necessary measures to protect public health in good time organising the ERC. We have not replicated others' practices. Our own interventions and initiatives have become an example of the successful management of the pandemic worldwide. We have formulated a safe, reasoned plan for the operation of society adapted to extraordinary health conditions. And all of this, with an absolute view of anthropism and the protection of life, of every individual life, because we do not allow ourselves - and I believe no one should - worthwhile discounts. I am sorry to say this - and I am sorry to say this - that even in the first phase of the pandemic there have been several misgivings, people and collectives connected with your political space, mainly, with SYRIZA, who have opposed the measures. Of course, you are all well aware that the wider society has turned its back on all these voices, understanding the criticality of moments and our effectiveness in managing the crisis. Despite these misgivings, in the name of national unity and effort, ladies and gentlemen, I have recognised and honoured the political contribution of certain officials from the Anti-Population Officers. I did so on account of knowledge, even though I was misunderstood by my fellow believers. Unfortunately, you proved you're not changing. You understand and read the problems as micropolitical. You cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, that there are moments when micro-politicals enter second degree, because obviously the national interest prevails, moments like the one at stake in national survival and its terms, perhaps because the term 'national' and its derivatives disturb you. In the motion of censure, you have shown us that, apart from the inability you have shown as far as you are concerned, especially in these matters, you are indeed capable of everything. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this summer you have already had - I remind you - the debate on pre-day here in this House - a squeeze on health issues. You have not tolerated the opportunityal provocation of seriousness and have decided to dismiss it by revealing your opportunistic and inconsistent side and nature. You have also served - I have heard you these three days carefully all of you - in a proliferation of false data on the state of the National Health System by stumbling people's confidence and breaking the front against pandemic. Generally you sow doubt, distrust, when we need national unity as much as we ever have. And because in my political path I have decided to go with a guide to efficiency and truth, the figures, ladies and gentlemen, are not questioned. You delivered five hundred and fifty seven beds of ICU, today we have nine hundred seventy - four and continue with another four hundred forty - five beds of ICU in Attica, when on SYRIZA there were only two hundred and twenty - eight. Two hundred sixty-eight ICUs and MUFs are developing right now, at the moment we're talking. They will be delivered gradually from the end of October and will be completed at the end of the year, where we are expected to have achieved this, which we promised, a thousand double beds, i.e. twelve beds of ICES per 100 thousand inhabitants, citizens, the average of the European Union. You question the numbers for the recruitment. We added six thousand eight hundred and twelve executives to the ESS, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, support staff. Four thousand nurses who are aware of CSR procedures will remain in the SSR as an indefinite time, strengthening public health and the possibility of changing from subsidiary positions to curators II doctors with evaluation and staying in the system as well as four hundred doctors for CSR. We have provided the necessary diagnostic and personal protective equipment. We have doubled the daily number of tests carried out and added five hundred mobile groups to the health system and thousands of positions in the country. To date these mobile groups have conducted four hundred thousand tests to detect the coronary. Only in the last two days there have been fifty thousand. We were one of the first countries to bring the rapid test. Our aim has been and is one: to upgrade and support hospitals, especially for people who do not have and cannot. The country's success has recently been recognised horizontally and vertically. The World Health Organization has chosen Greece and specifically Athens for the headquarters of its office, on the quality of health care and patient safety. This choice of WHO came as a reward for Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Ministry of Health and the Greek Government for managing the pandemic for implementing public health policies, such as the successful implementation of the anti-smoking law or the promotion of important reforms, such as the relevant law on the National Quality Assurance Agency for Health. I could develop in detail our steps for primary health care, for the creation of a health network in primary health care, for the hundreds of sixty health centres that have entered into the battle of the coronary, for intact prescribing, anti-smoking law, high-cost medicines in oncology patients, etc. I want to tell you the NSA isn't just the coronary. Let me inform you that from 1 to 30 September, there were two hundred two out of five hundred sixteen thousand seventy-seven out of nine patients in the regular outpatients, two hundred and three hundred out of eighty-sixteen patients in the emergency department, forty thousand thirty-two surgery, fifty-four thousand-four out of the patients in the afternoon service and morning hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance, which you object to and the Minister of Finance, gave EUR 890 million in the middle of a bug in the Ministry of Health in 2020. They will provide 330m euros in 2021 and there is an open budget for any exit and need arises for the Ministry of Health from the Ministry of Finance for all unforeseen expenses. So, we move forward with a coordinate plan, but you insist on spending yourself on what you do not need, for apparently some of us are not enough in what they need. And it crushes me personally, because I have pushed hands of sympathy and support in these difficult times. The cheap opposition in lame times, in times of seriousness, responsibility and agitated internal front, in times that beyond pandemic we face the highest challenges of national survival, undermine the national effort. We, on the other hand, insist on the doctrine of 'where unity, there and victory', ladies and gentlemen. We now call on the Qualified Opposition to consider its responsibilities. I would remind you that your obligation to return to Greece at least equal to what you have taken over recent years with your unwise policies is an obligation that remains here. Not pretending to be the honorers, not pretending to be the guinea pigeons. We support the Minister of Finance, we support the government. We have a lot of road and work ahead of us, all united in facing pandemic and all the challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's MEP, Mr. Kouloglu, in his yesterday's article entitled 'The Left', does not win SYRIZA', he refers to the recent elections at Attica Hospital, where the thousand voted and the SYRIZA received twenty-eight votes. On the occasion of this, therefore, it speaks of anti-SYRIZA syndrome in society. And the question is a responsibility: is this syndrome you are trying to stir up with the debated motion of distrust? Because if you are trying to do this, unfortunately your parliamentary presence does not show it. Instead of restraining it, you are strengthening it, colleagues of the SYRIZA. The motion of censure, as we know, ladies and gentlemen, under the Constitution, is the most powerful parliamentary instrument. It is a parliamentary mechanism to award the individual and collective responsibility of the members of the Government for acts or omissions in the performance of their duties. At the same time, however, the proposal performs a strong communication function, since it does not aim to overthrow the government and to record a new correlation of parliamentary powers, but to maximise the publicity of opposition positions. Let us see what this proposal achieves: the basic prerequisite for the opposition that submits the motion of censure is to have to a certain extent, not parliamentary or constitutional legitimacy, but moral legitimacy. The party and the prime minister of the third and tougher memorandum, the government that closed the banks, kneeled down the economy, which destroyed the middle-class, the Prime Minister of the seizures and the twenty-seven thousand forced auctions, do not have the moral legitimacy to submit a proposal at the expense of the Minister of Finance that it does not protect the first place. Let us look at things in relation to the proposal being discussed. The protection of the first residence was complete until 31/12/2014, i.e. until the elections in 2015. SYRIZA then did not protect for all borrowers the first residence, but for a small part of them and under strict conditions: The debtor had to pay several instalments for many years and it was doubtful whether he would eventually manage to maintain it or find himself on the road, while for all this time the first residence was still borne by means of heavienings, which makes it difficult, if not impossible to transfer it to even the debtor's children. With the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, the debtor can regulate his debts and retain his right of ownership in the main residence or the state's financial assistance to secure the right of residence in his home and regain it, without any burden, in order to be able to dispose of it as he wishes. The Minister of Finance is also involved, SYRIZA, because the draft law provides for the bankruptcy of natural persons and not just those of a commercial status. In fact, the draft law gives natural persons the possibility of total regulation of their debts for the first time. To date, those who do not have a commercial property, have confiscations and auctions of all their assets, speeding up any creditor. If their property is not sufficient to satisfy the claims of all creditors, they risk losing everything and still have to, without actually having the possibility of obtaining new assets, since they too - the new assets they acquire - will be subject to the cover of the existing claims of their creditors. Under the provisions of the draft law proposed by the Minister of Finance, natural persons can, by collective and organised procedure, regulate their debts globally. With the new code, those who are unable to meet their obligations really get a second chance. They can optimise the future and reintegrate into the country's economic life. Conclusion, the draft law on which a motion of censure was put forward not only is not in contradiction with the real needs of society - as SYRIZA argues - but also effectively supports citizens and especially the most vulnerable. Let us now see whether the proposal that has been requested achieves the second of its objectives, as I mentioned in my speech, namely the publicity of the opposition positions. First of all, Mr. Tsipras did not succeed in persuading his friendly press about the merits of his proposal. Acknowledgement second: [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u202	You've got it legally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u203	The SYRIZA MPs, noting that their arguments for the draft law are unleashed and have been devastated, attempt a general, incomprehensible and uninformed attack on the whole of government policy to immediately get their answers, both from the relevant ministers and from the Members of the New Democracy. Third, Mr Tsipras and his MPs were surprised to surprise New Democracy by their motion of censure, they were surprised themselves, finding the poverty of their arguments. In addition to repeating what they have said so far, they are unable to formulate any proposal. On the issues you mentioned in your own motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, what is your proposal? What is your proposal for first residence? Because if you want to regulate first home loans, if you want lasting protection, tell us which bank will give loans when it knows from the outset that this loan will not be paid? Is it a question of guaranteeing those who have loans for their first residence or of allowing young people to have a loan perspective to obtain? It's a fact that Mr. Tsipras has become self-sufficient. The presence of Parliament, of itself and of its Members, strengthens the frustration of its supporters. Of course we are voting against the proposal and we are confirming our confidence in the Minister and the Government. But the real worrying thing - and I conclude, Mr President - about the country and the institutions is that the Critical Opposition and its Chief are unable to understand the criticality of moments. Once again, they prove to be inferior to the circumstances. They propose the party against national interest. They are not concerned about the important and great problems facing our country. For this posture and the suffering you have accumulated in the country when you have ruled, you are being blamed by the Greek people. The reproach of the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, will be dealt with if you do not change your position every day until the next elections. Of course we are voting against the proposal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u204	Thank you. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, sixteen months after the elections, the New Democracy Government presents an entirely virtual reality in the state at last, in good legislation, in the resolution of the refugee problem, in the effective management of national issues, in the recovery of the economy. SYRIZA on the other hand, seeing his unprecedentedly problematic and negative social and political path, makes up everything in order to salvage what he can. It resorts to acts and actions which have similarly negative effects. He's targeting Mr. Stakoura and he's rallying the New Democracy. Out of cedar, Mr. Mitsotakis. It is obvious that there is an attempt to create a duplex by Mr. Mitsotakis or Mr. Tsipras. Because they think they'll keep their powers. One supports the other through polarization and division. They're both sides of the same coin. They also started together in 2010. You remember it and the insiders, who were Members then, and we were out. Together, they started the squares of the indignant and now they're boiling together. So, at the time when it is clear that Mr Mitsotakis does not have a plan to face Turkey's challenges and cannot manage the pandemic, while leaving the weak at God's mercy and at the mercy of the banks, Mr Tsipras, in the specific way that we are discussing today, relieves him of his responsibilities and turns himself against Mr Stagiora, a minister. New Democracy, on the other hand, by an oral Minister of Finance, recalled the fact that PASOK was responsible for the country's first Memorandum and bankruptcy the day before yesterday. Mr. Stavura, no. Mercy! The Papandreou government in 2009 when you were dealing with the Zapea - remember them, I think - did not share political costs and took steps to prevent us from becoming Venezuela. It was the Government of Karamanlis that over the period 2004-2009 derailed the Greek economy and erected the debt deficit while sending falsified data to the Commission. That's not what I'm saying. He fully agrees with all foreign institutions with the former President of the Commission Jean-Claude Juncker. At the same time, we recall that for four years he proposed the reproach today SYRIZA avoided referring to the causes of the country's financial derailment in the period 2004-2009. I really don't know, is SYRIZA owned by radio silence syndrome for the period 2004-2009? What the Karamanlis government had then done, isn't it facts of the current situation? I would remind you that symptomically over the period 2004-2009 was the former prosecutor and then appointed Minister of Conflict SYRIZA - ANEL Mr Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou. The Greek people do not forget that. He doesn't forget this period. Even the eighty-five thousand blue recruits of the chosen SYRIZA - ANEL, New Democracy for the Presidency of the Republic, then Minister, who, of course, did not have the chance to vote for him by the current Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. Of course Mr Stavros knows that. Of course he knows them, but the secrets because it doesn't interest him. But we respond with information, ladies and gentlemen, about what PASOK received on Papandreou in 2009 from the Government of New Democracy. We recall that in 2003, while the country was a huge construction site because of the Olympic Games, the debt ranged to 101.5% of GDP, which was the low five years. However, since 2004, under Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis, there has been a financial derailment that takes an unprecedented extent in 2008 with a deficit of -10.2% and a deficit of -15.1% in 2009. The result of this catastrophic 2005-2009 was that the public debt increased by 25 percentage points and in absolute sizes over EUR 300 billion for the first time. That's why, unfortunately, SYRIZA hasn't said a word in years. It's all PASOK's fault in this country. For the record, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to point out that according to the combined historical data of Eurostat and the OECD by 2019 no other budget deficit like that of the New Republic of 2009 had been recorded. Also, according to the Bank of Greece's historical data available, a negative performance on the deficit and the general government's debt has been observed since the 1992-1993 term of Constantine Mitsotakis. At that time, with an increase of 24 percentage points, public debt increased by over 70%. Ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling and Officership, by resurrecting a reality of illusion and bliss, we are not going anywhere. The country is at a dead end, and the issue has been and remains the Greek people. It is important for the citizens that you do not have the chicken fights, nor the double fights. The present and future of this country cannot be poverty, austerity, austerity, customer relations, interventions in the institutions, supposedly charitable ministers. The present and future of this place is a strong social state, good education, good health and development. I understand, of course, that the coherence and durability of the Coupling remains stable. But your disharmony, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, with society and the citizens, has already started to ring a bell. Use the pandemic to develop the client state and opacity. You are working on pandemic with a view to gradual elasticisation of labour relations, as well as the service of specific interests. With your insurance reform you have maintained the Katrugalou law intact. You have abolished the lack of a third pension, you have not introduced the proposal on a minimum guaranteed monthly income for pensioners in the case of ECAIs and you have not activated the new CSCE. Digital transformation and so-called revolutionary e-ECA are in the air. The pending applications for main and supplementary pensions are close to three hundred thousand. Pending pensioners without pensions, there are still four years waiting for a decision that is never adopted. Mr. Stavoures speaks in Phthiotis. Does he really have a picture of what's going on in the rural department of the Central Greek FAMILY? Since 2017, retired farmers have still been living without a pension. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that unemployment is on the verge. Only between March and June the exit from the workforce ranged between 100 thousand and eighty thousand people compared to the corresponding months of 2019. In the second quarter of 2020, the average monthly salary decreased by around 10% compared to the same quarter of 2019. The proportion of people who received between 400 and 600 euros was reduced from 16.3% to 12.3%, while in the second quarter of 2020 72.9% of those employed had less than a thousand euros. At the same time, a de facto removal of eight hours has been imposed and a liquidation of the time of start-up and termination of work. There is a bill coming that will abolish and mislead Mr. Regulation (EEC) No 1264/82. I conclude, Mr President, that the prevalence of the climate of precariousness and uncertainty in the labour market and the poorness of citizens is not a sign of social and economic progress. I wonder if you know how the platform was operating from the extrajudicial mechanism or how the procedure operates with Law 3869/2010, will you come and vote tomorrow for a bill like this? Do you know how this system worked, ladies and gentlemen? You don't know that. If you knew, I think you'd all be negative. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the unresolved policies of the New Democracy are not going to contribute to the country's slightest recovery, and that is why we are not going to vote for the Mitsotakis Government and any of its ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. We proceed with Mr. Dionyssis Stamenitis from New Democracy and Pella with the waterfalls and Mr. Xanthos prepares. Mr. Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, history has written that you received a country in 2015 with a growth of 0.7%, you have led us to an unnecessarily memorable memorandum, you have put the country back into recession for many years, you have put public property under control for a hundred years and reduced all new pensions. However, let us now see this motion of censure. It really needs a great deal of effort to be able to find some convincing and substantial reasons to justify this decision, namely to put forward a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura. Indeed, it is worth wondering why a party that abolished the horizontal protection of first home when it was in the government, a party that legislated on electronic auctions and during its government term of office, had more than twenty-five thousand auctions come from the opposition's position today and, in fact, put forward a motion of censure in a bill which seeks to create a permanent, stable, operational framework that is viable to regulate the debts of legal and natural persons and, indeed, with one of the main objectives of the bill, to prevent private debt. In order for us to understand it, and for the Greek people to hear it, tell us exactly where you disagree. Do you want us to remain in the logic of temporary legislation on the first residence, as was the case with previous political initiatives, but which involved a limited number? Do you want us to remain without a debt arrangement? Do you want citizens to be committed to their debts? Do you disagree with the extrajudicial compromise? What exactly do you want? You look like you don't know what you want. You look like you don't understand. Obviously, you don't even know where you're stepin' politically or where you're going. You have led to a politically awkward and desperate choice. If, in the end, we want to find the reasons that led you to it, they certainly do not hide in your desire to protect the Greeks, but they are in your desperate attempt to find a way out of your political deadlock. So, once again, you get to the known behaviors and practices of this irresponsible attitude, the hypocritical political position. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, once again aim, trying to blur the bad image the Greek people have for you. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day of the country's governance by New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the government has made one - one - of its commitments to the Greek people. The results of the first semester testify to the success of the policy mix followed, as well as to the acceptance of this by Greek citizens. The appearance of the health crisis has interrupted this course, giving birth to emergencies, asking for immediate answers. And there the government worked in time and efficiently, first in the sanitary department and then in the economy. The evidence shows that our country is low in health risk indicators compared to the rest of Europe, but also low in recession indicators. In this context, our country has also been faced with an unforeseen neighbour who has been trying since February to create problems at both our land borders and the maritime areas. Here too, the Greek Government is giving the answers that it must respond successfully to both the diplomatic and the operational threats of Turkey. In short, at a time when our country is facing three crises, SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras again qualify for their small-party interest. Of course, it is your right to pretend, to be irresponsible. Your right is and no one wants to deprive you of it. But don't expect us to answer that. Every time Greece faces difficulties, every time Greece is in front of adventures - be careful - every time Greece and Greece respond to them and do so, every time what SYRIZA does? 'It blurs the waters', it pretends that other things are being discussed. Does that really serve national interests? Ladies and gentlemen, our greatest task as parliamentarians is to listen to society, to understand the anguish of our fellow citizens and to strive to solve our problems. The first aim of politics is to make people's lives better. And the current government, the Prime Minister, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and the other ministries, have shown that they are listening, adopting proposals and giving solutions. In Pella, the county to which I am elected, my fellow citizens see this and I believe that the rest of Greece sees it. They see it. And I will give you a few examples, leaving the general example of lowering taxes or strengthening entrepreneurs during the crisis. Because this government has listened to the problems of farmers and ELGA has been subsidised by the state budget with the figure of 20% of its budget, so that our producers can pay the rest of the compensation in the summer instead of in November, which you had introduced, for the first time since 2010. Because the requests from small and medium-sized enterprises, which were included in the last advance, have also been heard. They're these individual businesses without personnel. Because the world of education was heard and most of the educational gaps were covered on time. Because the infrastructure projects in Pella are also in place. These are the demands of the citizens, who have been transferred to the government and are being implemented. And we have too much to do and too much to talk about. The country gives us a struggle, which is taking a step-by-step. The next day is in front of us, and we're sure it's better. The work we do allows us to deal with it with optimism. The Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Christos Stakoras, with the full guidance of the Prime Minister, has a large share of responsibility for the country's upward course, as well as for the support of society and the economy during the crisis. That is why I am voting against SYRIZA's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr Stamenitis. Rethymnotis has the floor, Mr. Andreas Blonde, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by making a reference to today's anniversary, the world day against breast cancer and, unfortunately, to a delusional announcement made by the Prime Minister today. We have heard - and the Minister has said this again here - that the Prime Minister has announced that from now on women forty-nine and fifty years will do free mastography every two years. I will tell you what applies since the sixth of 2018 from the Single Health Regulation of the EEAS, which in Chapter 2 Article 6 says that it is done without the participation of the beneficiary for the early diagnosis of breast cancer with the following frequency: Every two years in women between the ages of forty and fifty - and not forty-five - each year in women over the age of fifty and in women over the age of thirty-five years, since the latter belong to a high-risk group. In short, the Prime Minister today has promptly announced something that is less than what is applicable and compensated. As he has announced some time ago that new coronary vaccines, whenever they come to the country, will be available free of charge to the citizens of our country, when we know very well that all vaccines included in the national vaccination programme and approved by the National Committee for Vaccination, are given free of charge. So the Prime Minister comes out and announces things that apply. This, in my opinion, is the definition of falsification of reality, distortion of truth, populism and demagogy, to end this type of criticism. Two. You don't say who cost and compensated for the digital mastography in the country. Until a few years ago it was not a costly examination and it was not compensated by the EEAY. So this disgusting previous SYRIZA government did this and, of course, extended this possibility to uninsured women by making serious intervention, quietly and systematically, protection of public health. I also heard the Minister earlier, who knew me. He had a tone in his speech, which is particularly problematic, at a time when the anguish of society, of people, of health and of all of us, and I think, of the spread of pandemic in the country is culminating. So Mr. Kikilis told us: “You are capable of all things. It turns out you're not changing by anything. You're making cheap opposition. You have opportunistic logic. You're shaking the inner front. You are undermining the national effort." Only he didn't tell us that SYRIZA is the Trojan horse of the entrance of the coronary into the country! I mean, mercy! And do you think that with this climate, with this toxicity to confrontation, the necessary social and political consensus is really being facilitated, indeed, in order to deal with the pandemic crisis, but also with the other major crises in the economy and national issues? You're deep in the night! Your bill, which clearly favours poverty, property sales, the extreme poorening of popular households, in my view also weakens the effort in the field of public health. Because the World Health Organisation has said that in this big crisis, it is not just vulnerable groups, they are not specific groups of long-term sufferers, they are not the elderly. The poor are vulnerable too. Unlike pandemics, there are inequality. This is what the World Health Organisation has. So when you make an intervention that favours the poorening of society, you create favourable ground for greater vulnerability in our country towards the virus. Also, something very important, it is not possible to give up on us because we found this Timing to make the motion of censure, while the real question is precisely because you, at this juncture of the multiple crisis, uncertainty and insecurity in society, now that you really need interventions to strengthen social cohesion and the rule of law, are choosing to trigger a climate of polarization, confrontation, frustration, abhorrentness, anger and indignation in Greek society. So you are, in my view, dynamic of this necessary intervention. Preventing pandemic and effective protection of public health, we have told you many times, cannot be a case of threats, imposition of fines, targeting and stigmatising. It can't be a police case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is a case of confiscation, first of all, of health professionals, of people who can really and convincingly document local societies, of the affected sectors, of the real risk assessment, of the people who will communicate the message and who will not give contradictory information, such as, while we have an unprecedented outbreak of cases, the growth trend is very strong, at the same time saying yes, but we are much better than other countries in Europe, and therefore undermining the message of militarisation and vigilance that is needed at this stage to convince young people too, in order to convince everyone. With your complacency, with the sense of protection from media, by not accepting the slightest criticism, by not throwing bridges of co-operation, by not accepting transparency in the management of public money. We had submitted from the beginning of the crisis that there should be a Parliamentary intergroup to monitor expenditure, commissions, recruitment everything. You refused to take any action to control social and political matters. And you're coming now and asking for the change and making calls for national unity?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u210	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u211	You have not realised that major public health crises around the world can only be dealt with effectively when they are based on strong social and political consensus. You, in your actions on your day-to-day and legislation, oppose this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u212	I will give the floor to Mr Christo Kella from New Democracy. The Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr Andreas Loverdos, will then speak of his denology, then Mr Tarantilis from New Democracy, and then the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Placiotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure to the Minister for Finance, Mr Stakoura, will certainly be the subject of discussion by the political analysts of the future. You make a motion of censure to a minister and not to the government as a whole. Right? That's right. Do you agree with the government's work? Oh, no. You are doing this to send a unity message to Turkey. I can't believe it. And because Turkish challenging is constantly growing, and the extension to the twelve nautical miles of the yacht is an inalienable right and you know it, and you suggest it, why not, ladies and gentlemen, four and a half years when you were government? "Didn't you do anything," said the late Florkis? You didn't even do that. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have a very weak memory. I would remind you that despite the show of Ithaca, the Greeks and Greeks deplored the policy of Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos, both in the European elections and in the national elections, giving a strong mandate for governance to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy, in the government that implements all its commitments at a remarkable speed and especially in the economic sector, which Mr Stakoras is in charge of. Good morning, as a government, we have reduced HPAI, we have increased the tax on each child, we have reduced the taxation of natural persons and businesses, we have reduced insurance contributions to the private sector, we have suspended VAT on the building. Is that enough? Can I keep telling you? We've zeroed an income tax deposit. We're giving birth benefits to deal with birth. We broaden the heating allowance. We have drawn up a first home protection programme. We pay retrospectively to private and public pensioners and much more. May I remind you what you have done over your days? You have consciously increased taxation, as Mr Tsakalotos himself said on several occasions from this step, you have cut wages and pensions, and you have reached the end of the day abolishing the CSCE. Mercy! That's enough hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. Because it's hypocrisy you're doing with Mr. Stakoura. Except - except - and if you want to provoke a comparison of our economic policy with that of Mr Tsakalotou, for your own internal reasons. You became government under the slogan "no house in the hands of a banker" and you ruled four years with the slogan "no house in the hands of a owner". Didn't you remove the protection of the first residence by law of 2015, which you set as the end date on 31 December 2018 and then by law in February 2019 you abolished any protection of the first residence? Didn't you introduce the electronic auctions? Didn't you bring an amendment to self-determination in December 2017 for those who blocked electronic auctions? Were you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who led your former Minister, Mr Lafazani, to the GDR? Have you forgotten? And you come here today and you blame Mr. Stakoura, because he brings a first home protection plan with the possibility of buying back in two hundred forty instalments and a 12-year depth? How untrustworthy, how hypocrisy, how political fraud! You have no memory problem. You know very well what you have done, but you are trying to salvage what you can, because our differences unfortunately are increasing for you. Our government has fully repelled the attempt to penetrate the Turks in Evros and has shielded the country effectively, while successfully confronting the first wave of pandemic. And then you said why we apply lockdown and that we do not support the ESS. But at the same time we recruited six thousand medical and nursing staff and doubled the IF beds and then put in the fight against pandemic and primary health care. Then you said why we did not open the border to tourism and when we opened the border with all the precautionary measures, you said why we opened them. You did the same thing with the schools. At first, you said to shut down the schools and then say why the schools open up, not to open the schools in September. Now schools have been opened for the first time with four and a half thousand permanent appointments of educational staff after ten years and for the first time with fifty thousand assistant teachers. You, however, want the schools fields of political controversy and the students' opportunity to party clients. The needs for their education and the sacrifices of their parents are not of interest to you. All on the altar of party interest! The same and worse you didn't do with Jan last week? We had the disasters in Thessaic Cabo and you were asking for immediate restoration. The Ministry of Interior immediately released thirty-seven million euros for households and businesses. ELGA proceeded with a direct log. The compensation went for the first time from 80% to 100%, giving a brave advance on damaged crops. Free financing has been decided for affected farmers and businesses in equipment, production facilities and in stored products. And what did you do? What have you done, SYRIZA colleagues? You said that these measures were well and self-evident, but you did not vote for them. Unbelievable? Unbelievable and real! Ladies and gentlemen, in 15 months' time our prolongation has achieved a great overthrow, ensuring the conditions for the development and security of the country whose prerequisite is effective economic policy. With the same policy, we will continue by supporting the Minister of Finance and we will progress unequivocally in front of the Greeks and Greeks by shaping a brighter future for the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, after three days we find that the House has done what the Prime Minister has not done, that is to say to generalize the debate. And the House discussed everything. The ministers said everyone who has done what he has done and will do, and the opposition has criticised all of the material in his power from his party and from his parliamentary group. That's how he spent the three-day. A great deal has been said about Mr Stavoura's draft law, which will take place again tomorrow, because the adjourned session is continuing. While so he went to close the three-day day, last night prelude, today the main issue was the issue of foreign policy, especially Greek-Turkish relations at the National Delegation at this juncture. More silly invention than this one I can't see. Let me explain. I'm not talking about fools. I never object in this way to any and none. I'm talking about a stupid choice. What do I mean? We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that President Erdogan has been folded after the forty days of violation of our sovereign rights, pulled back his convoy, seismography and warships, and that at all levels was seen as a positive action, which restricts aggressive movements and possibly opens doors of dialogue. Without being a position of my party or of my personal interest, I would also like to point it out to the National Representation yesterday by Mr Savvaid, who said that the start of the dialogue was a good thing, but if we do not have both countries - Turkey, that is, because we are clean - the end of such exploratory contacts, we may be repeating in the fifteenth year 2002-2016, where for sixty around exploratory contacts there had been nothing. So while our topic after Turkey's retreat was how to make exploratory contacts and for the good of the country, its position that with Turkey we are discussing only issues of maritime zones in the middle of Europe and by the United States, only Erdogan and Turkey had their own thoughts, which we know and which we have disappointed together as a country, all the parties, the Turkish President felt humiliated by his retreat. The article of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Tsavosoglou in "Kathemerini" shortly after the announcement of the opening of the investigative contacts was an article that expressed a very positive attitude towards the dialogue of the exploratory contacts, but understood who can read the language of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because Turkey's Ministry wrote that text, that the problem would be created through Cyprus, not through Cyprus. Indeed, a few days later, this was the case with the events of Famagusta, which Turkey's energy is a violation of the United Nations' decisions. But that was not enough for President Erdogan. Where a telephone or opportunistic dialogue was taking place between the Greek and Turkish Foreign Ministers to determine the date for the start of the exploratory contacts there came the new ten-day NAVTEX Turkey in which closest point of approach to Greece was half a mile from Kastelorizo. There's no more aggressive move than her. What escalation some people say, and I wonder what they call it in the House. Attacking is the term if we want to be serious. While this aggression was unfolding, we had a positive action - unprecedented - within NATO. It is unprecedented, because NATO is an area where Greece cannot find its point. Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary General and former Prime Minister of Norway - if you remember, was the Prime Minister of the days of which he became that freaky crime of that fascist who killed seventy-six, seventy-seven children in the campus of the socialist youth holidays - announces after the end of the last session, on 23 October, NATO Defence Ministers that Greece and Turkey agreed at their national holidays on 28, 29 October to avoid any actions that could create an involvement. There was a report yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, on how we got there, because Turkey claimed that it made such a proposal. No, the proposal became central by the Secretary-General, which both Greece and Turkey welcomed positively. While this is the case, the second time that the Defence and Foreign Ministers are emptyd in a few days from Erdogan, in order to understand, in practice, what we have usually discussed, we have no doubt anymore, they are overthrown again, and NAVTEX is announced for 27 and 28 October, on the day of our national celebration. At the same time, procedures are being carried out to demonstrate Turkey's isolation from the West. We, as a movement of change, first of all since these last actions have characterised Turkey as a state of turmoil. The Member States - despite the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said it today or yesterday - said it. That's right. We are the first to say this because these actions are not the actions of President Erdogan concerning Greek-Turkish, but they are generally related to his relations with the West. So while this is happening and the horror of the murder, the beheading of the French professor by a Checheno Islamist is taking place and relations between Turkey and France are being aggravated as a imprint of the removal of the state - a turmoil and of its conflict with the West, the Greek Parliament, on the initiative of not naming who - it has no meaning - but also with a response from the majority, is being lured into a foolish dialogue, which does not help. It's not helping our country. We stress this and I estimate that there will be serious follow-up by the Heads of New Democracy and SYRIZA. It is not Parliament's place to exchange arguments and reproach of one another from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u216	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u217	I'll be done. This kind of controversy does not do good in the country. In the country it would do well if the opposite opinions were expressed, which are forgiven in a democracy and foreign policy issues, were also taken on different approaches. For God's sake, of course, they do. The Council of Political Heads which we have first proposed is the place for them, not the National Representation. The National Representation must show restraint. Mrs Gennimatas was the first to stress the need to convene this Council of Political Heads. The idea and proposal have been rejected. What do we have in the evolution of things? It was like today's and yesterday's in Parliament's Chamber. They don't do good at home, they don't do good for our foreign policy. And it is vague in its direction: contact with ridiculousness is offensive to the perpetrators, but when it happens in this Chamber it hurts the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Christos Tarantilis from New Democracy is called in Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by tabling the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Critical Opposition did not do so responsibly, but unfortunately opportunely. It proposes its own micro-political interests in relation to the major national issues that call for proper treatment. At a time when the government is fighting for our national issues in response to the extreme Turkish provocation and aggression in the Aegean Sea, at a time when the Prime Minister was preparing to present a proclamation of new very important measures for the protection of citizens from pandemic, in a day with high symbolism for justice and democracy, the day of the historic condemnation of neo-naziism and fascist violence, SYRIZA comes and chooses polarisation once again and put forward a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. This is a timely opposition, based on the alteration and corruption of reality, aimed at restoring the democratic collapse of SYRIZA. It seems that SYRIZA's weakness, which leads him to political hypocrisy, is the hypocrisy that reveals his political discomfort. And why am I saying that? With the choices and tax policy of the SYRIZA government, we all know that the debts of the citizens have increased in tax revenue and the funds at the rate of one billion euros. It was the government of SYRIZA that introduced electronic auctions in November 2017 and carried out more than twenty-five thousand auctions at the same time as you promised seismicity. And because it is very important that we all honour the meaning and essence of the words we are using, it is very important to think that not only seismicism were we not, but the abundance of private debt has increased by EUR 55 billion. It was also the government of SYRIZA that horizontally abolished the protection of first residence in February 2019 under Laws 4346 of 2015 and 4592 of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure has been made on the occasion of a bill that supports the truly weak to repay their debts, and that is precisely why it gives them a second chance of exempting them from the derogating treatment of the market, clearly separate them from the strategic bad payers. This draft law serves innovation and transparency, because for the first time a preventive early warning mechanism is introduced for the debtor in order to avoid bankruptcy, while the out-of-court regulation mechanism has the potential for every citizen to regulate his overall debt through transparent, rapid, digitised procedures, of course contrary to the time-consuming procedures of the Katseli Act. The bill also serves social sensitivity and justice. Yes, vulnerable households are favoured, since the Code provides that for the purpose of debt regulation no confiscations will be made, no auctions will be made. In addition, if the citizen fails to comply with his regulation, then it is possible to stay at home and with a subsidy from the state for twelve years to be able at this time to rebuild the property. Furthermore, strategic malpractices, which are the main contributor to the system, are more easily identified by removing banking and tax confidentiality and controlling the property inside and outside Greece. The bill also serves growth and entrepreneurship. In fact, we'll finally have business start-ups. We need to know that a truly large proportion of potential entrepreneurs are currently out of place with the current regime. They are now being given the second opportunity to react again, and what is the result of this? Strengthen the country's competitiveness. Also, with the attempted resolution of banks from non-performing loans, liquidity is being put on the market once again for new, healthy investments, with honest entrepreneurs, who, you know, may have tried, tested, perhaps lost, but at the end of the day this experience of failure can be a catalyst of future success both for them and for our country. In conclusion, I should like to make two specific points. The first point is that we need now rather than ever a sound piece of legislation, which provides filters for the restoration of injustices, injustices which are clearly affecting the vulnerable and leaving strategic mispaid. We now need more than ever a framework that these strategic poor payers will not let them be in the unavoidable and truly reward people who observe all deadlines and are the right ones to their credit obligations. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are very clear about the reasons I have analysed, we are voting against the motion of censure towards the Minister of Finance and we support Christos Staikos as Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis, is called at Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in Parliament a motion of censure is both pretext and impeccable. A pretext because it really does not aim for the Minister of Finance, is not about the bankruptcy code bill, but in fact it is intended to cover up the contradictions, the different trends, it is actually about the inner-party opposition of the SYRIZA. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. This is because at a time when the country is being called upon to face the consequences of the pandemic, like the whole world, at the same time Greece is being called upon to face Turkey's provocative behaviour in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether the differences in SYRIZA were so great that Mr Tsakalotou would be removed that he would consider SYRIZA to be moving autonomously and exercising a personal policy. But what I know is that all our government ministers operate within the framework of government policy and, of course, on the basis of the directives and priorities set by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The citizens, ladies and gentlemen, approved this policy by their vote 15 months ago. The implementation of this policy is overwhelming, according to the latest polls, and for this policy they declare their confidence with very large percentages in the face of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the conclusion of this debate will demonstrate the SYRIZA's inability to go hand in hand with social priorities. It will show SYRIZA's inability to behave responsibly. It will demonstrate the impossibility of proposing solutions to the citizens' real problems. And you know, it doesn't make us any more impression. When they have reached the point of adopting unfounded and unambiguous information about the attitude of the officials of the Port Authority, this is a great deal. You realise that this is how you adopt Turkish propaganda. You do not blame the Greek Government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You don't blame the Greek Government, you blame Greece. And you must take this very seriously, because the representatives of the Port Corps have shown that they are defending our country's maritime borders with determination, with full respect for International Law and the rules of involvement of the sea and, of course, with absolute priority in respect of human life. I understand that many of you are disturbed, both inside and outside Greece, with the very great determination that is being attempted by the representatives of the Port Authority. Only in the last month have migration flows decreased by 98% over the previous period of 2019 and so has it for October. I understand, therefore, that this decisive attitude of the representatives of the Port Authority has annoyed many. However, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to defend ourselves with the same determination and always on the basis of the rules of international law and international legality, the maritime borders of our country, the European Union's maritime borders. Ladies and gentlemen, the ultimate strategic priority of the Mitsotakis Government is the preservation of our country's maritime borders to the highest degree, which is why, at the moment, a very large programme of armaments of the Port Authority of more than EUR 600 million is under way, and for the next programme, the armament programme will exceed EUR 800 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure will be rejected. We trust the Minister of Finance. The government has the confidence of the Greek Parliament, but most importantly it has the confidence of the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, a Parliamentary representative from Mera25, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take from my tritology, too. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once again in Mera25, we feel justified in terms of the correct forecasts and interpretations we have had in relation to the procedure that takes place on the third day today. The truth is that there has been no issue of topicality outside of the issue, which is not mentioned in these long-term meetings, proving what we said was completely disorientated by the major draft law of the Banking Code. Greek-Turkish, digital transformation, the final state, refugee, migration, energy, insurance, the management of the pandemic, the media landscape, the governance of George Papandreou, the list of Pechas, the trial of Golden Dawn, the sports events, the Ambassadors' Agreement, the square movements, the polls. Even Tatoi got into the game of impressions. Of course, the Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr. Chrysochoidis, who, without any sign of contraction for the fiasco of escapeing the doomed member of the Golden Dawn, appeared to repeat the horizontal doctrine of "law and order" and to blame us with a great deal of courage for the plight of self-sufficient and self-sufficient press releases of the GDR, swinging the finger on the internal enemies that New Democracy has built. We are talking about the minors, we are talking about the young people of the country, that is to say, those who the government with statements of officials and the Prime Minister is targeting, by governmental presumption of irresponsible and dangerous, just as irresponsible and dangerous, they regard Greek debtors as debtors with bankruptcy law. It happened, then, that exactly what we suspected with mathematical accuracy: Disorderation, on either side of the reproduction of inaccuracy and make news, cockfighting and unimpressed impressions. In terms of sports, to say it this way, SYRIZA gave the government the best fascist. She has been allowed to present herself with all her staff, to disperse inaccurate once again, to excavate with inconceivable leaps of logic and make news as a salutary all this work, which we see to be disastrous to Greek citizens, and all that while there is no Greek who does not know that this government has a scandalous privileged relationship with the majority of the media. We therefore consider you, colleagues of SYRIZA, to have put butter on the bread of the New Democracy. Of course, we also understand the intention of SYRIZA. He's trying to stay on top of the news in a dominant media landscape admittedly unaccounted for almost all the opposition. And I say this as a member of Mera25, because there is no more characteristic fact that has been excluded from the media from Mera25. We know better than anyone what it means to be muddled at dance and no representatives of Mera25 are present to defend positions and reality in the media. However, we ask this: is such a facility justified in a government like this in exchange for a three-day publicity? So, did Mr. Tsipras have to invite the Prime Minister to a Far West duel? You will obviously have your reasons. We will see, however, that in the end, when both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Controversy speak, this confrontation will evolve into a shadow in a cohort for the two gladiators. But one will say, but the other will respond again from the beginning to unresolved dialogue. It is also clear that you too are served by the diversion, because in the debate on the bankruptcy bill your own memorial policies have emerged. So, the government, too, will lead to a deterioration in politics and Parliament, in order to obtain communication medals, when citizens are faced with a bill - a roller, which will scan their incomes and property, will make them captive to banks and predators. Before we conclude the dialogue on bankruptcy provisions, the second bill of the Fifth Memorandum on speeding up the political trial will be discussed in committee for a week. A bill also serves as a pretext for dictating the banks. However, imperfection was not limited to unacceptable division and disorientation. In this Chamber, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has heard a phrase copy paste against Mr Varoufakis, a phrase from the most perplexed manuals of her alternative right and ideology, an ideology that has been closely embraced by neoliberalism, has been assimilated by the majority of members of the government party and is now leading the political proposal of the New Democracy. So Mr Lebanese repeated twice the controversial phrase on the 'cost of Varoufakis', for which he has not been apologised, has not recalled, and at the same time, of course, the current Members of the New Democracy applauded him. I will not repeat what is insulting and inappropriate remarks have been clearly heard about Giannis Varoufakis, because I think it is not appropriate for this whole process to reproduce this vulgar rhetoric. But let's see what happened to the Greek economy on the day of Mr. Stakoura and what happened on the occasion of Mr. Yanis Varoufakis. I will submit to the Minutes two documents with the official information. We are presenting them, because so far the Minister has not presented them, nor have the Members of the New Democracy presented them, even though we have provoked them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's see what ELSTAT says. The official figures show that for the day of Yiannis Varoufakis GDP fell by 0.78%. With the current Minister between 2012 and 2014, 6.56% of GDP was lost, 12.5 billion euros and from the third quarter of 2019 to the second quarter of 2020 another 4.93% of GDP, i.e. 11.49% or 21.76 billion euros, while in the days of Mr Varoufakis 1.4 billion euros at absolute prices. Therefore, EUR 1.4 billion for Mr Varoufakis' day, EUR 21.76 billion for Mr Stakora's day. Between the first half of 2019 and the first half of 2020 GDP fell by almost 11%. So all this reveals the great lie of a government of communication show, specializing in the murder of characters, with propaganda alone. So I close my position, reminding you that at Mera25 we don't get a bite on fakes, we're neither with the ranger, nor with the policeman. We are with the Greeks, with the Greeks, and we are with them and we will continue to stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, too. What I am going to say now is mine has nothing to do with the Bureau. Because I see two, three people from 9.00 a.m. in the Chamber and a beam will not speak if you shorten your time and colleagues and ministers will perhaps be able to speak. This is my request. Besides, in this life you give a soul, you'll get a heart. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u226	You're welcome, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u227	After you said that, I must tell you that on the part of our group - I think that other groups will agree - we do not agree with 20.00 hours. Mr. Tasoulas said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u228	But at that time, you didn't say anything. You didn't say anything when Mrs. Cassimatis was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Tasoulas said that with the evolution of things, we'll see how things go. That's what we agreed on. And I want you to convey as the Bureau, that we consider that 20.00 hours is totally arbitrary. In other words, workers can sit longer and get paper too. Because I do not think any democratic citizen will say that the workers of this House cannot go a little late. I would like to say that there is no question of it. So, we really think - since you're nervous enough to talk to those of you at 20.00 a.m. - the time is completely arbitrary. We can go by 22:00, by 23:00 and vote at midnight. There's no limit. So please transfer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Manolakus, for example, has been here since 9:00. I saw him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u231	But I don't want Mr. Manolakou either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u232	I understand what you're saying. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u233	I totally agree with Mr. Chakaloto. I remember yesterday when a colleague of yours from the Bureau announced this option, he asked the House if he would agree to 20 a.m. and agreed to all parties except us. Mr Kegeroglu flew and said, 'We do not agree'. I'm happy with this change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u234	I saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u235	You need to see it, Mr President. Why 20:00?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u236	I'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u237	I understand it can't be done at midnight, because we can go back to our homes after our work any time we can, but the employees in this House can't. Let's go at 23:00. But why, at 20:00?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u238	They can take a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u239	It's the restriction, Mr. Chakaloto. He's right about the employees. We'll see, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking the motion of censure under Rule 142 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure against the Minister of Finance, and we are proposing that, despite parliamentary morals, the government has not prompted a proposal of confidence by the Government itself and that, in our view, means something. The reason for today's motion of censure is the bill bearing the false title 'Adjustment of debts and a second chance'. First of all, I would like to stick to the fact that a number of the majority Members have supported the fact of the juncture, namely a point of order, that the country is going through critical national moments and that process is giving the wrong signals. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that the country with the largest parliamentary tradition, the United Kingdom, even in the times of the Second World War, where the "Battle of England" was being conducted, or was planning the second front, had full parliamentary functions. The Great Britain Parliament was working properly and no one thought to suspend or restrict the operation due to the truly exceptional and exceptional circumstances prevailing in that country. Secondly and equally important: we as SYRIZA do not want to make Mr Erdogan a barometer of the country's political controversy. We have, as parliament, the full responsibility for our choices, and we here will be opposed to the major problems and not having in mind what Erdogan will say or how to take it. It is therefore an act of confidence in Parliament's political processes. I now come to her as a starting point of the motion of censure against the Minister. What's in her? What's her base? What is the basis for this false draft law on the bankruptcy of natural persons and businesses and the provision of a second chance? We see in this particular bill that this decisive approach is dominated by the majority that the citizen is not a citizen, but a businessman. That's how he takes him, unilaterally. And that's why it leads him to a similar attitude to the commercial business. In Article 1, you set a clear objective, the liquidation of the assets without putting at no time a thinking, a reflection, if any, other ways than liquidation. Clearly, there are businesses that need to go bankrupt and liquidate their bankruptcy, but there are businesses - and, obviously, citizens - who can avoid this suffering. You aim directly at liquidation. Secondly, you are establishing the liquidation of natural persons. We know that there is a liquidation of natural persons in the international legal order. I would point out, however, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that this bankruptcy is another legal framework and does not go on with the bankruptcy code. It is a process similar to the one we had with the Katselis - Stathakis laws, where, for the majority of these states, the citizen retains his first residence. Thirdly, we are extremely keen on this process, because we combine it with the amendment of the provisions of Law 3869, namely the Katseli-Stathakis law, which is already in court. The draft law comes to Parliament - Thursday, I think, is the first debate in committee - where there are identified cases. You shorten them up. You are putting additional procedures in place to make it difficult for the citizen and in fact a lot of those who have tried to lose the opportunity to be tried by their natural judges. With the proposed draft law, the private person, the citizen has no reason to go bankrupt. The bankruptcy is moving in his absentia. The fund is starting to go bankrupt without this man being able to react. Even in the process of bankruptcy, it is not compulsory at all. And what you are doing and it is terrible is that you are saying to all the majority Members that it has been protected for twelve years. It's a lie, colleagues. He hasn't been protected for twelve years to stay at his house. A small proportion of the citizens, those considered vulnerable, have been staying at their home for 12 years, paying rent for 12 years, which is not taken into account in the final purchase amount, if and since after 12 years they can buy their home. And you do something else: everything that the poor can and has collected and earned over the minimum cost of living is also bankruptcy and that goes for creditors too. So, what's the second chance? What's the second chance for? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: a number of colleagues have gone through speaking about electronic auctions. And it is indicative that an elementary modernisation of your implementation process system has found you across the street. Do you forget that, with the physical presence of the auction participants, a whole system of cords has been set up by bracelets that prevented successful tenderers? You are talking about twenty-five thousand auctions on SYRIZA in four and a half years, while one case of first home was not included. Secondly, these were auctions between people who had to take, possibly the employer, and even the nutrition claims. So I close by saying that you are bringing something that crosses what we knew as a rightful system and as a Greek society. This is clearly represented in the Minister for Finance. That's the point of the motion of censure that we make on his face. And we call on colleagues to vote and to be taken consciously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Niki Kerameos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the debate on the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos. Why, colleagues of SYRIZA, have you tabled this motion of censure? Why - quite rightly - have the Minister of Finance and the Government failed to support employees, freelance professionals, households? Obviously not. Is it possible for SYRIZA to defend the employees, the professionals, the households when he targeted them and managed to destroy them financially within four years? On the other hand, the New Democracy Government, which, in order to make only an indicative list, reduced the VAT, reduced HICP, reduced the insurance contributions, reduced the income tax on legal persons, reduced the income tax advance, increased the tax on each child, introduced a strong tax incentive to invest in a green economy, energy and digitalisation, gave incentives for newly-born businesses, for scientific and technological research costs. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you leave the Government of New Democracy as if you never crossed the wheel of the country with the remarks known to everyone. Did you submit a motion of censure, why are you really interested in protecting the first residence? Obviously not. It was your government that abolished the law on the protection of first residence. It was the government of SYRIZA that created a temporary law that did not protect citizens' property, does not protect bank accounts, wages and pensions. It is also you who created movements of indignant in the squares with slogans such as 'No house in the hands of a banker'. And it is again for your days when the auctions increased by 185% and the deposits of 54% in 2018 compared to 2017, according to ELSTAT. Did you tabled the motion of censure, why are you concerned about its pandemic and its consequences? And I say this because you are starting the motion of censure by stressing - and I read from your proposal - that it is at the most alarmingly high point of its manifestation. And what did you do about it? For months, you have unfortunately invested in destructive and toxicology. You are undermining every collective effort of the government and citizens. You question the internationally accepted fact that our country has done better than many others in tackling this unprecedented health crisis. Cultivate fear, even for the sensitive school environment. You were struggling, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the first wave of pandemic to keep schools from opening in May. You wanted our children to stay in the dark for six months, while the epidemiological evidence allowed our children to be found back in their natural space at school. And finally, their return went extremely smooth. And now, again since September, you've been constantly in danger. Inform inconsistently by saying, for example, that we have hired twenty thousand fewer teachers, while the reality is that we have hired more than twice as many as those you hired, for example in 2016, just to meet the increased needs of the coronary. You're ruining, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And it disturbs you that the data so far shows in our schools that our children are safer, thanks to the superhuman efforts that the educational community has made to abide by, exemplaryly, measures. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the reality behind this motion of censure? Can we talk about things like they really are? You have no anxiety for the employees, the professionals, the households. You are not really interested in protecting first home. You have no capacity and no desire to defend the finances of small and medium-sized enterprises, and of course you are not concerned about the pandemic and its consequences for children and schools. All you care about is disorientate the conversation from your intangible political path and your internal deadlocks and rally your audience around a revolution without cause. Reaction to reaction, irresponsibility, demagogue. At the same time, unfortunately, you also have the same attitude on education, although in the midst of a pandemic, we have already implemented and started other reforms, aimed at a more modern, more autonomous, more free, more outward-looking system, starting from the bottom to the bottom, from the foundations, with the application of the kindergarten from the age of four, almost all municipalities in the country, with the introduction of a second language - English - from the kindergarten - through the creation of skills workshops and their introduction from kindergartens up to the high schools and high schools for the cultivation of mild skills, digital skills, through themes, such as volunteering, respect for the other and in diversity, sexual education, protection of the environment, road safety, robotic, entrepreneurship. Also, by strengthening and broadening the institution of model and experimental schools, including evaluation at all levels of education, by modernising books and curricula, some of which have not been informed, ladies and gentlemen, since 1990, by means of actions for the training of our teachers and the better staffing of our schools, through overall reform of vocational education, training and lifelong learning put in public consultation, with the establishment of the National Higher Education Authority, by establishing financing our universities, subject to objective and qualitative criteria, following evaluation, by liberalising postgraduate studies and research carried out by the past, by establishing additional tools for the conclusion of international meetings with the universities abroad, in order to conquer our country's position which is truly worthy of the international academic map, with the immediate response to the conditions created by the pandemic and the transfer of the entire educational process to the first phase of education process, in order to build on the best-to-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-na-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-na-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-na-be-be-be-be-na-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-be-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-le-na-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le-le- And you - and I am addressing Civic Regression - have not only supported these political choices, but you are always across, permanently in regression, always struggling to cause noise, as today, without substance, without cause, without result. We find a solution to every problem, you are looking for a solution and, unfortunately, you do not want to discuss it, as was shown by your refusal to call for dialogue in the light of the reform of vocational education and training. Ladies and gentlemen, Opposition and, in particular, Democratisation plays a key role in our democracy, especially in the difficult conditions that we are experiencing. Unity, responsibility, cooperation are necessary, so that we can help all of our countries to respond in the most effective way to the unprecedented crises it faces. Let us all stand together, ladies and gentlemen, to the extent of the circumstances! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos, for his tritology, for three minutes. The parliamentary representative will then speak with SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos and I thank him very much, and then we will go to the Minister, Mr Karamanlis. Mr. Villard, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, we had no decision for five Members...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u245	Why don't you put two Members - Parliamentary, two MPs - Parliamentary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u246	Because Mr. Chakalotos wants it now. Under the Rules of Procedure, whenever he wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u247	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u248	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Levane, go tell them from there, don't speak at the same time, Mr. Levane...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u250	I have nothing to say because I see him upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u251	How can I not be upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u252	Ms. Agerinopoulou has a serious problem and she wants to talk. Please! With me he's upset, Mr. Levane, he's not with you. Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u253	I would speak from the Chair, but I can't with the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u254	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u255	First of all, we agree with the request made by Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Loverdos that nothing will happen if the meeting lasts a little longer. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u256	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u257	I just want to say that we agree, I don't want to interfere in the intervening because as you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Levane, it happened before the conversation, you weren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u259	I heard her, I heard her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u260	For the bill - an abortion we do not need to say anything more, we have analysed it many times. As far as we are concerned, it is not, of course, about the Minister of Finance, but about the government he represents and which has only one failure in its assets - huge failures - what we have seen is that he constantly invokes two so-called successes. The first relates to the six-month recession which was lower in Greece than in other euro area countries. In this respect, it does not mention, on the one hand, that Greece has a fall in GDP of 25%, while the other countries have an average growth of 10%, on the other hand, the third quarter will show reality, because it is the most powerful in Greece because of its failed tourist and economic model. Really, what do ELSTAT's revised data mean? Again Greek statistics? Is the draft budget inappropriate? Do you realize the consequences for our exorbitant public and'red' private debt? Do you still think it's sustainable? What are you doing about the fatal disease of deflation? The second concerns our lending at low interest rates, mainly due to our bond markets, on behalf of the European Central Bank, which Mr Skeylakakis has said demonstrates its confidence in the government. Obviously, it is the German who controls it, since he is convinced that the government will sell everything out. Also, how it will give whatever exchanges it is asked for, even our territorial or maritime sovereignty. While it will continue to serve it - the Greek Government means Germany - with a plucky head, as it always does to this day. On the other hand, no one is proud of his lending, which is even higher in debt. It's totally stupid. One is proud to pay off one's debts, not when one raises them. In addition, we have stressed several times that six trillions of Eurozone bonds are negotiating at negative interest rates. Negatively, below zero. Finally, what matters is the real interest rate, not the nominal rate. We have pointed out dozens of times that the actual interest rate is the nominal plus deflation, which means that for Greece, 1.18% plus 2.3% and thus a real interest rate of 3.5%, as much as it was at times SYRIZA. In the case of enterprises borrowed at more than 4.5% nominal interest rate on average, the actual interest rate is obviously more than 6.5%, so completely destructive. We have also mentioned you for a comparison of bankrupt Turkey, which is experiencing a terrible monetary crisis and which is now borrowing with 14%, but has inflation of 11.75%. Therefore, its actual interest rate, the nominal rate minus inflation, is only 2.25% compared with 3.5% of Greece. Can't you understand? In conclusion, do you think there is a future for a country under your own management with a public debt of more than 200% of its GDP, with a'red' private debt of over 150%, with a 10% deficit in its budget, which also increases the public debt, with a corresponding deficit in its current account, which increases its private external debt, with a defective production web, with a failed economic model, with national, social and so many other problems? Do you believe in miracles? Indeed, can one really believe today that the memos - how much rather the PSI - had positive effects for Greece? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The parliamentary representative from SYRIZA Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, I propose that, if you wish, for a compromise on what we had, two Members speak, that I speak, three Members speak, and then that Mr Karamanlis speak, and that we keep the 50 Members of Parliament between two ministers, as we have said. If he accepts the proposal, and Mr Karamanlis, I think that helps everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, because you are making it very easy for me, but above all Mr Karamanlis. Would you like to speak after two Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u264	After three MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u265	Good. Mrs Dionysia - Theodora Agrinopoulou from New Democracy is therefore called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that has taken place so far in Parliament shows that the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition actually takes place for no reason, just to please its own party audience. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution, the motion of censure examines whether or not the majority of the Members of the Government or any of its Ministers continue to be supported. As long as no one is questioned today by any of the support that all the Members of the New Democracy give to the face of Mr Staikoras, but also to all the members of the government, obviously the motion of censure also has no reason to support. It is not only the New Democracy Members who are the majority in this Parliament who support him. The most important support for the work of his and the government comes directly from the Greek people. The great majority of the Greek people, if asked today how this government is going through its life, with what moral and political values and with what efficiency it considers to be absolutely positive. Our people for the first time after the years of SYRIZA rule again feel safe and show confidence in the government that holds the fate of the country in its hands. That's the reality. In fact, the motion of censure is being exercised and employs the entire government and Parliament for no reason, when the Greek fleet is in the Aegean Sea, Cyprus is continuing to violate international agreements and internally in our country, the precursor course of the coronary continues. As far as the bill is concerned, you are asking us to withdraw arrangements that many fellow citizens have been waiting for us so long and that will allow debtors to regulate their outstandings in a more favourable manner than today. The bill actually gives our fellow citizens a second chance not to lose their homes, not to lose their first residence and property. They are given the opportunity to regulate their loans in more instalments, to remain in their homes even if they are unable to regulate their debt, to resume their business, to gain their lost pride. If you had a better proposal than this, why didn't you apply it when you were government? And if even now you have a better proposal, why don't you suggest we talk about it? What is the point of the motion of censure? One thing is for sure. Many of our fellow citizens have no work and income to repay their loans. We must give them this second opportunity now for a sustainable adjustment of their loans. We must focus together all our efforts to bring new investments to our country, create new jobs and relaunch our economy. That's our target. I therefore vote against the motion of censure and declare my trust in the person of the Minister of Finance. Finally, because of the worldwide day's breast cancer celebration, I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis' initiative on launching a free mammography program every two years for every woman aged nine and fifty years. All women must be able to examine in good time. Prevention in health gives life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs Agerinopoulou. She's very kind. He has a serious problem, and yet he did less than everyone. Mr Christos Spirtzis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA and the First East Attica. Because you're old too, don't eat at me the time Mrs. Agerinopoulou left. Here, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, although the motion of censure is addressed to the Minister of Finance, many ministers of government and within them, and the Minister of Civil Protection feels that a motion of censure has been made for those who have become fifteen months and is quite reasonable. There is a more general issue in the government, when its inadequacy in critical areas, but also in simple management issues, is so obvious that it is not covered either by a trik nor by the government's excellent communication tactics. We must therefore show, in addition to today's draft law, what has been heard these three days. We must highlight the fascist view expressed by Mr Mitsotakis in the run-up to the elections, and also by New Democracy officials, that you want to defeat us not for what we have done, but for what we believe. Firstly, the Minister of Citizen Protection throughout his post identified the Ministry's political leadership and himself with the Greek Police. This is the definition of the concept of the status quo, the old "black" of Greece, the ranger and the police state. These are the two conflicting worlds, the tradition of the Right, the Greece of pride and the police of democracy. Secondly, Mr Chrysochoidis said that we targeted him and therefore the Greek Police for the disappearance of the fugitive Nazi Papa and that we gave our change. He also taught us a lesson in prisons and exiles. Mr President - and let us not count this in time - I would like to express our deep grief about the death of Nikos Belogannis today, the son of Nikos Belogannis and the Greek Papapas. Did you see the junction sometime? We, ladies and gentlemen, are neither targeting persons nor bodies nor collectives nor opponents. It is neither in our culture nor in our history nor in our principles. You're probably confused with the inside of your lineup and your tradition. But when such a golden fiasco like that of the Golden Nazi Papa occurs, a democratic government assumes its responsibilities and does not move the finger. Fifteen days you leaked into the media, and that informed citizens of the preparedness and plan for arrest of the Golden Dawn criminals. Fifteen days of so-called trade unionists, identified with the New Democracy, said laughing at all the channels that there is no way out. Fifteen months didn't ask you or the Minister of Justice, as you said, for the Nazi Pope to be supervised by the police. So confident that no one's leaving? The Minister also said that he found a police force without equipment and without a plan, but 15 months now he receives the results of our own competitions. He doesn't do the same for what he found. And we ask this: is it true that police radios were not working a few days before the incident where police officers were injured and the citizen? He said he didn't find a staff member. Is that a reproach to the former police chief who today is a Secretary-General? And finally, he said "without morality". We respond: without morals they were the right-wing chambers of police that are now unraveled and not the overwhelming majority of the democratic police officers who are serving both the Constitution and democracy, the special guards you hire outside the pan-Hellenics, without education. One was caught blackmailing, yesterday another - new child - killed his brother. And you're swinging our finger again! They're being trained by trade union parrots. Of course, the phenomena of police violence then, like in the Indian house, the arrests in cinemas, the behaviors on the streets by so-called policemen - are not policemen - are common. And what happened to the Alivizato Commission's report? The timeline? You said we were making soap operas with new kids. Don't you know how it's attempting to terrorize students, parents, teachers with one or two police attorneys for the occupations? Don't you understand what a fourteen-year-old kid is like to be four days in GDR with your own legislation? And you talked about a modern police police that faces border guarding. You want to tell us about the events of beating citizens in Orestiad Square, about the departure from the islands of the northern Aegean and about the fascist behaviors there? Finally, you told us to go to the degraded areas, to Exarchia, to Omonia, to Menidi, to Zephyri. We go every day, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. They're our offices, they're the people we're talking about. You don't go because if you were going, you'd know and see the drug dealers selling drugs next to the kids, next to the schools, the public transport stations, everywhere. And these are, of course, not in the doctrine of law and order. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately you do not know what is happening in Athens' people's neighbourhoods, but you do not know what is going on 50 meters from Maximos. I'm taking two pictures of the day before yesterday. Fifty meters from Maximus is as dense as the concentration was outside the Court of Appeal. Except that's where you didn't break it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The cultivation, Minister, of disobedience culture and other phenomena find fertile ground with your policy of terrorism, from two measures and two weights, from fascist perceptions, from choices and like the one you chose to dismantle the peaceful gathering at the Court of Appeal. You're not talking to anyone. You don't even hear the Council of State, which has made an anti-constitutional and the final state with the ERT and KYA of the great walk, the Arion Ice for the Law of Meetings, the social actors who disagreed with an abortion of auctions today. Institute the bankruptcy of man. Is that the feeling, the culture you have for man? Haven't you ever felt the first of the month putting the key in the lock and not having to pay wages, IKA, tax, rent, VAT? Haven't you ever felt that? Haven't you ever worked twelve, fourteen, sixteen hours and not pay you? Haven't you lived the trouble of being inside the store and not entering human beings? Hasn't he heard what it's like to get a man into TIERISIA? Minister, for God's sake! You are accusing us of the motion of censure and that we are not trustworthy Census. What did you want us to do? Should we tell the banks and the funds "good-eaters the houses of the Greek people"? What did you want to say? Or did you want to say what you did, which is the hypocrisy of her majesty, that you made a motion of censure on the Prespecies Agreement with the national issue openly a few months ago? And we hear Mr Gerapetti saying that the national red line is at six miles, Mr Chrysochide saying that we are using dangerous weapons to survive, such as nationalism for twelve miles. Mercy! You are tolerated every insult from Turkey, at least don't give us lessons of democracy and patriotism to us at least. And I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting and we have tabled the motion of censure because these marbles are not revised here, neither patriotism nor democracy nor the value of human beings are reformed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too. We continue with SYRIZA and Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos' parliamentary representative for six minutes, it is a second. Then there's Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first I heard it from Mr Gerapetti. Then I heard it from Mr. Georgiadis. After Mr. Voridis, more fun I have to tell you, as always. After too many Members, this motion of censure is not against Mr Stakoura, but it is against the former Minister of Finance. And since I like to be involved with arguments, and I imagine when the Minister of State says so, and so many ministers are not funny, it is a serious argument that it is against me, two versions I take as a case of work. The first is to vote on it. Since it's against me, what you have to do is vote on it. The second version is that you do not vote because you consider it an unfair reproach because it is against me and you are convinced by the arguments I am saying and you understand that the arguments you say do not hold back. And you have realised that other dusts you give the MPs and other reality. 'Cause of course there were auctions in our government. We're telling you it wasn't first home, but you keep telling it as if it had anything to do with this thing. You don't hear any arguments. I certainly said in a speech to the House as Finance Minister that auctions should be held, that we should go back to normality, that this will help growth, that the banks should be able to provide new loans. But underneath I've made a whole rationale, how long, how long it will take us to be in a normality for this liberation and who will always be protected, in the same speech. You do not take this into account and you continue to say that the former Minister did twenty-five thousand auctions, it is in favour of auctions. That is not the case, it is not the case. Because what I said and repeat is that in financially difficult cases, when there is a problem of austerity, we must be very pitiful with auctioning, it must be limited - and I try to convince you that we are a difficult treaty again - and that some people are vulnerable and want protection even when we return to normality. And one of the things, since this is the conversation, which I am very proud to see is that SYRIZA was the first government in the post-Civilisation to have a housing policy. We had a housing policy, work on many corridors to get to what we wanted and do our housing policy and rent subsidies. And we do health stuff too. How did you feel when Mr Blonde spoke, ladies and gentlemen? And how does women feel, especially on your side, when your Prime Minister says that "I am announcing that from fifty or more times the test will be free" and read to you that this applies to women forty years now? Is that how we are going to have a debate on social policy too? That the Prime Minister's going on this day too, and he doesn't know what the regime is? How did you feel? And keep going. I won't tell the big lie, Mrs. Keramea. Do you really think that we, the workers and the households and the middle class, destroyed when we had growth - small growth - in 2015-2019 and not when you had 24% of GDP reduction? Let me tell you a bigger lie. Do you know what the great lie of PASOK and New Democracy is? That in 2009, after years of growth, we had a huge problem of poverty and child poverty. You know that? So our policy must take this into account that social policy, we need now because of a crisis, but we needed it anyway, because in 2009, after so many years of development, we had the largest numbers of poverty across Europe. We can have this debate that you are now putting down a preliminary draft budget, which does not seem to understand, and which, with your figures, seems to increase inequalities and does not say rebuild the social state. If you want to know why this motion of censure exists, it is a question of democracy, because it is not just what you are saying and you are not dealing with the arguments. You don't hear the opponent. You cannot deal with the arguments with counter-protects. You'll say the same again. Mr. Stagiras will have the same diagrams he has prepared before he comes here without hearing what we're saying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Not even 30 seconds, Mr President, I won't need it. It is that this is starting to go through society and we need to do something, because sooner or later the reactions will be harder for you, because you have not prepared the world for the difficulties they have ahead. Just like you didn't prepare him for the second wave. In the summer you almost said it was over, and now we have the second wave. The economic policy you are driving and have not explained to us why you are not using the pillow a little more, will cause great problems. This reproach is a matter of democracy. We don't have a lot of guns as an Opposition. We have this weapon, we do everything we can to raise citizens. We invite them and all the parties of counter-population to this awareness to put back on a different policy before it is too late. And democracy needs to go through the media too. It's not going through. And be sure with others and others on the left, we will do everything to get through to have something to do with reality. And reality is a very tough nut, and it will once come to the surface. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, too. Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis is called to Stepma by New Democracy, who has an anniversary today. We should give him the reason why he shouldn't leave the one-stone in his pocket.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, on time I took the floor, you did not make it easy for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u273	Not Mr. Karamanlis has made you retreat. I didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the motion of censure with the Minister of Finance, I will speak with sense of humour. If I were, ladies and gentlemen, a member of the Oscar Committee in the short documentary entitled 'Atonism' directed by the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras and the protagonist, the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, I would sincerely give the two statues of the directorship to Mr Tsipras and the protagonist to Mr Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u275	Why short?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u276	What is it, ladies and gentlemen, that is disgusting? Make a proposal of distrust to the Minister of Finance for this bill, when it has been signed by seven Ministers and approved by the Ministerial Council and by Mr Prime Minister Kyriakos Konstantinos Mitsotakis. So Mr Stavros did not submit a bill reflecting his personal views, but this bill reflects the views of the entire New Democracy Government. So the motion of censure had to be addressed to the government. And I ask you one question: do you dare to table a motion of censure against the government? Because you talked about everything, about Mr. Chrysochoidis, about Mr. Panayotopoulos, about Mrs. Kerameos, you talked about everyone. Proposal and guts do you have to submit a motion of censure? I'll give it to you. Oh, no. And why? Because you have steam. You've got steam! So if the government with this bill, which, in your opinion, impoverishes the Greeks and leads them to destruction and all the other things that we have heard from you in this Parliament, then, ladies and gentlemen, ask for elections, for the place to be free, you to come back to command and rule. And you will be judged by the Greek people. All you do, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal, is to turn your back on the serious problems of the country, by exercising - let me say, because I am a mild man - a sterile, inexpensive opposition, looking only at inside your audience and the problems you face as a party, as is said. So dare and ask for elections. If you don't do it then be content with the Oscar of steam that I'd give you if I was a judge of the Oscars. And you dare not do it against the government, because you are intelligent people and educated and educated and you know from politics. And you don't do it because the realities of your government are such that when compared to the events of today's government, they will still lead you to a great painful defeat. We, the Members of the New Democracy, will support the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, but also every Minister of Government, in order to solve every problem, because unsolved problems when you do not get rid of them are avenged. And I would like to end, ladies and gentlemen, although I am a young man in this Chamber, I should like to address to the young Members of Parliament and to some of the left-wing strayers whom you have brought them into your vagina.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u277	There aren't any.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u278	Aren't there? No one understands by boiling, shouting and screaming. Knowledge comes with the work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to finish, ladies and gentlemen, with something that has given me no good impression. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for patriotism certificates for Mr Tsipras. Man has become a prime minister, no one doubts his patriotism for any Prime Minister. But, certificates from Mr. Ragosi, it's probably bad for him. I remind you, because it seems we all have a weak memory, on 29-5-2015, he had said and wrote on his Twitter: "Tsipras, the most dishonest Prime Minister of Postpopulation". I'm making my cross. On 30-6-2015 he said: “Mr. Tsipras is sickly ill.” On 14-7-2016 he said: "Tsipras is so small that it makes you feel that now when you criticize him, it's like stealing churches". Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to say less, to make designations less and the more we go over the phrase 'political fraud', the more the House will walk well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr Hatzidakis. I will give Mr Georgios Arvanitides the floor from the Change Movement, because this is where they speak SYRIZA, New Democracy, then the Minister, and we will see how the time is left now, because we will close with Mr Lebanese, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new bankruptcy law brought by the government was a good opportunity to compare the history and the facts of all of us. Compare for our past, for our present and also for the future that we reserve with our proposals for the Greek economy and the Greek society. Compare Law 3869 on the protection of borrowers of PASOK, which we have brought in difficult conditions, a comparison with the SYRIZA's failed platforms and the refusal so far by the government to bring legislation to protect the first home. To compare the proposal put forward by the Change Movement since May 2020 on the establishment of a Intergroup Committee in Parliament for the Protection of First Housing and a Modern Banking Law, with the Arable - simple consultation of more than two hundred seventy articles, without even passing through Parliament's Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee. To compare more generally the different philosophies and approaches to how political forces see the role and importance of a citizen's economic activity, a business in modern society, a society called upon by rapid changing conditions of multiple crises to find a new framework for organisation and sustainable development. With our economy going into an unprecedented orbit of recession, with the coronary pandemic not yet showing all its teeth, without yet knowing the duration and all its economic and social consequences and the disastrous consequences of climate change accumulating ever greater costs to cope with it in states, businesses and people, in this reality the government does not hear the bells of anxiety emanating from the middle-class, small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens at risk of losing their homes. It does not seem to worry about the warnings of IOBE that, unless a coronary vaccine is found, the Greek economy will sink further in 2021. It does not seem to see what the recent pan-European survey of MAKINZI, which says that half of Europe's small and medium-sized enterprises are being bankrupt. He does not understand that with the incomes of the Greeks shrinking and the cigarette falling dramatically, as the figures published earlier by ELSTAT appear, a safety net needs to be set up that will help those who were in the eye of the cyclone to stand on their feet again. On the contrary, the government prefers to give a second chance to banks and funds to further pressure borrowers and not to give a second real opportunity to businesses by releasing the creative forces of the Greeks to attempt again. Really, who's going to attempt in the future? You don't want the reorganization of business, but the sudden death of traders and professionals. You prefer to directly liquidate the assets and not sustainable debt arrangements from the banks. In short, your Government prefers to give the top hand to banks and insurance companies and not to protect effectively borrowers and guarantors. Really, what about the guarantors who are also numerous? He wants to legalise the economic hostage of citizens and businesses. It takes every prospect of substantial business restructuring and every hope and breath to households. That is why there is no point in mere distrust only to the Minister of Finance, but throughout the government, a government that is constantly arrearing in the market with its decisions. For example, the government has already caused huge turmoil in the real estate market after the arrangements announced for off-site construction. You should know, Minister of Finance, that the banks are putting back pressure on those who have loans with land guarantees, assuming that their value is downgraded and calling for new guarantees from people. It is unacceptable to give such new footprints to the banks to blackmail the borrowers, leading them to desperation and new economic dead ends, economic dead ends created by the Ministry of Environment and Energy's decisions in the field of RES, with the huge deficit of the special ELAP account created solely by the Ministry of Energy's decisions. And it has been created as a result of the reduction of the special EMEMAAR fee decided last year by the Ministry to simply cover power increases in PPC's accounts. If every time we come and change the rules of the game on such crucial issues, then every relationship of trust is lost, every credibility. Of course investors made it clear to the Prime Minister a day ago that their intention is, if the situation is not corrected, to stop their investments. The central question, therefore, is not just distrust to the Minister of Finance, but the overall distrust in the economic philosophy and practice of your Government. We say 'no' to this economic policy that leads to both the economy and society for the second time on the rocks. We say 'no' to the wrong economic question put by the New Democracy, which will already bring about far more negative side effects in the market and in the lives of the citizens in the near future. We say 'no' to the mystical analysis of the government's economy and the future of the middle class. There is a great deal to be done by the Minister of Finance and the New Democracy to move the finger to PASOK today. A little self-criticism and restraint would not hurt. I wonder why we put the country in the euro, which you were unable to manage? And finally stop leaving PASOK and the former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, for "the money is". Money was there and there was a waste of money, waste of health. The years that Mr. Loverdos has ruled, exceptionally, reduced the cost of health to half. Stop drugizing again the future of the Greek economy and society. Stop the distortion of our movement's history and offer that he fought with gods and demons to keep the country upright in the difficult process. Stop reminding us of your evil self, change rot, listen to the cries of society and citizens before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u283	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u284	I'm sorry to intervene on a point of order. You know that I haven't done this for a year and a half for institutional reasons, and I would never consider giving advice to the Bureau or to anything else and to all the President-in-Office. Because it is a top-down procedure and because, from what I have seen, you have chosen to do without moves in the way of a procedure from which eighty Members will be excluded from the debate, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the procedure the President of Parliament - and I am sure he did everything in order to do so - said that in the economy of the debate, as well as in the whole of the Ministerial Council, as is the case in the Rules of Procedure, all the provisions will be taken, so that the maximum number of Members will be able to speak and, if possible, everyone will be able to speak. In this sense, '20.00' and '16.00' now - and that is why I am speaking before the last parliamentary representative - it is clear that it does not correspond to this need, which has actually arisen through the debate. So I repeat the question and the request to the Bureau, to allow Members to speak for at least two to three hours so that we can vote at 22 00 or 22:30. It is not possible to say that at 8 o'clock, eighty-eight Members are stopping on the motion of censure. It's not right. I repeat, I am sure that the President of Parliament and all of you have done everything possible to improve the process. It was not possible in fact. I would ask that, with the approval of the Chamber, we take the meeting more slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u285	We are discussing this, Mr President. Let us be an example for those who steal time. Mr. Kostas Karamanlis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, is currently called at Step. There is no more typical example of prolonging time and looking into the matter for my colleague. That's where we're here. Now we're all right. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of discussing the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition is on its way to the end. After two days of discussion, the truth is that no one from SYRIZA managed to justify why, in the midst of a pandemic and exacerbation in Greek-Turkish have chosen to plunder and divide the country by targeting the Minister of Finance this time. Dear SYRIZA colleagues, you now have a past. You were not a government of the so-called 'first time left' that you cut off wages and pensions twenty-nine times? Were you the ones who abolished in February 2019 the protection of first residence? Aren't you the government, as Mr Stavros said, that you actually introduced electronic auctions? I can only refer you to the former comrade, Mr Lafazani's article in 'NEA'. Your old comrade in his article says that now you remembered where you were in the chairs of the opposition theme of first home protection, while when you were government every Wednesday, as he says, plunged the peace courts with auctioning of houses of poor households. Then you guys, the leftists, the MATs against your comrades who made mobilizations. That is not what Mr Stavros, nor Mr Mitsotakis, said. It is said by the Minister of your own government on the 'first time left'. And after all, you blame the New Democracy and the Minister of Finance, a government doing its program and trying to save the homes in a dead end. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly try to present a part of what we have been doing at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport over the last fifteen months, having to deal with complex problems that we all know are not solved with a magic stick. Let us take them in order, starting with the infrastructure sector. First of all, what we received. To be fair, firstly, to say that some of the projects that we have been receiving are still to be continued. This must also be done by all responsible politicians and by every government in charge. But what else did we receive? Secondly, a series of large projects, national projects that are stuck. And thirdly, zero maturity of new projects. The previous leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure has not matured projects that we could immediately auction. So what do we do about all this? First of all, we're typing out the big plays. Metro 4 line. The largest project to be built in the next few years in our own country, a budget project of 1.8 billion euros is finally falling apart. A project that has been debated over ten years and will change the country's transport map, after almost a decade's old age, a few days ago, it entered the final straight. Thessaloniki Metro. What did you do? You split the city. You've delayed the project. You inaugurated mushrooms and risked their funding. That's the reality. We move on to the only solution that says "yes, to the ancient yes and to the subway". We're going to another multipathic project: the Patras Tower. If you hadn't broken it into eight pieces to favor a specific contractor’s partner, who now dispersed you, the work today would be a reality. You have reached the question of whether or not to do the work. Here, then, we are giving a sustainable solution. We are ensuring its funding for the period 2021-2027. We are in constant contact with the European Commission so that its construction begins in 2021. South of the E65. We are moving on to the completion of the project, since almost 55% of the project has now been implemented. In Crete we have many years of problems with BOAK. We mature the studies and in a few months we will submit to the Ministry of the Environment the application for environmental impact assessment, while unblocking the flagship project in Kastelli. Aktio - Ambrosia. We have also unblocked a project that has been delayed for years. Another partition project in which we finally found a solution. In a few days the contract is signed and the final phase of the project begins. Finally, in infrastructures, I tell you that interoperability in tolls has become a reality and from next week all drivers will be running around the country with a transponder. What in other countries is self-evident in Greece of SYRIZA fantasy. At the same time, we put a number of other projects in order. Expansions of Attica Road, the northern part of the E65, important railway projects that literally laid down the period 2015-2019 as the Flyover of Thessaloniki. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis invests over EUR 1 billion in another series of targeted interventions across the country in critical areas, such as anti-military protection. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a lot more about the infrastructure sector, but I would like to use my time to refer to the transport sector as well. In particular, in urban transport, because I know that this concerns the daily lives of citizens. Because we are giving daily crisis management and surely, do not fool ourselves, we still have a long way to go. These days have heard some terrible things that need to be answered in this Chamber. Mr. Tsipras and colleagues of SYRIZA, really, so many years you've been in the government for how many recruitments have you made in urban transport? I'll answer you. Not one. How many buses did you buy? Let me answer that, too. Not one. What innovative solutions have you implemented? None. Unless you consider yourself a pioneering solution to the republication of the Thessaloniki OSTH which has been a failure. What have you been doing, anyway, for four and a half years? Now you seem to be concerned about urban transport? All you did was increase the cost of the ticket from 1.20 to 1.40 and relax the services provided. Let's see what we did. The action plan has three aspects. Upgrade, reinforcement, renewal. In Athens we received eight hundred fifty buses. Today, there are thousands of them out there. The metro distances have been reduced accordingly. We received thirty two trains. Today there are thirty - eight trains on the subway. Finally, we are implementing the aid phase. We respect the public nature of urban transport, but we co-operate with the private sector. Partnership with the CBS, Lizzing, recruitment. We gradually strengthen five hundred vehicles in Athens by the end of 2021 and a thousand two hundred workers. Day after day, the routes get dense. On the subway, we move on to the three new stations. The first ones we handed over to Piraeus, and the others surrender within the timelines we have set. In the metro we prepare the purchase of seven trains for Lines 2 and 3 and upgrade fifteen trains for Line 1. In Thessaloniki, a city where OSTH was stalled, something unprecedented about European data over the past twenty years, we received two hundred and twelve buses and today we have reached almost four hundred and we arrive shortly by the end of the year in six hundred. The same solutions, fleet lifting, 100 thirty buses with CBEL, 100 eighty leasing. And we join forces with the municipality that brought fifty more buses. These are not words, they are not figures. Indicatively, yesterday the first buses took place in the city centre of Thessaloniki. In Athens and Thessaloniki, then, a step - step by step, we are trying to bring about more human, more reliable urban transport. We can't bring up everything you've broken up in four and a half years in 15 months. We have a plan and the first results are seen. I would like, on this occasion, to thank those who work in urban transport and give the battle of everyday life. Let me make it clear for another time, though. It's not all pomegranate. We are fully aware of the situation in urban transport. We know we still have a way to go. But we will be judged by what we have received and by what we will deliver to the next. But the reality is what I presented to you, with evidence. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as it goes without saying, I am voting against the motion of censure, not only against the Ministry of Finance but against the entire government. As for the bill, it is a bill that provides for debt adjustment and provides a second chance for households. If there were any real issues in need of improvement, a responsible opposition would put forward proposals, it would not make micro-political games. I'm afraid you're unable to process the new reality in SYRIZA. With slogans and behaviors of previous years you do not treat the Mitsotakis Government or contribute to solving problems for the good of the place. Because today our place needs a responsible Opposition and the good of the place must enter above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u287	After Mr. Karamanlis, who is the last of the ministers to speak, with the exception of Mr. Stakoura, who will speak again, is called...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u289	Wait a minute. I didn't finish my speech. Maybe what I'll say will answer you. You cut me between a word, not even between two words. I will now give the floor to Mr Lebanese, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who has fallen short of his six-minute term, which he is entitled to. If you wish, Mr Chakaloto, to raise a question as to whether the debate can be extended, let me tell you this. I have also heard Mr Voutsi, Mr President, and other colleagues who have raised the matter. I want to tell you something. First. The reality is that they cannot speak more Members, not because we do not give a circle, but because those who have spoken have exceeded their time. That is the only reason they don't speak more Members. This, for the reasons, to make self-criticism with me first. Two. As far as time and procedure are concerned, I would like to say that at the beginning of this three-day debate on Friday afternoon, we decided unanimously - on another point Mr Kegeroglu had disagreed on the next day - on this procedure, which he holds, on the basis of the Constitution, for three days. It has indeed been heard that, under Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure, any debate will not end unless not all Members in the House speak unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure. This is where the Constitution stipulates that it lasts three days. If all the Members who were signatory, that is, eighty-three more, we would go to four days, which the Constitution does not define. We'd be done today at 4:00, which would be inhuman, or tomorrow. So everything we do is right. This morning, the President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, I think, reiterated the end of the speeches, the reverse of the Heads of State at 20.00 and the start of the vote and Mr Lambroulis also, today, as the Bureau, ended the same issue for the third time on the incidents raised by Mrs Kasimatis, saying exactly the same things. So every five minutes we cannot raise the same issue and resolute it. This issue is closed. Mr. Lebanese will now speak. As we have said, we observe what we have decided. They have spoken so many Members who do not even speak in a budget. And don't forget the more general conditions under which this debate is being held.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u290	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Chakaloto, do you insist that you want to speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u293	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u294	I don't want to confront this. But I really said, not to the next presidents, which you said, that we don't understand the logic for the 20:00. It seems arbitrary at 20:00. When you said it, you said we'd see how it goes and we'll see if there's anything different. I repeat in a mild way that in 20.00, it seems arbitrary to me. The ban is after 24:00. They could talk. Don't be perfect the enemy of good. You said that not everyone can talk. Good! Not everyone can talk, they can talk a little more. So, to end two hours later - to be compromised - that is, to be the vote at 22.00, I do not think it is too much. 'Cause I can't see where it comes from. 20:00. It doesn't come out of an algorithm, as I do. And I asked the President to hold a conference, as has been said, to tell us whether an extension can be made, but also where it comes from in 20.00.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u295	In 20:00, he comes out of where he was going to go and 21:00. It's just a limit we've set, which we've all accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u297	We all took it on the first day of the day, by the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u298	We said to see how it's going to go...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u299	I meant take it at 9:00, not at 21:00. I think this should once end. Mr. Varoufakis, we won't take his time, but he'd talk now. Mr Lebanese, you have the floor for your last speech today in the light of the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. We also wanted the remaining 50 Members to speak from our parliamentary group. We have the biggest problem. But when something is decided and the rules are followed, I think we all have to comply. Mr. Manolakos has been here since the morning. I see him. He won't have the right to speak. They have spoken forty Members in thirty-three hours, and I think we should follow what was decided unanimously by the Presidents. It is clear to us that the motion of censure was an unfortunate political choice by Mr Tsipras. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group has supported with one voice and will support Christos Stakoura and the government's economic policy, obviously the bill - cut for the second opportunity. However, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, has given you a sound answer, but society, when it tells you to leave populism, get serious, restrain, update, get a programme, and finally propose concrete solutions. Finally, in order to answer Mr Tsakalotos's question, do your important and sacred duty in opposition, because this is what our democracy needs. This is the service which you have been asked to offer today in democracy, and that is what you must do. No aberrations to irresponsible excesses and diversions, especially for our national issues at this critical time in our country. And because today there has been quite a lot of discussion on national issues, I would like to say by closing that Greece defends our national sovereignty and our sovereign rights. Our territorial waters are the hard core of our sovereignty. We are defending by every means and national self-confidence our sovereignty in the sea and air. Every violation is dealt with, as the Minister of National Defence said, by the Armed Forces. We reserve the inalienable right to extend our territorial waters to twelve nautical miles to the Aegean. However, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the red lines should not be conducted on the extensions of the gynaecological zone and, in this way, on the public side, and so on, we are giving our enemies an argument, I mean beyond the Aegean. We must be cool, serious and permanent in this difficult period. Our national front must be contagious and irritable, just as the Greek people are. In this context, with my speech, I will be consensual and will not be placed on any disagreements that have seen the light of publicity, in the hope that Mr. Tsipras, the Chief of Officerial Response, will speak the same union and national in a little while from this one. In three words, we can see in practice what the government's policy has achieved to date for our country. We have succeeded in making the bilateral dispute with Turkey a European-Turkish dispute and now for everyone, in the Western world at least, but also in Southeast Europe, that the Greek border is also a European border. We have created bilateral and multilateral partnerships and agreements that isolate Turkey as a turbulent and Mr Erdogan now aspire to the eyes of all newly-born sultan. We have closed historical loose ends by defining the EEZ with Italy and Egypt, while we are ready, after the agreement to refer to The Hague, to close the issue of EEZ with Albania. In addition to all the diplomatic weapons we have exercised in an excellent way for our national interests, however, we have proved that we are also operationally ready to face any threat to our national sovereignty. With the rapid development of the fleet in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Eastern Aegean, we have sent out an essential message of strong deterrent power. We are guarding and strengthening Evros even further, reducing illegal immigration flows to the very least, always respecting International Law. We monitor our maritime borders and, at the same time, declare in every international forum that we are open to dialogue with neighbour Turkey, but in a dialogue, on a conditional basis, the departure of Horuts Race from the Greek continent and Turkey's abstention from provocative and aggressive actions. So, in practice and successfully this policy which you in the SYRIZA today are evangelizing, which other parties in the National Parliament are proposing to us, and we are moving with national confidence to protect our national laws and our national sovereignty. The Greek people in this effort want us all together and not divided! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u301	Mr Giannis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must have gone to the wrong plenary. If I am not mistaken, we are here because there is a vote today for a vote of censure on Mr Stakoura. And I heard an entire debate on national issues. It's very important. Mr Stavura, you have not been supported by Mr Lebanese. You will end at the discretion of this House, with a vote on distrust on your face, rightfully or unfairly, and here we are talking about Greek-Turkish issues. That's no accident.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u303	You probably didn't hear what's been called in the Chamber all these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u304	Whoever referred to Greek-Turkish, I think it is inappropriate to your colleague, who is facing a vote of censure on his face, to speak of unrelated issues. But it's not random.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u305	I supported him in my speech, Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u306	We, unbelievably, will be talking about bankruptcy law. Because bankruptcy law, ladies and gentlemen, is not another law. It's been important for decades. It is the alpha and the omega of the foundations of a society, especially a capitalist society, in which what ultimately counts as regards the grid, the network of power, is who owes what, to whom. In a country, in fact, which is under generalised four-fold bankruptcy, a bankruptcy that has embraced 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises and puts them before the bankruptcy provided for in the bankruptcy law and six hundred thousand households who have been caught in the moving sand of bankruptcy, in a country that - I know you do not like New Democracy to hear it - you and KINAL and SYRIZA have turned it into four memoranda of debt-government, into an infinite debt prison. In this country that today is sinking even deeper into the same quadruple bankruptcy, which you are always hiding from the Ministry of Finance from your people with your news, I will say, Greek troika statistics - not just grey statistics - there is no more important moment in this Parliament than the vote of the bankruptcy law which was interrupted because of the process that started. Let us not forget that this law determines what it can do to the bankrupt, not only the original creditor, but - and here is the great drama - what a predatory fund that buys 2% -3% of the value of a loan is the original loan. Well, last Thursday when this key bill was being discussed, the Prime Minister was not here. He didn't come while he's come to other minor bills. And Mr. Mitsotakis didn't come because he didn't want to get up. He wanted to hide himself from the coronary and distance himself from his proclamation about the new restrictive measures he brings, just because Mr Mitsotakis knows very well what he is doing, what the crime behind this bankruptcy law is. Thus, your Government has supported your failure to cover the coronary with the announcement on Thursday night of the new restrictive measures - which I do not judge - which at that time was intended to cover up the abortion of the bankruptcy. And you did it. The bankrupt didn't discuss Thursday night. Public opinion didn't even hear what was said in here about him. I'm going to look at the camera, and I'm going to talk to the fellow citizens, the few people who see the Parliament's channel, because they need to know what you're going to vote on tomorrow. I will describe bankruptcy law by giving an example, which shows only a part of this abomination, but even this individual example is enough to understand the few who see the scope of the combination of greed and evil that his authors have committed to this bill. Who are the writers? Troikas, predators of the predatory funds and some of your people who see that one day, in the context of the well-known rotating doors, since the people will have sent you to your home - they will also be - someone who will hire them to one of these funds, perhaps also find a place in Brussels working directly for the troika. May I say, ladies and gentlemen, that tomorrow morning - beating! - He's closing a middle company. Why? It was a bad climate, the coronary came, the company shuts down, so it can't pay off all its creditors. Indebted to the workers, to the tax office, to the insurance funds, to the banks. What does your law provide for? First, the real estate - legal person - will be auctioned. And if this auction is barren after a hundred and twenty days it's been bred. Yes, but not from the municipality, not even from the state. He's going to the state, but what part of the state is he going to go to? He's going to the superstition. In other words, abroad again, this added value. Then any value of that company auctioned and substantially converted into euros from it should first be paid by the already thousands of citizens. The same bank that has taken fifty billion, which you of the New Democracy and PASOK borrowed in 2012, of which you gave forty billion to banks without even getting any shares, which would give the public vote, furthermore after the next SYRIZA recapitalisation, plus the fifty-six billion IOU guaranteed by the Finance Ministers stable since 2008-2009, this grand-dollar bank will be the first to receive from the medium-sized company that will be closed down. If the bank has already sold its loans to a predator fund, then this fund will be the first to rank, only if it is left and no euro will then get something public. If this company, before closing down now, had repaid a tax debt with a real estate with your own law, this title of property leaves the state and returns to the creditor. You have at least one consequence since 2012, first the banker enters, last the public and, last of all, most of all, the worker. And I come to the worker now, who will obviously be last in the ranking of creditors and staffer will not be repaid. As a result of your own law, which will not repay the employee, when the employee cannot repay his housing loan, this same law will bring him to the threshold of his home, his apartment, can also the same bank, another bank, a fund that has purchased the housing loan to go bankrupt and take his home. But what does Mr. Stavros say to us? Don't be afraid, we'll let him stay in this house for up to twelve years with rent. And who's gonna determine the rent? The market? Oh, no. A friend of the banker, the same company, can be a subsidiary of the bank or the fund that has purchased the housing loan, will have another way of getting more. How? Establishing a management company for this sad rental of confiscated houses, which will define the rent. How? Depending on the interest rates, he says. What interest rates, Mr. Stakoura? The Central Bank's negative or the loan-to-courts that banks impose on weaker ones that have no choice? Twelve years, then, will be rented on the basis of the rents that the loan sharks will choose. And then what? Then, he says, they'll let him buy the property. What honor? At the price the managers themselves will choose. But it does not stop, ladies and gentlemen, the combination of maliciousness and greed here. You've reached a predatory point in surrealism. Twelve years of rent. Even so, if a bankrupt householder or householder starts paying this rent so that he doesn't leave the house after three months, four - let's say a little story - dies an aunt in America and inherits a substantial sum and he can pay it back. What does your bill say? No, he says he has to pay all twelve years of rent and then buy the house back. Are you serious? Aren't you getting red on what you're writing in your bill? You are going to vote for a law which gives the strategy of the poorer, namely the bankers and the fewer, the possibility of forcefully entrusting the entire property of those who the same bankers, the fewer aided by you, the legislators of the New Democracy and the PASOK, have brought them into a state of general inability to pay back, to fulfil their credit obligations. You are worthy of the dual irony of history. Ironically, first: The property of small and medium-sized enterprises will not ultimately be confiscated by the communists, as the Right has been warning for decades now, but by New Democracy in the name of liberal reforms. Congratulations! Ironically, second: In the name of patriotism and the development of the country you are launching the generalized looting of foreign funds what remains of the private wealth and the mass export of these values from Greece to the four corners of the earth, where the funds have their seat with what remains of public property or any part of private property is built to take the way through the Supreme Court to the Troika. This mass transfer is coming to rise, to cement more the walls of the debt-government "Greece". I said this on Thursday, and now I repeat, this is the first multiplier of the Fifth Memorandum which inaugurates this violent mass invasion of the oligarchy without frontiers, which sees as a polite prey the little fortune left in the hands of the non-preferentials. This legislative abstention that violates the Constitution, such as our Parliamentary spokesman for seagulls and surgically explained and analysed on Thursday, is your first step, followed by the budget - here we will be - and next year the new austerity you have announced by referring to the bells on one hand the restructuring of the debt by accepting that you will have a primary surplus or that you will not have a primary deficit, and of course, on the other. And when this was said by our Members, what did your representatives answer all this? Did they answer in detail, with legal arguments? "How dare you speak?" Mr. Lebanese said to our Parliamentary Representative "when you participate in the party of those who destroyed Greece in 2015". You reminded me of one of those jokes we talked about Soviet used to be. Do You Remember? American tourist is at Moscow Airport. He's been waiting hours for the plane. The plane's not coming. He goes to the clerk there and starts complaining. And the official, the bureaucrat of 'AEROFLOT', says to him: 'You too are oppressing blacks.' That's how you do it. We tell you the unconstitutionality of the bankrupt and instead of seriously answering legal arguments, you are also flying an nonsense for 2015. This is your difference from the Soviet bureaucrat, Mr Lebanon and Mr Stakoura. He also had a right, no matter what it was, black people were really oppressed and unfortunately still being murdered, like Floyd George recently. On the contrary, you speak of 2015 with the same folly as the relatives of the hanged rope. But before I came to that, and I'm going to come here - a parentheses. Mr. Mitsotakis did not come on Thursday so that the matter would not be raised up and that the bankruptcy could pass in silence. Mr. Tsipras came in, but because he says he wanted to show up the bankruptcy law, he filed a motion of censure against Mr. Stakoura. And so from where Mr. Mitsotakis had managed in his absence to make bankruptcy law sixth theme in the news releases, Mr. Tsipras took it to the tenth and in some bulletins he didn't play at all, because the whole thing suddenly became the suggestion of mistrust to the Minister of Finance and not the bankruptcy law. On the one hand, we have a Prime Minister who was trying to pass the bankruptcy abortion, on the other hand, a Chief of Officerial Response who tried to achieve two birds: and to say that he raises the tons of the bankruptcy law and disorient the debate, create conditions of another cohort, say about the Greek tunics, about the coronary. You said everything. Only for the bankrupt not to talk! Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is a matter of consistency and it is important that you see yourself in the mirror. Who were served in impressive hypocrisy by shedding crocodile tear rivers to protect the first house, while those who launched the sale of red loans to the 'paracists', a sale that is legally incompatible with the protection of the first home? Why buy someone's red loan if he can't sell it? The Tsipra government. Who has built the online auction platform that is being extended today by the bankruptcy of New Democracy and which I see now that you are tabling an amendment to Law 3869 to the committee so that you can divest first houses more quickly in summary procedures? The Tsipra government. Who, by peculiarity, introduced the suppression of protests against auctions? You know, you've been told by others. It's your government. Who ran to court the Panagiotis Lafazanis? He was your partner. You. On what memorials does the fifth Memorandum, starting with this bankruptcy law, build today, the Government of New Democracy? On the third and fourth memorials of the Tsipra government. It is not surprising, then, that the embarrassment of the Officerial Response in front of the bankruptcy officer moving towards the logical conclusion of the government's own work is not surprising. It is not surprising that you interrupted the debate to have another sad controversy about which of you best implements the memorandum. We at Mera25 in our time in this Chamber will neither allow the bankruptcy to be tampered with nor will we be pleased with the government. The proposal to distrust Mr Stakoura is as unacceptable as Mr Stakoura's policy as the Minister of Finance and the Government as a whole. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the responsibility of a government is collective, it is the entire government, as it was in 2015, Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Tsipras, former SYRIZA partners. As it was in 2015, it is collective today. You should have made a motion of censure to the entire government. Ladies and gentlemen, because our respect, respect for the parliamentary procedure of Mera25 is unlimited, although I will remain focused on the bankruptcy law which each of the two gladiators is trying to pass to the duo, I have an obligation to assess the Minister. Mr Stavoura, you will allow me to do so because this is the procedure today, to be assessed in the context of a vote of censure on your face. You will allow me, Mr Stakoura, to tell you, with all due respect, that the indictment against you consists of four points: First, you've been through two terms. In your first term, Mr. Stakoura, you were Deputy Minister of Finance from 2012 to 2014. The country's GDP lost 12.548 billion. Since you've been back to the Treasury as Minister of Finance, reducing, according to ELSTAT's latest data, is exactly 9.22 billion. Even if we take the coronary out of it, in the two quarters of 2019 where you were found at Syntagma Square, we had 0.09% of GDP. You have a tradition, in other words, but at the same time you also have a tradition of an impressive predictive failure. You can't even predict the past, Mr. Stakoura. You tell us that for 2019 there has been no fall in GDP. There has been a clear fall in GDP in the last quarter of 2019, and in the last two quarters of 2019. You talk about 2014 and you really want to convince the Greek people that you were doing well in 2014, and the Greek people were foolish to vote at the time for us who were all together at SYRIZA. Mr Stavoura, 2014, according to ELSTAT data I will present in the Minutes of the House directly, we had a change in GDP, a fall in GDP from 2013 to 2014 of 2 billion. To be accurate, 1,998 billion, -1,11%, that was your performance in 2014. And yet I've heard many of you in this Step from that position say that in 2014 you had growth. The only way to take this number off, to "cook", is to remove negative inflation, but then I'll have to put you another bad grade and another charge on your indictment. You're not entitled to do that. If you did this in front of the people of the International Monetary Fund, you would be fighting, because you cannot count on debt by name and during deflation at constant prices when prices are falling. What are you practically doing? Your double failure is trying to present it as a success. What is the double failure? Firstly, GDP fell, secondly, prices fell. Why do prices fall? Because we have a huge recession. Mr Stavoura, presenting the 2014 collapse - and that is why the Greek people have honoured you - as a success you are actually creating the conditions to fail not only to anticipate the past, but also, of course, the future. Here we were in plenary in March. Do you remember when I told you that at best we would have a 10% recession this year? You said 0% and then you did 2%, then you did 3%, then you try again to remove negative inflation to show that it's not 10%. It's 10%, Mr. Stakoura, it's over 10% already, in euros. No, at constant prices, prices are not constant, prices are pedaling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u307	It's ten dollars.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u308	It is 10.4% lower GDP in the first seven months of 2020 than in 2019. I got the evidence here last night I downloaded it from ELSTAT. You'll see. Third charge. Mr. Stavoura, it is hard to say, but you have participated, without your own fault, in three unwilling acts during 2014-2015. First non-Greek act: smile the unrealized Mr Stournara on December 14, 2014 when in a speech as Governor of the Bank of Greece in the building of the Bank of Greece, in honor - supposedly - of Xenophonta Zolota, the central banker dared as a central banker to predict a lack of liquidity in the market. Tell me which country in the world central bank predicts a lack of liquidity on the market. This is what causes both bank run and market insecurity and you simmered it because you played micro-political games and then watched you lose the elections on January 25, 2015. It's nothing less than an unwilling act. At the same time, you continue to lie about the banks. The other day, on Thursday, you submitted as evidence of the "disaster of Varoufakis 2015" a table with the departure of the deposit, which you started along with Mr Stournara and the other MPs, if I'm not mistaken. Do you remember Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Georgiadis and other colleagues who asked people to make their money from the banks? You did this. But you know what? It doesn't matter. We're economists. We know very well that the bank's funds are not the deposits. A bank goes bankrupt when it has red loans, not when it's gone bankrupt. You with Mr Stournara in 2012 and 2013 borrowed it on behalf of the Greek citizens 41 billion and gave it to the bankers. According to the International Monetary Fund, a report by June 2014, of these 41 billion had already been lost 30, because the banks you gave these 41 billion were like a drill, you put water above it, it leaves from below. What are the holes in the hole? Red loans. You have made the huge mistake - and you have done it many times - by recapitalisation with the Greek citizen's money - loan of course - without shutting down the holes of the red loans. And then you have the nerve to blame in the first half of 2015, saying that leaving the deposits - which is irrelevant to red loans, is it irrelevant to the banks' capital adequacy - was it the reason why the banks closed down? You know very well why the banks are closed. Mr. Draghi has admitted it. Mr Draghi and I are in the European courts right now. He has admitted that in April 2015 with European public money he had paid a private law office in Brussels to advise him if it was lawful what he was going to do, to close the banks. Mr. Draghi doesn't deny that. You're talking about the Barofalis who closed the banks. Third unwilling act. Today you blame SYRIZA - as well as I do - for the 100% tax advance on the cut-off of the ESS. But where were you in the first half of 2015, when I was fighting with Dieselblum, with Tomsen, who wanted a 100% tax advance for the Greek companies, which you're supposed to be cutting for them? You were here in plenary, and you know what you were doing? You all yelled together saying "Sign what they give you". You said 'washer, Gerun'. That's what you were saying. And what did they say about the papers they gave me? The 100% tax advance. Take the hampari, all of you of the Memorandum Arc, New Democracy, formerly PASOK, SYRIZA: In the first half of 2015 was a leading moment for Greece and Europe, which together you joined together, joined to cancel the 6th of July 2015. This is not the time to have this conversation. But because every time you get locked up in a conversation you don't like about bankruptcy law, for any matter, throw the ball in 2015. I'll be clear. I'll start with SYRIZA. While you are caught in the false account of your leadership that the conflict with the troika in the first half of the year was based on illusions, you will be in the cathode of the slipper who turned Andreas Papandreou's party into KINAL. As for you, do you want to talk about 2015? I'm here. Organize, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a prior agenda discussion on 2015 to discuss everything with details. Otherwise stop trying to hide crimes against logic and society, such as bankruptcy law, behind lies for 2015. Either come and talk in detail about 2015 or stop at last. We, at Mera25, don't drink. The hatred of the troika and the oligarchy, which in the first half of 2015 this oligarchy felt the ground trembling under its feet, we want this hatred. We hug that. Their hatred is something that feeds us. It gives us strength. It gives us strength to overcome the difficulties our people have with your own bills, laws such as this evaporation that Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras are trying to overcome, in pursuit of another cohort. Because we of Mera25 are tired of hearing you arguing about who applied the memorials better, to agree that you're both as wonderful? We don't have a problem. Share undividedly the first Memorandum Enforcement Award! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Is the reality now? This also relates to the quality of parliamentary dialogue. The smaller the substantial differences between you, the more you need to interact, to discover differences in order to rally your own courses, despite the fact that every day that passes through this process more and more Greek and Greek women become debtless. Do you remember the question in 1980, when we entered the European Economic Community? In 2000, when we entered the Eurozone? Do you remember the question that had too many people and was reasonable too? "But why do they put us in the EEC? Why are they putting us in the Eurozone? What does Greece produce? What do they want from Greece? What can we offer them?’ Do you know what the answer is? This answer is given or given by bankers from France, from Germany, from Britain and America. The answer was that the Greeks, the Greek people, initially brought two things into the EEC and the Eurozone, two very large assets, assets. Firstly, a low private debt - yes, we had the lowest private debt - and a high percentage of ownership. We were the ideal customers of their banks, especially with the euro, when we started paying the little money that the Greek people received in euro marks, the same thing. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the creditors to settle this private property with New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA's leadership in the role of judiciary officers to fight among you for who will make the dirty job more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 was created, we were founded, because the lasting expansion of the country's four-fold bankruptcy - state banks, businesses, citizens - which began with the first memorandum, which was institutionalised by the second memorandum, which received left legitimisation with the third memorandum and which was permanentised until 2060 with the fourth Memorandum of August 2018, is now going through the phase of the fifth Memorandum with which private property follows the public property on the path of the divestment of foreign predators. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget what Bertolt Brecht is asking about 'Opera of Pentacles'. ‘Why send gangsters when they can send judges?’. Why should the foreign dictator send a ultimatum - since 28 October - when he may have you vote for such a bankruptcy law? Mera25 is here to stand in the way of these judge clerks, whether they're predators or the Memorandum Arc in here. Refusing to become collaborators in the bankruptcy of the bankrupt, through the Operetta of Mr. Tsipras, with which Mr. Mitsotakis will finally pass very silently the bankruptcy, Mera25 leaves the process, denounced the co-operativeness of the Government and the Officerial Response to the implementation of Mr. Tsipras' fourth Memorandum with his extension with the first bill of the Fifth Memorandum, your bankruptcy law, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u309	Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, is now being called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to express my grief for two reasons: the Greek Solution entered the Greek Parliament to offer another proposal through constructive criticism. I consider it incomprehensible that political leaders should not be present when Mr Varoufakis talks. To justify the Prime Minister, he's got a lot of work to do. But the rest of the political leaders should have been here to listen to Mr. Varoufakis, whatever Mr. Varoufakis says. But Mr Varoufakis, too, should be kind enough to stay here and not leave. The world sees them, you know, these, ladies and gentlemen, and is annoyed by a picture of the delusion of the Greek Parliament, where the leaders do not sit and listen to the other leaders, where political leaders deceive the House itself with the conduct of departure, without even hearing either the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsoubas, or Mrs. Gennimata or us and leaving. Look, the seriousness of seriousness is a small step for all of us. Unfortunately, we are the reason why people are not going to vote on elections. It is our fault that we did not convince the Greeks that we must first be serious and then demand that the citizen be serious and politically correct. Wrong. I'm here, not because they're political opponents, but because I want to hear my opponent, his argument, his opinion, my perception. I do not understand the logic of a president speaking and missing the others. I'm alone. Alone like the lemon, they say, but we won't make the ice cream at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u311	They're the MPs here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u312	I mean, presidents, Secretary. I am not referring to Members. Clearly, they're the MPs here. But I want you to understand that this image creates a picture of grief. And I'm saying maybe we can fix the situation. Let's sit down five hours, the Chiefs to listen to each other. It's not bad. It's not a matter of politeness. It's a matter of political certainty. Also, grief causes me what is happening today. We have the Turks in the Aegean Sea, and we are bailing against each other either on arguments, either by shouting or by shouting on a very serious matter that the government has now brought. At a time when we have a national issue and we had to stand by the Prime Minister for what he or she does or does not, in any case, bring in a bankrupt, with which you are giving the opportunity to fight with each other, to fight against each other, while there is a need for national unity. And that's wrong. With regard to the proposal put forward by SYRIZA, we will vote in favour of it. But why? Because whether it is left-wing or right-wing, the proposal, if it is right and sensible, will be voted on. I don't care about the left and the right. It's not even my concern. The right and the right to vote. But if I'm not mistaken, a year has passed and SYRIZA has not made a motion of censure to the government. He turned the motion of censure to the face of the Minister for the Confederation of the New Democracy. Politically unlucky, of course. I won't judge him. Let the others judge him, voters or other colleagues. I mean, if we wanted to make a proposal, we should do it all over the government. Why does anyone imagine that Mr Stagioras is exercising his own policy, or does not the Prime Minister know what Mr Stagioras is doing? Then we have an impudent Prime Minister. I do not believe that any Prime Minister in this House - those who have in any case put it - are awkward. They all have ministers, who are appointed and commanded, whether economic policy, foreign policy or military. I'm telling you why the government has badly brought the bankruptcy now, which is really bankrupt. All Greeks go bankrupt. They're taking the houses away. You could wait a week, ten days, fifteen days. What do you need to be hasty - I don't understand - when 'Oruts Race' walks and we all have to be united? Why fight for the deceased - who really is the bankrupt - now? Tell me why, so I can understand. Why should the Greeks understand the national confession that we now need, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Now we need national self-confession. Now we need a union of forces, of all, of left-wing, right-wing, centers. So we will only show Turkey that there is a hard political front. So we'll convince the citizens of the country that we don't look at our micropolitical survival, but we're looking at the survival of the nation, the Greeks, the homeland. And I say this because you come to stand up and we are forced and we enter into this process, we are also opposed to the economy, but also to other issues, with the government. In fact, SYRIZA has succeeded in the collapsing of the New Democracy. It worked today a hundred and fifty-eight Members to vote for the Banking Officer. The results of the vote will, of course, be seen in the next few months. It won't be pleasant. I inform you, the neo-democrats, the results of this bankruptcy will be unpleasant, they are murderous, you will see it along the way. Mr. Villards analysed them extremely as an economist, a well-known economist. He proved to you that it's a criminal thing you're doing and we'll all find it along the way. Because we have all relatives, all of us have friends who have borrowed, charged, who will take their home in ten years, pay rent to stay at home. The self-evident. You know, I think you're just serving the funds, which of course the gentlemen here, of SYRIZA, have served them. And here I agree with Mr Varoufakis, who said that for the only thing you are fighting for is who is more a memorandum or who is more good with the troika. I am saying this because I sincerely want to give you what I believe you are very much the same, unfortunately. SYRIZA has a left-wing, popular - if you like - behavior, you have a noe-liberal behavior, but your common component is the troika. Insurance, 2016 the law of Katrugalo. In 2020, Brutsi does not abolish him. You didn't remove him, to improve him, you want to. You didn't improve him. He's the same. "LARCO": The New Democracy privatised, SYRIZA sent letters, Mr. President, to find buyers, for investors, sent letters for "LARCO". Reduced VAT on the islands. Extension, not freezing. Mobile telephony tax. SYRIZA did it, the New Democracy continues. And begging New Democracy to reduce costs. The most expensive mobile phone we have in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. Because I have a German cell phone, I pay a third in Germany than in Greece. Am I wrong, Mr. Villardo? These are incredible things you're doing. And Adonis Georgiadis beggs - what the poor man does - makes the companies believable - to reduce the fees, the tax, the charge, which you should normally demand that "COSMOTE" be paid off after what was done by the intercepting of the data of millions of Greeks, who no one spoke in here. Why the "COSMOTE" where it belongs? In Germany. If there was a serious state, Mr President, five million, five million, sms, elements, everything, yours, my cell phone, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Kalafatis. Some people stole them. It's a German company, isn't it? Has the company ever been asked to apologize for what happened? The personal message to your child, Mr. Voutsi, should the German have it? Any message to your relatives or me my company messages get them from me and know what I've done? I say it in simple words. The government did not invite the company, nothing, as if nothing had happened, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has happened. He just stole a few million phones, and sms, and messages, and telephone conversations. Because the hive keeps talks, you know, a lot of speeches. Look a little further at the subject. Our Prime Minister was following the Greek Prime Minister's phone. I mean, they called it a batch. And Mr. Tsipras. The Prime Ministers of the country. So where's the state? There is no state, that is what we are talking about in here! And everyone comes and says theirs here. Mr. Varoufakis said his, he bakes in 2015. Its obsession, 2015, 2015, 2015. We've got 2020, let's go 2021. Mr. Tsipras comes here, disputes with the Prime Minister, plays the channels in the cards, we're fine and we're gone. Mr Koutsoubas comes, of course, Mr Koutsoubas never listens to us, I always listen to him, because I think I should do so. Because that's how the political leaders work. Excise duty on fuel. You didn't reduce it, he remained the same. Enforcement of a residence tax on tourist accommodation. SYRIZA introduced him, the New Democracy did not abolish him, only postponed for "THOMAS COOK". There it was blackmailed - the truth of calling it - that's where the Prime Minister weighed, because he tells you: "I'm not bringing you tourists," but the tourists came, they brought the coroner together. Did you see, then, that some effects and some results are not very easy? Also, imposing an end to the tablets. SYRIZA has introduced, New Democracy has not abolished. Fourteen months of government and we need to evaluate what? The economy. Good, Mr Stavoura, I will assess you, as Mr Varoufakis has done. I'm not an economist, but I'm an entrepreneur, and I think economists are doing damage in theory. Because I am working on the application of the economy in my businesses, not on theory. In theory, anyone can say what they want. I remember that he said it would be a 15% recession, today he told us 10%. The only one who said 10% here was Mr. Villardus and I repeat it, because he told me that we would have a recession of around 10%. Let's actually go. EUROSTAT, May 2020, 37.5% of the unemployment of our young people. Our children at 37.5% are unemployed. That's the problem, Mr. Stakoura. Why is unemployment a problem? Because Brutsis doesn't have contributions. Because it does not move money on the market, it does not take the young man's salary to move the money into the market. It's a process like watermill, Mr. Stacura. When you have water in the water medal, the process moves and the flour becomes. It can't be done here, no water you don't even have the mill coming back. All you do is 17% of the total unemployment rate. IMF: recession of 9.5% in Greece in 2020. Well, I don't trust the IMF, because it's fallen and many times out, you tell me. But what your government has done to create wealth, Mr. Stakoura. I want you to tell me what you really did to create wealth in Greece. And when we say wealth, Greece will produce. A country that does not produce will never go forward. A country that cannot create added value in its primary material has a problem. From the wheat you can make a bunch of products from bars of cereals to mushrooms, guys. And that product is of great value. What did we do as a country? Not you personally. Forty-five years what have we done as a country to create this movement in the machine? When Mr. Skokakis says - he's not here - that what we spend is future taxes, we're done, Mr. Stakoura. That's Mr. Dogsucke's statement. What we spend is future taxes. Do you know what that means? That what we spend today will impose future taxes to get them back. Because we don't produce. I say it with soul pain. A businessman tells you now that we don't produce. We can't export, do we understand that? Mr. Besiropoulos, who is also my accomplice from Imathia: 'Government has been successful because of the country's low-interest lending.' Stop saying it right-handed. We borrow, gentlemen, to survive. Do we understand that? Loan means I pay off, which means that if I don't produce, debts will be redebted again, interest on the country's debt. Don't we understand that? And you welcome and welcome each other, why do we borrow at low interest rates? I understand that Germany is glad, zero and something, that France is happy about it. He'll give us Rafale, my Mr. Stakoura. What are we gonna send them? Peaches, where do we throw them in dumps? What are we going to send them, ladies and gentlemen? They'll send us their Rafales, they'll send us their wells. What are we gonna send abroad for export? Have you ever wondered? Is that reasonable? In other words, we are proud that we are lending low-priced, that is, increasing our debts. We are not proud of why we produce wealth so that we can repay our debts. We are happy to borrow, of course, low-priced, like the other countries all, and much lower, to charge our children more debts. Is it reasonable to be glad your child will have debts? I don't get it. I'm not going to tell you about the real interest rates, I'm leaving them. What have you voted for so far? HERAKLIS bill, you're giving it all to the funds. Immunity bankers, don't forget. So you, Mr Stakoura, are today judging, here's what you're doing. I'll say it, some may be annoyed, but for me it's human to say it. You chose to take the Greeks' homes with the Banking Officer - that, how do you say it - the time you give free homes to illegal immigrants, guys. I don't want to escalate, it's hard times. But it is shameful to give ten thousand homes to illegal immigrants for free and the Greeks to unleash them, to get them out of the house. Tell me what sense is that? What can I say now? I've been struggling for a year and a half to two years to convince the Prime Minister to start making a plan for all parties together, producing wealth for our country, wealth, production. And they never seriously sat to talk. I'm not saying he's holding a meeting of political leaders. Let's send our experts, SYRIZA, the JRC and the others, to create goodwill. I'm telling you that. It's a shame to talk about it alone. So our vote, here as a Greek solution, ladies and gentlemen, requires the national interest. Because for us the economy is a national matter, it is a national issue. Mr. Varoufakis is wrong. The economy is a national issue. You have no defense, you have no security, you have no economy. You are vulgar and diabetic by any enemy. So Staikora's obligation to develop Greece to gain power - not to become intact - is a given one. And for Staruras to be supported, and for each Stakoras to be the Minister of Finance. But when we come here, without suggestions, just to be seen by some voters, friends, well-known and applauded, we make a mistake. You know this applause in Greece is easy to make. And I say it for all of us, even for me. The Greek people want special attention, because they have been disappointed by all of us. Today's behavior is really inconsistent with a political environment that is serious. We now have a matter as a parliament, we really have a matter as a parliament. I will not say that it is a matter of seriousness or inequality but of behaviour. Is this political staff behaviour? The Prime Minister is missing, Mrs Gennimatas is missing, Mr. Tsipras is missing, and Mr. Koutsoubas is here - and we thank him very much - and Varoufakis is gone, I will go and I will go and the rest of us will go. Is that a Parliament? I wanted to say other things, but I'm really sad about that. Outside, what are we going to say? That Mr. Koutsoubas discussed and said his proposals, I said them, said Varoufakis - left, ran away - Mrs. Genumatas is coming for five to ten minutes and talks for Andreas Loverdos - to tell you everything - is here all day, from morning to night and keeps the PASOK one by one, the rest do not know where it is. Listen, we as a Greek Solution vote without ideological claws. The SYRIZA proposal finds us in agreement, but, Mr President, something has disturbed us. We brought unconstitutionalism. Your representative came out here and said it was unconstitutional and he was really using our own arguments, but he said he said it to Mera25. So we can't have a political culture. These behaviours lead to the indifference of the political system. We will agree with what is right whether it comes from Mr Koutsouba, from Mr Tsipras, from Mrs Gennimata, from wherever she comes from, from the Prime Minister, but remember something, because they are difficult times we must all stand by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister must stand by the truth, invite us and speak to us, tell us what the good news is going on in the Aegean! - to stand next to him. I was the first to call on us, but with a commitment, ladies and gentlemen, when we get out of talking, only to the Prime Minister, to put our disagreements on paper and no leaks, because I am a journalist, but I am not hanging out with journalists and I do not give any leaks, we have to be serious at some point. I don't want to talk about fake clashes. I will only tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, and listen to me. The bankrupt you brought here is better than South Korea. The Treasury Minister with the law he brought lost his house. You know that? Because of his own law! In Greece, how many of your shipowners, who made 90% haircuts, lost their home? Nobody! I will not say names today, there is no point in escalating, I leave it here, but think a little bit about you, the parliamentarians in the province above all. The Athenians appreciate them as natural persons, but the complex here is intense, there is the Athenian central state, there is the involvement of the oligarchs here in Athens. I am also a provincial, and I say that I can tolerate the shipowner Mylonakis to give him out of 100 million, and the Greek of 100,000 euros, not even give him 1 euro? How can I agree with that thing you brought here? You tell me! And when the IMF and the European Central Bank come out - Mr Stakoura, disprove me! - 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'ECONOMIST' and they tell you about five specific axes, why do you follow the opposite ones? Why does the Government follow the opposing parties? What are they saying? ‘French in privatisation. Enhance with credit public investment, protect with financial simple citizens." They say they and they are liberal, they are not communists, to say that the communists want public investment or state investment. People are not communists, they are liberal, and they say 'you are punishing privatisation'. How do you continue this escalating attack on public property with fake privatizations? I'll tell you something very simple. Remember, all of you, and you, Mr. Stakoura, when we used to have had a fight with the contractors. What did we do? We had a plot, we said, "Take up the plot, build a building, give me 30% -40% of apartments". Isn't that what we were talking about? That's what all the Greeks used to say, and that's how they all became with a house, a plot, a match. You went and gave all the Attica Street and contributory you never got and let's pay them, and now because they don't have cigars. You sell the airport and we don't have a match. You give the 'FRAPORT' what you give and we pay compensation. Isn't the counter-compensation right here? You give them something. What will Greece get? Tell me what we got from Attica Street? I'll tell you what. Now that he's in debt, they're asking for money. Nice investors! These are more communists than you are. These investors you're putting in Greece are communists, they're not investors. The investor has a mess. He's sure whatever happens they'll win. I say this to understand that you are making the wrong economic policy, which is why I insist on seriousness. Publication of the newspaper “KATHMERINI”, colleagues: “Second quarter of 2020. The income of households was reduced by 3.9 billion.' I ask you: When all the Greeks' incomes fall 3.9 billion, how do you put the bankruptcy? How will that man pay? Mr. Stavura, it's not work. Where will that man have revenue from? If the state doesn't give him a job required under the Constitution, where will he pay from? Tell me a way. Is there going to be money on top of it? Money trees have been abolished. The only thing left for hope is you and the Prime Minister. Captain, give solutions! [[The President of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, enters the Chamber.]] Our respects, Prime Minister! That is, to give solutions rather than simple management of the troika's orders. It's wrong to just manage the orders. Exercise economic policy seriously. Let's go to the rest. Let's go to the six hundred thousand Greeks who are your relatives, colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA and ours. They left home to find jobs elsewhere. I have a nephew - thank God, he's lucky! - in Germany, one of the companies I work with and work there, but it's six hundred thousand Greeks, the flower of Greek society. The Prime Minister has ever gathered us all the parties' leaders and said "children, these six hundred thousand Greeks what can we do to bring them back?" I'm not saying we're going to make a global government - far from me! - but counselling is not just about criticising and fighting with the Prime Minister and not about getting the Prime Minister up and answering Mr. Tsipras, me or Mr. Koutsuba. It is to give him proposals and implement them. This is how the political system has to work, otherwise we will be in the 1970s and 1980s. If we want a new political orthos, we leaders must set an example that we are different. IOBE, Mr. Stakoura, lands you roughly. Mr. Stakuras left, but it's okay, the Prime Minister is here. The recession will be up to 4% in 2021. All the numbers are disgusting and I can't understand why they're disgusting you. You're still smiling many of you. All numbers, even IOBE. Now we're going to the mistakes you made, Prime Minister, you and your government, because I want to be clear with you. You made mistakes and made a lot of mistakes as a New Democracy. Yes, Mr. Levane, you made mistakes. I'll list them one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u313	I'm laughing because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u314	I heard you and I came right over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u315	One to one of your mistakes, my dear, my chosen friend! I'm glad, Mr. Mitsotakis! I always listen carefully to you. Firstly, Mr Petsa's announcement - which I do not know if he is here - that you are not going to church. The government spokesman cannot say that the entire government will not go to the churches. Let's go one, each one of you separately. Approximately 28 October. Why? One can't go? It's institutionally uncompromising, it's wrong, and I'm starting from soft because we're going back to the rest. Second, SYRIZA committed a crime and I'll say it so some people can understand it. He removed the country from the Russian factor. Greece must have a multipolar relationship with all countries. I'm glad the government has succeeded in calling Mr. Lavrov here. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Kalafati, don't rush, I'm saying I'm glad about that. It is time for the New Democracy to prove, because the mistakes made by SYRIZA were painful, and perhaps it is time to show the Americans and the Germans that we can get out of their axes too, if necessary, for national good. There's China. Let's take a look at this, don't go monopolies. The great mistake of all governments - and of the New Democracy - is that we did not make an EEZ with Cyprus. If we did an EEZ with Cyprus - I'm not saying delimitation anymore, because the proclamation is a unilateral right - today we would not fight the fugitives under Rhodes and Kastelorizo. This is due to the PASOK of “GAP”, Georgios Andreas Papandreou, at the time, SYRIZA followed and you came. We abandoned Cyprus alone. Do we realize that from 1974 until today is the first time that our Cyprus has been abandoned? She fights alone, and we all had to be next to her. It is not by chance that Ercin Tartar's proposal for Cyprus, a two-state solution, is not one. We are basically going to two states and the political system is unable to monitor developments. Chrysochoid Declaration. Stop it, Mr. Gerapetti! Prime Minister, please don't let your ministers speak. Mr. Chrysochoid, there's no need to talk about the miles. There's no reason to contradict and give the Turks footprints and say that the Minister said that. There's no need. Talk less, it's important. You're doing well at your ministry, but it's not your six miles, it's the Prime Minister's decision - and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decides. Don't do it! Each minister comes out and says his own. Why? What does that mean, if you wish, is the contradiction between the statements? We make arguments to Turkey to say that 'here we do what we want, everyone says what they want'. I say it kindly. It is a difficult time for everyone to escalate and play tiny politics on these issues, but since the official government position is twelve miles, tomorrow morning we will be calling them. That's it, twelve miles. It's not a potential right, it's a mistake to New Democracy. Some Members and Ministers say that it is a potential right. Twelve are not potential, twelve is an international right. It's not possible. You're doing it, as the Prime Minister started in Ionian. So let's do the twelve in the Aegean, so that the story can end, so that the Turks know what the red line is, don't play with our nerves. Well, one of your mistakes, and that's important. Our country's not reacting. We are urging Turkey to take a pity attitude that is seen as horrific. This is a constant historical mistaken attitude of all governments, that we do not react. And as the excellent internationalist says, Mr. Drivvas, when you insist that you do not react to the shelf breach, not only do you accept, but you become a partner in the violation and I want you to understand that. When we accept these violations, we become accomplices and accomplices too. And let me tell you differently. Suddenly SYRIZA remembered 12 miles. All of a sudden, guys. I will not tell the jokes that there is no border on the Aegean. That's funny. We don't even have to talk. They took a word failure of the former Prime Minister and made it a tire to play with words and muffle SYRIZA. Yes, but SYRIZA ruled. Let's do the twelve miles. Let's at least do it. If they didn't, let them do it. Somebody do it. And we have reached the point, Prime Minister, that Bulgaria should react to Macedonia. For the name "Macedonia", not for Skopje, Mr Kalafatis. Don't take the video and some people play it. For the name ‘Macedonia’ Bulgaria vetos the European Union. These are the mistakes that we will find in front of us. We also did not veto Albania, an Albania, which, as the Minister replied, and I thank him for that, did not answer how Katsifas was murdered. There's still no public prosecutor's investigation. Rama drug dealer. Does this Land drag us to The Hague for us? What's the point? Let the Foreign Minister tell us what our disagreements with Albania are. He didn't tell us. Mr. Mylonakis, did Mr. Dendias tell you anything? In other words, let's know, Mr. Voutsi, what are Albania's disagreements and we're going to The Hague. Because there is a promise, an oral one, but see what our differences are and how we agree on our differences to go to The Hague, to know what we can give, what we can lose. Because no one has the right to negotiate in the absence of Parliament, even a government. The crime done by SYRIZA, who signed the Prespecies Agreement, the betrayal, cannot make it by another government for the Aegean or for the Ionian. It's wrong. I will also not say about the Prime Minister's meeting - your right to meet - with the Chiefs of the Army and in the absence of the Minister. It's the Prime Minister's right. ‘Administrator’ means the Prime Minister. Because I heard that in here, too. You are asking, Prime Minister, an arms embargo very well on the part of Mr Tyres from Germany. But in order to convince the Greek Government, Prime Minister, this must first begin. You cannot be convincing to the German who wins either the Dutch or the Italian or the Spanish who wins the arms trade. You are absolutely right in reclaiming, so did we. But we have to start first. So, Saudi Arabia boycotting Turkish products is a sucker? He can boycott them properly. I don't say the government. But there are NGOs, organisations, etc., consumers to start a propaganda. The channels that are uncontrollable to start something. And the Turks went crazy. And what are the Turks doing today? Because he said psychiatrist McCron and Macron pulled his ambassador, they are now banning the Turks in French products. And we're still buying Turkish buses from the Turks. I say, at some point, we need to get serious. Prime Minister, I've told you before. The date for the designation of fishing zones shall be March 2021. The Turks now that we're talking are illegally fishing again. Their fisheries are all over the Aegean Sea. Fishing zones, until March 2021, we have a right. I'm telling you your mistakes. Here, here in the House. Is Mr. Tasoulus here? It buys anti-drones, if I'm not mistaken, by posters, when, Mr. Tsouula, there is "TELEMACHOS". It is our anti-drone, Greek construction of EAB. Why didn't we look for "TELEMACH"? It is not personal reproach, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u316	Don't rush, the House won't buy a drone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u317	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u318	The House doesn't buy drone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u319	You made an anti-drones system say. You don't buy drones, Mr. Tasouula, I know. Anti-drones I said. Other drones, other anti-drones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u320	He doesn't buy an anti-drones either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u321	Why didn't you deny it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u322	I just did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u323	I didn't know, Mr. Tasoula. By the time I came here, you had a chance. In any case, we have the 'TELEMACH' in EAW. Let's start the country's production, us, and export it. Everyone needs that. Production. It's ready. S.H.I.E.E.L.D. did it. You're stalling. The Chief of HNDGS is complaining, Prime Minister. What did the Minister say today? That the equipment will be launched. Hurry up, Prime Minister, hurry up with the armaments, make it as fast as possible. Of course, Prime Minister, a favor. When you buy a gun from a country, do what Israel has done today with Americans about weapons systems. Do not sell any more to Saudi Arabia similar to Israel. These are serious countries, such as Israel. We got our submarines. We paid for it. Excellent submarines. A little more was the price, a million more. I don't know where they went. In the fates, it was a mess and a party used to be. But Germany has not made a commitment on the Greek side that it will not sell to Turkey. And he sells six to Turkey. And the transmigrants come out and say theirs, the invisible radars, the invisible submarines. Yes, next year there will be six submarines, Prime Minister. So what you get with a non-sales clause in a hostile country, as all serious countries do. Prime Minister, we have succeeded with Azerbaijan not to pass the ratification recently. You postponed Qatar. I hear you're bringing it back on Tuesday. Please don't bring the Qatar contract to the House. Don't bring her. Qatar is a pro-Turkish country. We don't want friends with pro-Turkish countries. Erdogan's got a base in Qatar, a brigade. And you've been bringing me to ratify an agreement with Qatar since week again in the House? Retire her. It's wrong. Also, to close slowly, I'd say something simple. Prime Minister, it would be nice to tell us why we were cool with France. Did something happen with the fresh ones? Because we were talking to McCron, freshmen. Let us know what happened. Did Germany play a role? Because that's what the press says. Did something happen to the fresh ones? France is closing down now talking Islamic centres, deporting Islamic people. We do the opposite. It's the mistakes you make. I'm telling you right away. I don't want to escalate. Of course, Erdogan called McCron a psychopath. It shows the situation, Prime Minister, which country can be friendly with us, the country that has an opposition to Turkey. So we need to see no monopolies. Oh, no. Multipolar foreign policy. This is the view of the Greek Solution. We might be wrong, and you're right. Looks like who's right and who's wrong. In conclusion, I should like to say something that bothered me from the media. We're talking about bankruptcy law. You guys, no channels, but no channels to deal with this? Come on, "Oruts Race" fifth news is on it. All the channels, boy. Honestly it is worth wondering how the information in Greece works, I wonder. I will open up this morning 'SKAI'. I'm looking for someone from SYRIZA. It's like the carnetta. It's been all day, New Democracy. I'm looking to find someone in the JRC. Well, the JRC is kind of extinct. There's no channel. Mera, they're gone. There are no other parties. Why would this thing happen? You tell me. Shouldn't we have a barrier to this story? Acquisitioner, and he wouldn't say anything about it? Why? I wonder. Is Mr. Tsipras' proposal only important? But why did Mr. Tsipras propose distrust? They don't say it. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council They do not say the reason why the proposal has been made, but: bankruptcy. They're not saying that, they're hiding that. The important thing is the bankrupt. But all the channels, unfortunately, are playing - I will tell you - New Democracy, they are playing power. I say that and I want the Prime Minister himself to take the initiative to have pluralism. The PSE really does not respect pluralism in the media. Let me give an example, ladies and gentlemen. We have an ER. SYRIZA did it to me. Inside the PSE there are a telecritic, an intellectual - members of the PSE - two journalists, one legal and one economist. Nobody knows about TV. They're the ones who control the TVs. I'm reading to you, Lord Burns President-in-Office of the Council. Melanie Dows, Director General. All doctors, postgraduate on TV. Kevin Buckharst executive member, BBC Managing Director formerly. I'm telling you names. BBC NEWSROOM: Deputy Chief Maggie Kirver. Names obscure people who know about television. You went and put an intellectual in the ER. What can the intellectual do to you? An intellectual! The other telecritic, who judged each other’s clothes and pants. I'm saying that to understand that the PSE is not working. I've said it since August 19, Prime Minister. In January, Prime Minister, I personally sent the PSE as a Greek solution to pluralism. SYRIZA didn't support us then. Since March weirdly, the ERR has been hunting with fines to shut down all my broadcasts. I send out-of-courts and March is really chasing me a terrible way to close my show. I will tell them this: I respect Greek justice. There's also in S.T.E. For me this PSE must be avoided and closed, new people put in, young people who know about television, Prime Minister. It's their vengeance, they're vengeance. Here I shall submit to the Minutes, Prime Minister, all the extrajudicials I have sent to the PSE, so that I can finally be informed why the other parties do not call. You know, here at the out-of-courts, I didn't just put us in, but I put on you guys, that they don't call the other parties. I'm trying to be as objective as I can be as fair as I can to all parties. Of course, I would like to say this before I close, Mr President, and I apologise for the tension. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, and I sincerely ask all of you to tell me if you see this right. I have the e-mail of a member of the ERR, the legal adviser, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Reader. I don't know the man where he is. It sends an e-mail to Rhodes: "If you believe we have been escaped by someone...", I have it here and I will submit it in the Minutes, it is looking for me, "...which systematically also carries out an illegal retransmission of a scheduled other station, you can ask for the extension of our control you and that will make us respond instantly." Refuse, denounce - in a channel - Velopoulos so that I can move directly against him. Here, I got the e-mail. The reader sent it to a channel. I mean, it's incredible what's going on. When I saw it with my eyes, I was in shock. He's the one who disguises himself in his papers, he puts other dates, but he says, but he does, and soon I'll tell you something better. I have it here, Prime Minister. Here's what the PSE says, ladies and gentlemen. That it can't be broadcast via "WeTransfer" at the time that we want to do 5G the New Democracy or even 4G, and broadcast ten hours later. Do you hear that, Mr. Roussepoulou? You did TV. That's what the PSE says, and it imposes a $30,000 fine on the channel, on ten channels of 30 000, that you can't send it says an e-mail today, that is now, ten hours later, to play the show. That's the PSE. I'll testify everything in the Minutes today to understand what crimes are going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, what time do you expect?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u325	Another five minutes, Mr. President. It's a lot of papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u326	So let's go in three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u327	I'm sorry, Mr. President. It says, therefore, the member of the PSE Board of Directors, Mr Russoulou: “I have been aware of the reasoning of the decision. On the basis of questions which raise this point, I propose that the matter be reintroduced.' Now listen. They voted unanimously. This gentleman is a member of the PSE. He took note later, I have his manuscript, it's manuscript and the protocol, because it wasn't updated - but he voted - he wants the case to be reintroduced. Have you ever seen these things happen? He voted, but he didn't know what he voted for. The decision is unanimous. And because he understood his mistake, he says reintroduce the case. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. To understand what ERR we're talking about. Channel which broadcasts me, Prime Minister, because it did not put a logo on the left, pays a fine of EUR 15 000. Because he doesn't have the logo. The channel, the time of my show, 150,000 fine. It's all packed up, it's about a million euros for the same thing in fifteen, twenty stations. You're from the periphery, most of you. Listen to it. 'TV Fhotidis', EUR 89,000 balance sheet. "Thracian TV" +418. "TV Rodopi" - 35,000. Their balance sheets are negative and make them a fine of EUR 30,000 when on the pan-Hellenic channels they once again put EUR 30,000. How will regionals survive? At "Castoria", on your channel, Mr. Colleague, EUR 30,000 a fine for man, with EUR 25,000 less revenue. In other words, they are called "or close Velopoulos or close you." But I'll tell them this: I have the money to pay and I'll pay for it, because it's my fault, and here's the mistake of the law. If it really is Velopoulos' fault when he goes to "NT-1" and says it's stupid, that "NT-1" does not pay it, that Velopoulos pays it. But what does the PSE do? It shall impose a fine on the ‘NND -1’. Why? To be afraid to talk? Is that what we want? What about the worst of all? Before the PSE's decision comes up, it's a post, Prime Minister on a site and a newspaper. All fines written. Fifteen days before the ERC deleted its decision. Now tell me how you'll deal with the situation. You tell me. We all have to get rid of them. When I say everyone, everyone. In conclusion, I will not say the terms of the PSE, but I will say this, Prime Minister: I am learning and wishing to be wrong, that the President of the PSE said this in this House that he does not have the opportunity to work, that he cannot work, that he does not have the necessary tools to work. When you don't work in a business, don't you quit? Why are you being paid? Why did the President and the PSE members never resign? Why were there in the chairs, appointed unrelated people to the object and unable to do their job and dangerous to pluralism? Why? However, since I will not apply for treatment, I will tell them this: they are two thousand workers. Mr. Russopoulos asked me. No, I'm going to S.T. And that's what I'm gonna pay for. Forty million cigarettes of a company that's been in the last few years. Forty million ticks, 8 million VAT paid by Velopoulos, 1,300,000 euros contributions, two thousand employees and want to shut me down and stay two thousand families on the road. The gentlemen, the well-deserved civil servants of the PSE must be ashamed. Two thousand families. And I will tell you the worst of all, and I will close with that, Mr President. Do you know how much this complaint costs? With an anonymous complaint, Prime Minister, with an e-mail, sent from somewhere against me, all this persecution began. With an e-mail. Send an e-mail tomorrow morning for a show. For one year they have done nothing, for two months they have made decisions for 1 million euros. Within two months. That's never happened before. I honestly say that, never and nowhere. I'll tell them something. God doesn't want it wrong. Two thousand families stay on the street, because Mr. Koutromanos, Mr. Diagnostaras and the rest of the PSE do not understand what unemployment means. They're criminalizing society. These are the mistakes and we must all be careful. I apologize for getting tired of you, but I really know every month that I don't owe any of my employees, I pay my contributions, I pay my tax. And I said to Mr Stakoura: stop every week with the tax on my companies. They came again yesterday, I told you. Every week there it is. It's not bad, they're checking on me, everything. But they also damage me. One day the company doesn't work, I told you. When the tax comes in, we stop everything, the employees come out, twenty, thirty, fifty, a hundred people, and the tax controls. Let's do it once, let's say Saturday or Sunday. They come to me every day when the kids work. It is not your fault, in any case, I say so. I mean, until the Coutroman leaves, I'm going to go after him and sue him. I have already sued him and all the members of the board for one single reason: incompetent, unreliable and unrelated avengers have no place in independent authorities, not in institutions, nor in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u328	Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, is next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u329	You are deeply laughed and you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, if you think that with a convenient confrontation between you in here, you will manage to blur the waters and cover your basic strategic partnership, which is also confirmed through your differences in individual issues. You are deeply mistaken if you think you will cover up your responsibilities for the crime against the people's homes and property that one, SYRIZA, has drawn up and the other, New Democracy, is completing with the new Banking Code. I do not, of course, want to blame PASOK - KINAL, for having put his hand on it at least a few times too. The reproach on all of you is given for the pluralism of the debts you have put in bankruptcy to the people's households, micro-enterprises who are self-employed in your policy. In fact, you, the government, have the courage to present this disgrace to the New Banking Code as a second chance for the highly indebted households. A little more and you will ask to set you up and a statue for this supposedly beneficial work of yours. It is such your benefit that for the first time you are establishing the bankruptcy of a natural person, i.e. equalising the employees, the retired, the unemployed and the big business people. For the first time in time, the employee, the free worker, loses the right to manage his income even the means he uses for his work. Truly, crime is over. The bankruptcy, of course, arises when the overpaid fails to pay 40% of the outstanding debts for six months and its total debt exceeds 30,000 euros. Then all of his property, i.e. his life's labors, the first residence, the house that houses his family, his children, but also any income he has after the bankruptcy, that is, his salary and pensioning, for three years will pass into the hands of the so-called creditors, the banks, the predators fund, the tax-paying mechanism for the repayment of his debts. He and his family will live with so-called reasonable living costs, as you say. That is, they will live up to a maximum of 570 to 600 euros. That is where you have set the limit of survival, namely impoverishment. In practice, this means that someone for three years will work for the bank by keeping for themselves only a small amount of living and the bank will automatically collect all the rest of the wages. In fact, the bankrupt is even threatened by imprisonment when he is engaged in risky behaviors, as your banking and state will, of course. Do you really baptize this disgrace, gentlemen of the New Democracy, as a second chance? For all we see is the second chance that you give the banks and the state to rob employees, the small professionals and farmers again, after they have been beaten to the tax-paid interest rate, with the florists. And, of course, your predictions do not leave the unavoidable first residence, which is also sold to fuel the banks' profits and their investments. In other words, not everyone for twelve years in their homes as tenants is also provocative and unacceptable. Make workers tens of thousands of euros in their homes, homes for houses for which they have already paid tens of thousands of euros over the past decades. We have told you this and we will repeat it that crime against highly indebted households, small professionals and farmers has been evolving for a decade by the governments of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which have taken a step further and more reactionary action to put the crisis on the backs of the people. We have to say, firstly, that, for example, in the so-called culture of payments, that is to say, the obligation for the people to pay as much as possible, even from what you, Mr SYRIZA, do not have. Is it necessary to remind you that even in your first governmental steps you said it was a patriotic duty to pay taxes, HISPIA, that is, this unfair tax even when it does not? But you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the other hand, are now taking this further. You are also setting up the three-year work in favour of the bank. We told you the other day. In practice, you turn the employee into a bank servant. Secondly, have you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, forgotten about the electronic auctions? It was your initiative and, indeed, in your years, thousands of them became. Did you forget the MATs against protesters? Have you forgotten that you first introduced as a proprietary offence mobilisation against auctions? And, today, of course, the New Democracy Government has been ending it for some time. It brings the electronic calculation of the assets to speed up the procedures. He's bringing the electronic mocker who's going to examine everyone's solvency so he can unpack and know the bank he'll give from where to get. Thirdly, the abolition of the protection of first residence has your signature, gentlemen of SYRIZA. The New Democracy can, of course, grasp that it gave her the charismatic shot. In fact, the Katseli Act provided for the calculation of the total property and its disposal. The New Democracy is now simply systeming this process. You have first dismantled the protection framework for debts to the State - a hand with the previous SYRIZA Government, and now you are moving on to the other private debts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course impressive that the whole debate with responsibility for the government, but also for SYRIZA, spins not randomly around the red loans to the banks, and in reality the draft law on the new Banking Code concerns the entire private debt of the people's units, both to the banks and to the tax and to the insurance funds. And it is true that for all these cases it will be possible to declare bankruptcy of a person. Why do you really not highlight this side to the extent that it should be? Because it very simply reveals the responsibilities you and you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have for overtaxing and overtaxing the wage earners of the people. That is the real reason why people's families are unable to pay and will continue to be weaker now because of the pandemic. And how can debts be paid? Six out of ten tax declarations, that is, 58.9% of those submitted, incorporate incomes less than EUR 10,000. The debt arrangements that you have all made in previous years have not been able to solve this problem. However, overtaxation lasts well. The employees, the people, continue to pay 95% of the annual tax revenue and only 5% are paid by the large capital tax, which you have all reduced from above. As in many other areas, all of you step by step, when you sat in the chair of the government, plunged down what was left over from working people's rights, you put hands on popular property. Here, of course, we are talking about a strategic legislative choice aimed at bringing wealth to even less hands to move forward and the wonderful investment projects of a few sharks. Therefore, this is not a second opportunity, but the great opportunity for banking, which is armed with the new Banking Code, will bring to the hammer all the worthwhile properties of popular people, will gather them to speed up investments in this area. A real breath of overcompensated households can only give the proposal for a law which the Group of the European People's Party has repeatedly tabled and you all reject it, because other interests you are serving. You do not serve the interests of the highly indebted households with the neck loop. Today, a real breath can give the direct debt haircut for banks and debts in the state, and instead of giving this breath to the people's households you are giving the banks the entire oxygen bottles, and even the recapitalisations paid by the workers, the Greek people themselves. You also grant huge oxygen bottles to large businessmen, whom you have increasingly reduced taxation, apart from tax exemptions, subsidies, the various other privileges. But when you are going to stimulate the profitability and competitiveness of business capitalist groups, then you forget about the resilience of the economy. The very amnesia is getting you the same when it comes to the dangerous designs of your Euro-Atlantic allies. You give 4.3 billion for NATO needs every year. For the sixth consecutive year Greece is in second place, immediately after the United States of America, to the military expenditure that serves their dangerous plans and does not, of course, serve the real defence needs of the country. Your memory comes back, to remember the resilience of the economy, only when we tell you that they need recruitment in hospitals, in schools, in the means of transport, when it is to take measures for the health of the people, in the workplace, everywhere. You are not spared the true reproach from the workers, from the people or from the management of the pandemic. Already the first reproach you have received from the students, who, through their mobilizations, asked for their health and education. That's why they were on their side and their parents and teachers were on their side. And on the occasion, Prime Minister, the genuine progress and the true radicalism you have invoked to move the finger on youth once again expresses itself precisely in the struggle of the students, which your government has slandered and fought in every way. However, you have not succeeded once again, as have other governments in the past. No matter what kind of parrots you've been recruited, no matter how many arrests of fourteen years, the law of the schoolchildren's race finally won. Your state, you see, as a genuine representative of the dictatorship of monopolies is effective only for suppressing the working people's youth mobilisations. When this same state cannot, of course, or cannot manage to arrest or prevent a Golden Evil from hiding convicted, it appears incompetent and incompetent. And in all of this, of course, we would also tell SYRIZA not to scratch in the gypsy of tsapani because in that state he ruled, in this state the Ministers of Education and the Prime Minister used suppression and violence again. And here is not the preference for the light version you adopt, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. It is not a diet recipe to be light one or more heavy to exercise a political violence against students and students in our country's youth. And you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, instead of taking the necessary measures to protect the health of the people, continue your hawaii. You are throwing the blame above you by targeting the people and the youth. You do not understand that large workplaces throughout Greece have evolved into large transmissions. Look at one of the laws from which the pandemic begins and how the pandemic develops. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the criticism you're making to the Government of New Democracy is convenient for both of you. It leaves the policy of degradation, the commercialisation of the public health system, in which you have also been discerned. One of them closed public hospitals and the other one kept them closed. None of you made the necessary recruitments of medical, healthcare personnel. Also, your criticism leaves to the unavoidable great employer the lack of measures in the workplace. For years now you have been telling us that the private business sector can help upgrade the public health system. For all of you, pandemic is the great opportunity to load the burdens of the new economic crisis on the people, to level what is left of people's rights, to implement anti-corruption measures that remain in your own drawers or to find them ready in the drawers of the previous governments. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, within a few months you have spent so many anti-corruption measures that did not pass previous governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA with three memoranda. What should we talk about first? To generalize flexibility in unloading with redundancies from labour force businesses? For teleworking? Years of pursuit of large businesses by the isolation of workers, intensification, unpaid overtime. For the lousy half 200 euros you dared to legislate? All of this is, of course, accompanied as always by authoritarianism and repression. You took it by limiting the protests and you will continue with a new trade union law, as far as we hear. No more catapult. Of course, you have no complaint, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Half of this job has been done by SYRIZA, with the strikeable law of the then Minister of SYRIZA, who has now come out on the tiles, probably because next to her name has also been added to the Minister of New Democracy, Mr. Brutsi. He's gone, you see he's got the exclusive. And the worst part is that she couldn't throw ashes in our eyes when she was supposed to suffer for our own good. Now at the same time, with the same laws as the right-wing bogeyman, how can he prove it and believe it in a progressive, democratic world? However, ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that the reproach of the workers who have been unemployed, who have been unincome for months, who have been unpaid, who work in unacceptable conditions is also for the New Democracy Government which shields the anti-American structure and for the SYRIZA who inherited it. It is for all those who have sent and sent the Crisis account to the permanent recipient, the working class, the people, to clean up the capital and its bloody profits. From wherever you catch it, from the management of the Koronioi pandemic - which I was just saying now -, from the economic crisis affecting Greece and Europe to the exacerbation of competition in the Aegean Sea in the Eastern Mediterranean, where within them the aggression of the Turkish bourgeoisie into its deadly competition and with the Greek bourgeoisie and with other governments in the region and with the umbrella of your own Europeans and male allies, therefore, your strategic partnership, the armoring of the capitalist road you have chosen and of course immortalists of which you are, in order to serve better the overall upgrading of the interests of capital, those that are, in the end, actually, in this place, sacrificing the needs of the peoples, of the workers. And leave what you know, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the New Democracy has no strategy against Turkish provocation. He's been watching and moving in the same way as yours. The New Democracy is strategically engaging with you in the imperialist alliances of NATO, the United States of America and the European Union, where for years you have been trying to convince about the fairy tale, that it is all supposedly a shield of protection for our country's sovereign rights, at the same time that everyone understands that they are precisely and increasingly involved in competition by raising the risks to our people, to all the peoples in the region. The New Democracy simply ratified the dangerous agreement you prepared with the Americans, where from Alexandroupolis to Crete the country has filled military bases, where ports, airports, infrastructures were granted for their war plans, turning the country into a hostage of the USA and NATO. Of course, we understand that it is a little unfair for you, Mr Tsipras - who so far has not been in this Chamber - to have done so much work for this agreement and finally to have the Government of Mr Mitsotakis Mitterrand in Greece, who inspected Thessaloniki, the US base of Souda, but also took control by Trump and the military industrialist, of course, of how the US and NATO interests are promoted in our region. The same applies to the inspection, of course, of NATO Secretary-General, NATO, which is the murderous hand, and our people pay it every year over EUR 4 billion with all governments. SYRIZA may renounce the New Democracy Government because it has failed to impose sanctions on Turkey by the European Union, but we do not think it ignores the economic and military interests of Member States of the European Union with Turkey. And you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, are serving group interests, which, for their own reasons, have chosen, for their own exclusive interests, as allies, the United States of America, NATO, Germany, France, the European Union. However, they all promote their own dangerous designs in the region in competition with Russia and China for energy sources and pipelines. That is why they are posing or encouraging Turkey's aggression, which is why they are setting the table for a dialogue, which has the main issue of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean to the detriment of our sovereign rights. But not only are you talking about it, but you are also preparing the ground for this painful compromise. Of course, since neither of you have questioned the prospect of such a dangerous compromise, it is hypocritical that your confrontation with the extension of the twelve nautical miles is also hypocritical. One through the Minister of Civil Protection is enough to characterise nationalism the exercise of the country's right, since the unacceptable government position that defined as "red line" the six nautical miles of territorial waters leaves room for room and gives an alibi to the dangerous movements of "Oruts Reis", especially near Kastelorizos, while the other, SYRIZA, with a controversial and speculative - I would say - a position for extending the territorial waters to twelve nautical miles only south and east of Crete fuels the escalation of tension in the region. We say clearly that extending territorial waters to twelve nautical miles is a right stemming from the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and applies to each country and to our country. At the same time we stress that in the hands of those who have and manage power today it cannot serve the people's interests nor can it function as a panacea and give a real response to Turkish aggression. On the contrary, we say that it can complicate the situation even further, increase competition at the expense of all the peoples in the region. The reproach to you is the least the people must finally give you, of course, who can and must show confidence in his own powers, to believe in these inexhaustible forces, to strengthen his struggle for dismissal from imperialist plans, to release them from them, with him to make a test of his place, to finally overthrow a system that only brings down crises, poverty, misery. So, to the Government of New Democracy, it is reproachful, even in the Civic Opposition of the SYRIZA, that all those who serve a state, a system that they cannot protect not only popular property and housing, but not even health and human life. The JRC is voting against the face of the Minister of Finance - co-responsible, not least, to say this about the crime being committed against "LARCO" - a whole policy of the Government of New Democracy, as well as against those parties, such as SYRIZA, who have planned the crime against the people's housing and property, which is now being completed by the Government of New Democracy with the Banking Code. This overall and clear character is today our vote. Don't forget that. We will do everything we can to ensure that our day-to-day political work does not forget it, that the Greek people, who are the only one, are, of course, responsible for finally giving their final form to your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u330	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba. It is called in Step immediately after Ms. Fotin Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, government policy with its practices and conservative choices lead to new adventures in the country on all the fronts that are open today. They create new deadlocks in the economy, above all, in society, especially in the weakest. Uncertainty has reached the "red" and every day Greek citizens experience insecurity in their everyday lives. That is why our reproach is against the Mitsotakis Government as a whole. At a time when one failure succeeds the other, when voices have started and even voices are heard within the New Democracy party, especially in the handling of the government on national issues, when the image that Mr Mitsotakis has so much art takes shape for himself and with enough money in the media is shown by God's machine. Who? Mr. Tsipras. He relieves him of his responsibilities, takes him out of the bunker of responsibility and turns against an individual Minister of Government Mitsotakis. It is confirmed, ladies and gentlemen, in this way once again that Mr Tsipras is the best political sponsor of Mr Mitsotakis and of the Right. That's enough, Mr. Tsipras! Let it go, you don't have it! Don't worry about the Opposition! We have been covering the Change Movement for a long time and it has been an effective one. We have no confidence in this government. We do not give a vote of confidence to Mr Mitsotakis and to any of his ministers. In fact, I would say that we have an open political dispute with ministers distinguished by political courage, who are still trying to cover up the responsibilities of the New Democracy, the Caramanli Government of 2004-2009 on the derailment of the economy that led to the crisis and the memorialities, who think that, with the tactics of Gobels,'say, say, something will ultimately remain at the expense of PASOK.' They believe that the Greek people will continue to live supposedly in the trap of antimony and populism at least. So every time, when one of your ministers or yourself, Prime Minister, you refer to the PASOK and the 2009 crisis, we will remind you that you in the budgets that you voted for the Karamanli government's budget crime with a deficit of 15.6%. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I am tabling the 2013 budget to which today's Minister, Mr Stakoras, is also signing. The deficit is recognised precisely in the percentage I told you and all the Members of the New Democracy voted for it at that time. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above budget, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Because we know that behind the attempt to exorcise the current government there is the well-known right that has reached the country on the brink of bankruptcy, which has deceived the citizens and misled the European institutions. We know that today they wear this staff of the Centre to mislead again, to forget their historical responsibilities, to forget the "caramanic camp", which is, of course, the undeclared owner of the party, to forget the special role of the "caramanic camp" all these years of the crisis and its special relationship with SYRIZA. Mr. Mitsotakis, we invoke you and your government. You have responsibility for the country's course. In his policy of "seeing and doing" you left unexploited valuable time and underestimated situations. You have proceeded without any plan with revolts and contradictions. You are responsible for the fact that the country is walking without a national line and without an internal sluggish front on our national issues, without a strategy, while Turkey is unfolding its neo-ethnic and revision strategy and escalating aggression against us. Your aim was a European Council decision that would put a brake on Turkey. You didn't do it. And at the same time, we're watching what you're doing. You are tolerated and you are not talking about the game of Germany with Turkey that exposes the European institutions and is also fading away the famous issue of European solidarity. And not only do you tolerate it, but you are also going back to Greece and saying that you are absolutely satisfied with the developments and these decisions that have not protected us from anything. You leave space with this policy to Mr Erdogan to attempt to create walls against our country, with lasting retreat that opens up appetites and dismantles Turkey, unable to effectively defend our sovereignty and our sovereign rights. Mr. Mitsotakis, your secret and obvious diplomacy managed to bring Erdogan within twelve nautical miles. You did that. You allowed "Oruts Race" to make undisturbed walks and in practice to challenge our right to extend our territorial waters and, of course, to question the EEZ of Kastelorizou. You are personally responsible for what is happening, for all the developments since you have repeatedly refused to convene the Council of Political Heads. But, once again, Prime Minister, you do not have a white check. You have a great responsibility. You lost control of the second wave of pandemic, so we lost what we all won together in the first two months. From now on we will be talking about the coronary 'every one yesterday and better'. From the quarantine you led to reassurance and you gave the slogan of relaxation. We know what happened with the untaxed opening of borders. We know what happened with tourism, with the crowding of public transport, with the crowding in schools. We know what happened in the homes and in the structures of migrants. The situation since August has been evident to have become difficult. What did you do? You made a map and watched him change colors. You were watching red spread and you weren't taking measures, and I know that there were scientists' suggestions to get these measures taken earlier. You're coming back and you're interfering. You did not hire, Mr. Mitsotakis, permanent doctors and nurses for intensive care units. I would like to state for the record that only on 22 October, since we all started the beds together, the donation of the House, only then did you come here to the House for the creation of the seats. It's still not the notice. You understand that intake can be done after the vaccine is found. It will always be useful why do in Greece need intensive treatment unit beds, but now that we need them where they are? I'm filing it. It's the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So instead of recruiting permanent staff in time and train them, what are you doing? You are seconding qualified personnel from other large public hospitals in Attica, and as a result weakening these hospitals, at the same time as in the name of the pandemic you have done thousands of ruffel cases. We ask where these people are? Nobody knows. We have not received a reply so far from the relevant ministers. And you allow the trouble of testing in the private sector. We've been through this too many times, but I won't get tired of repeating it. Everyone's charging whatever they want. You don't support the sanitary. They don't want applause, Prime Minister. Actual support in practice wants. Recognition of their offer. They're on the front line of battle, they're at risk and their families. Do the elementary. Put them in the heavy and unhealthy. You accept our amendment. Self-taxation of newspapers and a special allowance for these people while the pandemic lasts. Show them, finally, you recognize their offer. Look, I don't get any impression that you don't really support the National Health System. You never thought so. Your plans have always been to cut it and give it to the private sector. Now, of course, you cannot do this easily, because in the crisis the National Health System has emerged as the main protector of citizens in the country and will defend it in every way. What are you doing, though? You allow it to accept the pressures and to weigh, because it has no real support, and through inertia you slowly let it collapse. And since we are talking about health issues and I have seen your initiative today and your statements, I would like to inform you about the following: In 2016, forty-five women Members sent a letter to the then competent Minister of Health and we asked him to cover digital mammography because it is very important for the prevention of breast cancer and because the technology concerned was quite recent and the Agency did not cover it. Indeed, Mr. Xanthos responded to - we were women MPs from all parties of the House - and regulated the coverage of the EEAY for digital mammography from the beginning of 2017. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u332	Say how many things have happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u333	Look, Prime Minister, there are issues that are not available for communication and consumption that require greater humanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u334	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u335	What is most needed is finally digital mastographers in other regions of Greece, and not only in the private sector, because there are remote areas and islands that women have no access to. Let's see, then, what can be done, hierarchy and be at your side to improve this situation. No, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no., no, no., no., no., no., no., no., You have a responsibility, Prime Minister, for not taking timely measures to keep the society up and running, as we tell you since March. The recession is in danger of reaching a two-digit figure, and you tell us that growth is a bit magically overthrown. Just once again do what you know very well, alter the numbers, trying once again to mislead the Greek people. The reality is, however, different. Small and medium-sized enterprises are threatened with padlocks. It is characteristic that only two thousand seven hundred and thirty-seven small and medium-sized enterprises have been strengthened. Only EUR 123 million of the EUR 5.1 billion was allocated to the most needy businesses. You have left, Prime Minister, the banks only to support the few and powerful who consider their customers to be good. Greece has a public debt of 187,4% of GDP, the highest in the Eurozone, which is even increasing by more than 10%. In the first eight months of 2020, approximately 30 billion was invaded by the European Central Bank and deposits increased by 11 billion euros. But where did all that money go? Liquidity isn't enough where it takes. The financing of free professionals, farmers and individual enterprises - listen to this - has fallen by 13%. Liquidity is zero for most companies, according to data from the Bank of Greece. I don't say that, the Bank of Greece says that. I present the relevant table for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] You must apologise to the small- and medium-sized businessman, to the trader who knocks on the door of bank borrowing, but it seems that he needs a blue certificate to be accepted by TYPIX. You create ruins, Prime Minister, in the economy and you have a goal: to eliminate small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This was not achieved by the memorials in the past ten years. Tourism has suffered a overwhelming blow, because you did not support it in time as you should. Hundreds of thousands of workers live with the poverty allowance of EUR 534, 73% of workers get wages below EUR 1,000 and 12% receive 200 euros. That leads to the doctrine of 'half-wage, half-wage' that you are implementing very faithfully through the 'CONT - WORK' programme. Only between March and June 2020 were ninety thousand jobs lost. Today there is no longer any protection for the first residence, since a few months ago you definitively ended any extension of the suspension of auctions and did not bring about regulation. Of course Mr Tsipras is also talking about protecting the first residence, when he and Mr Tsakalotos, who were shouting - remember? - "No house in the hands of a banker," they abolished PASOK's Law 3869/2010 and proceeded to twenty-five thousand auctions, thus opening the way to Mr. Mitsotakis. So I come back, Prime Minister, and I ask how will people at risk of losing their homes from a real failure to respond? Your bankruptcy code defines as a limit, even to be the owner of his household, a monthly family income of EUR 900. To say this, then, simply, Prime Minister, a couple of tourist workers who are suspended, each of them takes EUR 534, the sum, that is, exceeds the limit you set, does not fall under your regulation and they will lose their home. In recent months, as I said, workers of EUR 200 have increased. So I ask the government and you, Mr Mitsotakis, this: A worker who takes EUR 200 a month, what exactly will he do to save his home? How will it respond to the very difficult conditions you set with your bankruptcy code, so that it doesn't end up losing it? In all these questions your answer is the same: indifference and analgesia. You drive to mass auctions, you do not protect the first residence, you do not give an opportunity to honest entrepreneurs, you leave the weak borrowers north to the banks. You are turning the owner into a tenant of his home and finally giving the charismatic shot to the middle class and the weakest, with a bill dictated by the banks and the funds. You still have, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, responsibility because in the name of the so-called state of staff, you have made the "Maximum Anonymous Company", a centralized, hard-controlled structure of the Prime Minister himself, centred on the Maximos Mansion, which intervenes in everything. Of course, we have seen the results so far. He's screwed up. Build a new client state. That's what you're doing well. Administrative staff shall only be selected with the party passport of the New Democracy. The number of transmigrants breaks all the records. Of the thousand seven hundred ten recruitments we reached within just one year in two thousand eight hundred ninety - two in August. They're your posters. The Secretary-General and the Governors shall be appointed, even without qualifications, by the Prime Minister. Legislative acts are used to become parties with opaque conventions. All are retrospectively baptized. Your so-called state also lost the Pope, while saying, with the well-known propaganda of yours, of course, that you had done everything, you were ready to apply the court ruling. And then, to justify the unjustified, you started to say a series of lies. So I have here in my hands all the relevant provisions that say what the Ministry of Civil Protection should do to prevent us from getting to this point to avoid fiasco. I'm thinking about tabling them or reading them to you, don't they have to stay intact this time? I'll testify to you. Let the Prime Minister see them to judge the ministers. [[At this point the Member, the President of the Change Movement Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] You have baptized your MP special analysts and internationalists to monopolize TV panels. In every way you try to remove pluralism from TV. Ladies and gentlemen, new conditions are being created throughout the world. Conservatives and populists are retreating on a global scale, because they simply cannot monitor the changes and conditions that are taking place. It is perhaps the first time post-war that there is such a serious global debate about the leading role of the state in the economy and society. It is not the markets, it is the states at this time that are holding the world economy, public health systems and the social state upright. So we are at the beginning of a great political and ideological battle. No matter how much New Democracy tries to hide behind a chip for social democracy or offer chairs, its DNA doesn't change. It paves the way for work, for the death of the merchant, for the privatisation of the national health system, for the sale of natural wealth, for the reestablishment of the state - of course only with 'blue' children - and for the limitation of pluralism and accountability. And all this is always a hug with the banks and her great business friends. On this ground, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no fertile seed of change, no fertile seed of reforms or investments with European money that will ultimately bring Greek society forward and keep it up in this very great trial that lives. It cannot raise any real hope of equality and social justice. And be sure, Prime Minister, that today's insecurity, uncertainty, anxiety, fear nurtured in every soul and in every house on your own responsibility are the seeds of the challenge that has begun. These seeds will bear very fast fruit and will bring about the great change that our country, this afflicted society, and especially the great change that young people need, those who so much fear you. We told you, not authoritarianism in the new generation, you must convince them, you must bend upon them, your measures must have logic, they must have all the time, they must understand that you are right. Self-government brings the absolutely opposite results and is at the expense of all of us in the end. We, the Change Movement, are here standing and strong, the real progressive Opposition with a weapon of our values, our work, our proposals, but also the Greek people's vindication of PASOK and its "sun" that has warmed up the hearts of the people in Greece for many years. Now, eleven years later, every house knows how unjust and drunk and who was accused of the great democratic party and how much our home needs a real socialist and democratic change that will leave no one behind, which will not play with the dignity and pride of the Greeks. This requirement is gaining ground. Every day this new change only we in the Change Movement can guide it. So we go forward and invite the Greeks and Greek women to join forces with us! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is now being called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance Mr Stakoura is indeed taking place in a period of unprecedented uncertainty and insecurity for Greeks and Greeks. So the government has accused us of being possible in such a period of time, with great intensity in Greek-Turkish relations and a heightening of the pandemic crisis, of putting forward a motion of censure. And from the outset, I would like to turn to the point of view and ask Mr Stakoura, but above all to you, Mr Mitsotakis, because I do not hide the minds of those who have tabled this motion of censure with the Minister of Finance that you have the responsibility of this bill. And of course I don't know if your decision not to turn this proposal into a vote of confidence means that you don't care too much to protect your Minister. It's rare what you're doing. I don't know if I'm ruining your plans, because you've already decided to reshape it. But today, massagedly, all fifty-eight, you will vote against the motion of censure. What I know, though, is that the question is reversed and it is not how it is possible to table a motion of censure at a critical moment for our national issues, for the economy and for the pandemic to brag, but how it is possible at a time when pandemic is here with a rapid increase in incidents and deaths, unfortunately, in our country, the moment when your inability to support households and businesses has now appeared and unemployment is increasing and incomes are falling and the packages are by thousands on the market, when we have experienced the worst stage in Greek-Turkish relations for decades, you, your government, to say it popular, to have no more dolphin, to have no more care except how to bring a bill of how to go bank and first home. It is incomprehensible for us to be this priority now that all over Europe, precisely because of the pandemic, we have a suspension of bankruptcy and liquidation and not a change in the bankruptcy code and the lifting of protection of the first residence you are doing here. And for this reason alone, that in the midst of this multi-faceted crisis, a health crisis, a crisis of economics, a security crisis, bring this bill here, and that is why this reproach is worthwhile. And I would like to be allowed, ladies and gentlemen, to begin my intervention from developments in national matters, because these developments are crucial. I would like to ask you directly, Mr Mitsotakis, if you are feeling, and you and your ministers and Members of the parliamentary majority, so comfortable with everything that is going on, if you are proud of your effectiveness in foreign policy. For more than forty days, Orutch Race violates the country's sovereign rights. And one thing you were telling us is that he is not doing research and he is not in breach of it, because the wind is paralyzing, and the other is telling us that he is not doing any research and that he is not breaking it, because he has Turkish warships to accompany it that make noise, but you were forced to evacuate the consultant of national security, your advisor, because he told the truth to the media that he is doing investigations and that he is breaking sovereign rights, and every week we have a new illegal NAVTEX from Turkey all the time, while at the point in Turkish war ships to break the 12-mile limit on Greek islands. Are you proud of everything that's been going on? Are you comfortable? You, Mr Mitsotakis, are a stumbling block - I hope not even fatal - without any strategy, without any initiative, you are following developments. We have failed to guarantee sanctions against Turkey on high-level summits. You do not clearly state what our red lines are and you are trying to deal with Turkish provocation, I consider communication within the country to be your own concern. Yesterday, Tuesday, Mr. Gerapitris, the Minister of State, the closest to you, told us that our red line is the dominance of six miles. Alas, that was missing not to be the hard core of dominance six miles. Be careful, at twelve miles, based on International Law, it is our absolute and inalienable right and we have sovereignty, with a special exercise of our sovereignty. But the six miles we've been exercising is a hard core of sovereignty. Our territorial waters are as if they were ground. And you're telling us that this is the red line, that is, the border all six miles? And the Minister of National Defence today comes, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, and says that the protection of Greece does not contain the potential, but only the absolute sovereign rights of the country. So he's telling us that the red line is at six miles. And I ask you what you will do if tomorrow comes a drill south or east of Crete. What are you going to do, if the twenty-eighth mediterranean west is violated, that is to say, investigations are being carried out within the recently defined exclusive economic zone with Egypt, that is, if we have a recent violation of existing sovereign rights? These are crucial questions. You're not answering. And while you're not answering, you're sending a message to the other side. For many times, and silence, let alone your misguided statements of Ministers, are also a strong message, such as what was sent to Parliament yesterday. While violations and Turkish challenging within the twelve miles goes on, yesterday the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, spoke - I imagine in consultation with you - and, of course, he obviously wanted to justify his inadequacy on a crucial issue. And that's why he attacked SYRIZA. Illegally attacked SYRIZA. And I am referring to the lack of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which is charged by his political leader, to arrest the Golden Earp criminal, Mr. Pappas, who we all knew was indicted, and the original decision in relation to innocence had even been made and we all expected the final decision, and it is incomprehensible that the Greek Police would not be able to know where he is. And he attacked to cover his guilt and responsibility for SYRIZA. But that's not the problem. We're used to this. The national problem is that within this delusional attack on Civicism, he dared to evade as being nationalism - listen, ladies and gentlemen - the established and guaranteed by international law the right of our country to unilateral expansion of the gynaecological zone at twelve nautical miles. And I'm asking you what kind of message you're sending to the other side with this. Do you understand that? What message do you send, when one Minister, - your next, - speaks of a red line at six miles and the other minister - not your next, but rather your favourite one - speaks of nationalism, referring to the exercise of our sovereign right to extend to twelve miles? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a serious word and, in particular, when it is addressed by a party minister on the left. To keep you from confusing, nationalists and nationalism in this place residences, blossoms and develops in your own party, in your own headquarters. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you must know that the concept of patriotism is very different from that of nationalism. It's another thing to love and defend your homeland, and another to hate other people's homelands. So nationalists are the Nazis of the Golden Dawn, nationalists were many of them with whom you went hand in hand in the demonstrations and the Prespecies Agreement, which you are now not only applying, but honour and fight from above for their implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u338	What was the camouflage? Are you proud of Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u339	What was the camouflage?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u340	What was it that you allied with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u341	And, yes, we are proud of this Prespecies Agreement, despite the cries of the nationalists, because it was a patriotic agreement. And today it looks like that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Today this seems to be what Greek warplanes oversee the neighbour's airspace, which Greek military officers of special forces exercise in the lake of Ohrid and not Turks. So we're proud of that. But other patriotism and other nationalism. Because nationalists and nationalists were also the ones who unfortunately led to the national tragedy in Cyprus. That is why, Mr Chrysochide, you must be careful of your words. Because here the fact that we have the honour to represent, the left-wing party, progress, democracy has given a blood tax for the country in the years of the National Resistance, in the years of the National Liberation Front, when nationalists and so-called nationalists especially during the Occupational period were partners of the conquerors. Take care, then, of what you say in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u342	Will you tell us anything about Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u343	You therefore have to give a clear answer on this today, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u344	For Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u345	For Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u346	Do you adopt what Mr Chrysochoidis said? Give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u347	Please speak to the Chief of Response. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u348	And you know, I'm not asking you to take just one place, empty your Minister, but basically take a position. I and we call on you not just to say the trimmed, stereotype, our sovereign right - we have heard it today by the Foreign Minister - but basically to take an initiative of national and patriotic responsibility. We do not urge you - I repeat - to engage in war operations. We're standing against military solutions. We are always in favour of peace and dialogue. But it is wrong to think that the message of active diplomacy is a message of involvement. It's exactly the opposite. An effective sign of deterrence with clear red lines is what will prevent escalation and aggression on the other side. So we are not urging you on the path of operational tension, but we are asking you to leave the path of diplomatic inertia and passivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u349	No inaction, Mr President! No inertial!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u350	I will not answer you, Mr Papoutsis. The moments are critical. You know better than you and many of your resignation whether or not there is inertia. Let it go. What I'm going to ask you to do is take seriously the proposal of the Officer's Representation to exercise our sovereign right for the twelve miles in Crete and in line with developments south of Kassos, Karpathos, Rhodes and Kastelorizos. Because the only way to defend your sovereign right to de facto today is to exercise it. We will, however, have a chance to discuss this at other times. If you had your own responsibility, we could have discussed them at a Council of Heads of State or Government. You don't. I've heard Mrs. Gennamas say it's your responsibility for what happens. I'm signing it. We could also discuss them institutionally, but not through this process, with personal briefings. But I come to the main issue. Anyone who has followed the debate these three days I think should have been amazed at the way Members of the Partnership and Ministers have tried to defend the motion of censure with the Minister of Finance. They went up after each other to this Step and almost repeated as if they were talking from the same tape, without any communication with the arguments on the other side, without any desire to have a copy, only with the parrot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u351	You weren't here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, I understand the irritation, but will they let me speak or want to have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u353	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u354	We have no problem in dialogue as well, but it is a little difficult and with the mask now we have a dialogue. I can't hear you very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u355	You give them ideas, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u356	So I was saying, Mr President, that the main argument of all Members of the parliamentary majority and of the ministers was that it was all the fault of SYRIZA. I did not, however, hear anyone actually defend the bill as such and I think that 'all is the fault of SYRIZA' cannot be an adequate response to a bill of your own, rather than a draft law of SYRIZA, and indeed, to a bill with which the overwhelming majority of the representatives of all the institutions expressed and placed during the parliamentary process, all, with an exception of course, the Association of Banks: Traders, craftsmen, consumer associations, legal associations throughout the country and, of course, all the parties to the opposition. All of these people think it's enough to answer "for everything is the fault of SYRIZA"? Apparently, they're not all SYRIZA, are they? But let's go see - and I'm forced to do this - one by one of the main arguments that were constantly repeated as a parrot from this step. We have to answer them one by one, because I think that these arguments are completely false. Point 1st: protection of first residence. What happened, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years? There was the Katseli law, which provided protection. Modified by the Stathakis Act, which included debts to the public sector and also provided protection. From 2010 until you elected no other government has abolished the protection of first residence. In February 2019, to which you are constantly referring, the protection of the first home has not ended, but the possibility of submitting new applications to the Katseli Act - to say things with their name - and immediately thereafter, in March 2019, legislation was adopted by our government, namely the so-called Flamouraris Law, the then Minister of State, who dealt with this law, which also provided protection. This law established a debt-regulation solution binding on banks that protected the main residence, with a view to resolving a large part of the problem in a short time and without any courts. Even if the bank refused the arrangement, the court was obliged to validate the specific solution recommended by the law. The debtor had no insecurity or uncertainty about the outcome of his case. We are, of course, criticised that this law has not finally worked. How it will work, after you have been elected in the meantime and you have been responsible for monitoring its implementation and adapting the criteria so that it can function. So to end the fairy tale, SYRIZA never abolished Katseli. The truth is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u357	The law of PASOK, not the law of Katseli, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u358	Madam Gennamata, if you want to claim the political paternity of Mrs Katseli and all the progressive PASOK officials who have joined the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, we must do so. I have no objections. But I will agree with you: in this place, in fact, all those laws protecting social cohesion and enrolled in the conscience of the Greek people with the names of the ministers belong to the ministers and the people on the wider progressive side. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm not the only one representing her. I want to believe that we are all represented by those who sit by the centre and left in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u359	Do what you don't hear. Lucky persecutors have come to you and not progressive!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u360	But allow me not to lose the squeeze of my words and thoughts. The government of SYRIZA never left Greek citizens without legal and institutional safeguard, without protection of the first residence. We had, in fact, made a public commitment to both the Institutions and the Greek people to bring a holistic protection plan, a framework for the protection of first residence at the end of 2019, and then New Democracy came to the elections in the summer of 2019. Now look at the extent to which the twist of reasoning arrives. At the same time you tell us that you received the country without first home protection and at the same time that we committed ourselves to our lenders for their future abolition. Both of you can't do it together. Or are you going to say that we have already abolished it - so what do we commit to abolishing the repealed ones? - or you say we had not abolished it, and we were committed to abolishing it in the future. Both of them can't be. We do not, however, need, ladies and gentlemen, to look too hard to see what really is going on in order to verify your lie. As long as it enters the website of the Private Debt Management Secretariat today. I read what he says: 'until 31 July 2020, citizens could protect their first residence by electronic requesting that the debts that threaten it be settled favourably. This is achieved," he writes here, "with Law 4605/2019". What law? The SYRIZA government's Flambury Law. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You say it yourself. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But to remember, what you committed yourself to the institutions a few months after the takeover of governance in November 2019. I'll read the translation and submit it to the Minutes. You said: "The free enforcement against any security provided for loans including first residence will be ensured". That was what you promised in November 2019 a few months after you took over. I put it in the Minutes, remember it. [[At this point, the President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And a few months later, in February 2020, in the new memorial surveillance report, to remember what Mr Stagiras and Mr Mitsotakis committed to. ‘The Greek authorities shall repeat, reaffirm their commitment that the protection of the first residence will expire in April 2020’. That's what you said, that's what you committed! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, are you not ashamed to say so thickly lies, that when you received supposedly there was no protection, when in February 2020 you were expressly committed to the institutions to abolish it in April? You think this isn't going to be publicized? Let's go below, second point. I heard here in the repetitive tape that it was the SYRIZA that raised the private debt. And here I really raise my hands up. They have sinned and mercy and shamed at the same time! You've ruled forty whole years and it's your fault that SYRIZA has raised the private debt in this country? You left in 2009 a deficit of 15% and households overdue. You brought the PSI, you ran the insurance funds and bond holders. Before you made the bubble of structured bonds, the bubble of housing loans, consumer loans. Who did all this? And it's your fault that SYRIZA and four and a half years for the growth of private debt? And you're not a little embarrassed to say that? Who are you telling? Who are you telling? Are you telling us that in 2015 you left us empty funds and a country bankrupt within the memorandum and we left you, in the summer of 2019, 37 billion, regulated public debt and eleven consecutive quarters at positive growth rates? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is it the SYRIZA and the private debt that, on our day, unhelpful loans to the banks have been reduced by EUR 22 billion? Is it the SYRIZA that for years you have been inhabiting both public and private debt and in four years we have reduced the non-performing loans by EUR 22 billion? Here I submit to the minutes the official figures of the Bank of Greece. [[At this point, the President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Aren't you ashamed to say that? Okay, I understand the propaganda has its needs, the tape over and over. These media are going to play. But today we will tell the truth, that the Greek people should know who fought, that they were killed in order to protect their rights, and who are today we are brought to the Memorandums again without having a Memorandum. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I come to the third point of deception in the auctions. While it was - as I have shown - the institutional and legal protection of first homes, you say: But have you not been auctioning? Yes, we did, while we were protected by vulnerable, popular households, first residence. You're telling us, "Why were auctions done?" And you say a number for 20 thousand or 22 thousand or exactly what the number is, I don't know. Of course, there were auctions, but there were auctions for those who, after they had eaten up the businesses, lived a wealthy life with their money, probably abroad, with villas, lower-stage, boats intact. There were auctions for those who owed millions and nobody touched them. But the first residence for these days has also been institutionally and legally guaranteed. And really - I will not go to you now, I address those who are listening to me - a question of reasonableness. In the period when we ruled, remember - everyone remembers - what the context was, especially by some media when the Foreign Minister of SYRIZA's loan was for a loan, they went with the machete and cameras outside the banks and asked if the ATMs were making loans. At this time we ruled, not with a favorable media system to protect us and mock us. Really, would there be first home auctions, people's homes, people's households going out on the street and there wouldn't be any journalists, cameras, photojournalists taking interviews? Survivor and Big Brother would set up! The simplest question I ask. So you're saying there's been auctions. Prove to me, bring me evidence of people's residence, first residence. And you're telling us that there were twenty-two thousand. Yes, sir. I ask you to look at the website of electronic auctions today. Do you know how many people are already uploaded? It's seventy-nine thousand auctions. You were talking about twenty-two thousand in four years. Now there are seventy - nine thousand for the next period until the end of the year! Only for next week are three hundred forty-five! Are you kidding us? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the only fig sheet left by the end of the year is a decision by the banks themselves to judge whether they want to protect vulnerable people. And you don't legislate. I think you announced it at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, that by the end of the year you will extend the protection. And despite the fact that we have brought you into your own commitment to voting on it, you refused to vote on it, and you now have the courage to speak. Let's go further to the substance of the matter, though. I want to start with the most obvious. For the first time in our legal system the concept of the bankruptcy of individuals, not only companies and merchants, are now going to go bankrupt. A household goes bankrupt like a business and an employee like a dealer. And what's going to lose whoever goes bankrupt? Everything he has in his name will lose. And you know, not only are you targeting the first residence, but also at salaries, allowances, everything. What will be the second chance you have invoke of the bankrupt who will lose everything? Even if he manages to stand on his feet sometime, to have an income to live his family, you and that will get him. What exceeds 611 euros from the possible income after proclamation of bankruptcy will in various ways oblige citizens to give it. And, of course, the fact that natural persons are now going to go bankrupt means that they will also have criminal responsibilities linked to this bankruptcy, namely bankruptcy. What criminal responsibilities will it be? Even in jail. I would remind you that in 2015, in the deepest darkness, we voted to decouple non-payment of debts to the public for up to EUR 100,000. And now that the economy has come out of the tunnel, you are preparing to bring citizens back into jail with prison sentences. In short, you criminalize poverty. That's what you're doing. You also have a setting here for your favorite topic, the topic of work. With the current law, employment contracts are still in force even after the company has been bankrupt, and so workers have the opportunity to make a few more wages, while it lasts. With your bill, labour contracts are automatically solved and without compensation by proclamation of bankruptcy. Such a zeal, guys? Such a zeal for this speed to win all banks right away, all right? But you are telling us that it is being given as an incentive to the bankrupt, as a great relief for their debt relief. You say in a few words that it will all be okay for a hired man, a householder, a small businessman for three years, but then he will be rid of all his burdens and debts, and he will be free. And here's the poaching. And this is a lie. The exemption you are referring to is already provided for in the legal framework you are coming to abolish. Both in our current bankruptcy law, in the case of businesses, and in Katseli, in the case of natural persons and households, the exemption applies to three years. So what are you doing here? Scanning everyone and everything, promising as a paradise something that already exists. What else do you promote as beneficial? That citizens will be protected from evictions. Another big lie. But anyone who makes up EUR 7,000 a year - because they're supposed to have the right to rent their homes - will also lose ownership and everything he owns. You're just gonna give him the right to be a tenant in his own house. And if after twelve years he could buy it, the rent he paid will not be calculated. Even if, in the middle of the twelfth year, in three, four years, someone, brother, wins the jocker - because only there can hope with you - and find the money, he will not be able to buy his house, if he does not give the rents of the whole 12-year period, in addition to the commercial value of the property. And the question is why? Why are you bringing this law so hard and inflexible to borrowers? Because that is, if you want, the substance and the objective, that there should be a mass change in ownership rights by small and medium-sized and householders in the funds. Why? For the simple reason that banks need collateral to present to the funds to them the rest of the red loans they have in their portfolios. And what are these safeguards? The homes of vulnerable and small- and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that is to say, those who have endured the crisis of the memorials and will not now withstand the new crisis that is coming. What if the change in ownership in this way ensures the massity of the change in ownership, the speed of how is it ensured? With the possibility of banks declaring in themselves a borrower bankrupt without either the consent of the borrower or time-consuming procedures. The banks will no longer be able to submit a proposal for regulation to the household and not to go ahead with any agreement and no compromise, just to take the house. And if they do not propose any regulation, then it will be “take it or have it”, they will also apply it to the public and the borrower. Or bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that this kind of scandalous legislative framework in favour of banks and against society has never been in our country - certainly - and I feel that it will be difficult to find it in an international context. Honestly, a question arises here: Why is this all happening? You know, I'm going to try to answer that on the basis of the substance. You know, banks have a key responsibility for both the country's bankruptcy and the economic progress. They're responsible for the sea loans, the loan and the savage ones. They are responsible for the bubbles of red loans. They are responsible for the non-productive financing of the real economy. And of course, for the sake of them - we know all of this - in order to be saved, we have been subjected to enormous sacrifices, through memoranda of extreme austerity for an eight-year period, and, indeed, we have managed and kept them - and rightly so, because there are the testimonies of the poor people and small and medium-sized businessmen, and rightly so, with three answerable recapitalisations of public money from the lack of the Greek people's resources. However, let us be honest. It's not just banks and bankers the problem. Mostly, I would say that the problem is political leaders and governments. We've fought for four years to unleash the mud of yours. We've protected the weakest. We put an end to the rageal party of the mighty. Okay, we paid this in a sense, as we paid, and the fact that by aiming to clear the country, we ruled for a long time with hands tied behind the back. You're the one who's here now, and you're polarizing me. But again, you are politically in favour of the powerful and against the many. Because banks and bankers, you know, don't work on their own. You encourage them with your political choices to do what they do. Take, for example, what they are doing today, at the time of the crisis, after the pandemic, what they do in the Greek economy, at a time of great economic crisis, while small and medium-sized enterprises are narrowing. The banks once again have the money canal in the real economy. The businessmen in need of borrowing, not getting a loan from the outside can't go through. And would anyone say that the banks have no liquidity, as they were in our day, in the difficult years of the memoranda and before? The opposite happens. According to the figures of the Bank of Greece, the liquidity of the Greek banks is through the increase in deposits. However, mainly through the raising of liquidity from the Eurosystem, the interbank market and the guarantees of the Development Bank in 2020, neither by 2, nor by 10, nor by 30, but by 56 billion euros, their liquidity has increased. How many of these EUR 56 billion have been allocated to the real economy? 10. Now listen. Of these ten, five, half, that is, five billion, do you know where they're headed? In five, only five, very large companies, which operate on the Greek market, namely those who either have the least need to obtain loans or can prove that they do not need loans, and are rushing to exploit and favour themselves. They're good. You're the ones who do the thing, when only five big business groups have taken half of the liquidity, and everyone else shares the remaining 5 billion of the 56 banks have taken. The question is what will happen to the many? Because the other half, the other five billion, obviously the vulnerable small and medium-sized ones are not in. What about the many? Well, here's a first picture of what is going to happen to the many of us, Mr. Stavoura and Mr. Mitsotakis. Because the worst of all is that, in the midst of the crisis that comes after your pandemic and economic choices, you come today to name them as strategic bad payers. So who are the new strategic bad payers? They are the workers who are now either made redundant or see their employment relationship change and reduce their income. They are the businessmen who see their turnover nullified but their obligations to grow. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, these are the new strategic misappropriations of the real malpractices, believe me, who are not sweating their ears. And I am referring to well-known gloomy businessmen who are bankrupt but who live a provocative life, and who see their loans from the banks today being challenging - for the people provocatively, not for them - whether these majestics are casino owners or are well-known shipowners, who do not have the same treatment in their loans as the many, anonymous small and medium-sized businessmen, who are now massively leading to bankruptcy. Only Piraeus Bank cut almost 0.5 billion to well-known Greek shipowners. It's all known. I can cite dozens of examples. And while the world sees it all, you now come and say that the small and medium-sized ones will go bankrupt for debts of EUR 50,000 and EUR 100,000 and call them strategic mispaid, while shipowners are not strategic bad payers, they are benefactors. But let's not hide, the biggest strategic badge in the country, Mr. Mitsotakis, is your party, it's New Democracy. You owe more than 300 million sea loans to the banks, and that is the money of the Greek people. Of course, I'd say it's the banks themselves. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Listen, I hope you do not dare, at least now that you want to go bankrupt for a few thousand euros, do the favour of the shareholders at Piraeus Bank, who, as I am hearing, do not want to pay for a second time the due interest of EUR 165 million from the loan of EUR 2 billion, the so-called Coco, which they received from the Greek State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u361	You don't know them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u362	I'm listening, I'm learning. Haven't you heard? I hope they don't dare and you don't dare. I'm not saying anything else. Mr. Mitsotakis, today I think you don't owe answers to me and SYRIZA. Today if you owe answers to this abortion you bring, you owe them to Greek society, a society of struggle in the middle of a great economic crisis. Unemployment is expected to go from 17% to 21% this year, even if the recession at the end of the year is less than 10%, more than one out of ten, in the vast majority of young people, are already working for 200 euros. These, Mr Mitsotakis, are your works, no government and no Prime Minister have been able in so short a time to destroy so much. So, for a moment at the edge of SYRIZA, the arrogance, the tape of lies, and answer not to us, answer the focus workers who work ten hours and twelve hours without paying half an hour's pay, without any protection, without any control by the Labour Inspectorate. Respond to businessmen, shopkeepers in the center of Athens, who have saved their shops and their homes from the throat of the memorials and now in the crisis you are preparing to take them away. Answer traders, not us, who tell you that with the new bankruptcy code 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises face a direct risk of bankruptcy. Answer the parents who took a loan to study their children, and eventually they and their children will end up working ass and save their home and their property from the bank. Answer the farmers who have been experiencing an unscrupulous disaster in recent months, and you have come to build the property. I mean, what? The earth, the tool they live with? Why? For the banks. Look at all those people in the eyes and answer, not us. It's not just us talking to you today, it's mostly those people who talk to you. Today you're accountable to them, Mr. Mitsotakis. And remember, at the end of the day you will give them an account, not this elite that you serve with your policy and that, of course, usually returns this support. As far as we are concerned, we will be here, and we will be in front of you, mainly because we have a duty to be here and to be in front of you, and to every citizen who is again driven to despair. We have a debt towards society and towards the country, which has been sacrificed by sacrifices, and we have also managed to make the Memorandum out of the crisis. We did not get the country out of the memorials, we did not regulate the debt, we did not leave 37 billion in the funds you manage, Mr Staikora, to come here today and lead us back to the hardest days of the memorandum. We therefore have a responsibility to resist injustice, to resist the dissolution of social cohesion, to resist the attempted redistribution towards the strong, to restructure the market and to dismantle the middle class. After all, this was your greatest political deception. The middle class that in her name and behind her flag you hid to elect, promising that you would strengthen her and now you are going to go bankrupt because they will go bankrupt now, not the vulnerable, these will be the young people. We therefore commit ourselves regardless of the result of today's vote, not to let this great injustice continue. It is a disgrace in the midst of a pandemic, while in other European countries bankruptcy and liquidation are suspended, here the Memorandum of Understanding is being implemented without a memorandum. We are committed to the Greek people, the first law to be abolished as soon as we return to the governance of the country will be that. The first thing we do the second time will be to get the keys to the economy from the parasitic capital and those who today control the economy, bankers and funds! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With a systemic bank under public management, taking advantage of the development bank, providing liquidity to the real economy and not to the elite, protecting the people's homes and a housing policy that will prioritise every citizen's right to the roof as - be careful! - human right, with expansion and expansion of the housing allowance, which we have introduced, in vulnerable households and in young people, with debt cuts, not to the shipowners and the casino big business owners, but to the vulnerable and small and medium-sized enterprises, as we have already done for the debts in the insurance funds. Why - listen to it! - I know, you don't like what I'm saying. I saw that once I talked about the second time you got up, you got excited. Okay, I get it. You are the absolute guarantee that the second time will come, you and your policy, your social policy, your social analgesia. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You know, the second time for you and us in particular, but for the people, it will be quite different.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u363	The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagiouras, will now be called at Step. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, all you have not told us is with a law and an article. But sooner or later, I'll get back to seriousness, and I'll put the delusion aside. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, during my first place yesterday I was able to respond - in detail, I believe - to the motion of censure by Mr Tsipras and his party's parliamentary group against my face. I have demonstrated with evidence that the motion of censure is invalid, unsuccessful and hypocritical. This proves once again, Mr Tsipras, that you have a lack of responsibility. It turns out that you are seeking to speculate politically on the concerns of the citizens, to cover your internal problems as a result of your strategic deadlocks. Respond constantly to witch hunting. But citizens don't listen to you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras claims in the motion of censure that I recommend and implement policies that have brought down the recession in our country. Initially, Mr Tsipras, I would remind you that you have received the country with a positive rate of economic growth from a government with New Democracy, and you restored the economy to the recession in 2015 and 2016. I thought you'd remember that. So when you question me about such policies that you have implemented, you may be distrusting yourself, Mr. Varoufakis and Mr. Tsakalotou. This was evident from Mr Varoufakis' speech, because he dedicated most of his speech as his apology to the policy that followed as Minister at the time, in the first half of 2015. But let's get back to today. First of all, the economy had not entered a recession before the outbreak of the health crisis. As I proved the day before - and the evidence is here and I will submit it back to the Minutes - the economy in 2019 has been increasing since 2018. In fact, this performance was better than the average performance of the eurozone economies for the first time since 2009, which was again government in New Democracy, in a subordinate European environment due to the systemic economic crisis at the time. If we want to see when the Greek economy ran at higher growth rates than the Europeans, we need to look back at 2007 with a New Democracy government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u365	Was it sustainable, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u366	The good picture is confirmed by reality itself before the health crisis erupts. I wonder how you say that we returned to the recession and everything was going so badly, when the economic climate index, which is market psychology, reached the highest point in the past twenty years. So, society didn't understand any of what you're saying? Obviously. That's the truth. The economic climate index, therefore, has been at the highest level over the past twenty years. The consumer confidence of households - another table - at the highest point in the past twenty years. Unemployment - another table - declined. The rating houses were upgrading the country. The loan cost of the country was established before the programmes, which you say are argumenting, by the European Central Bank in half the SYRIZA period. Bank deposits increased. Red loans to banks' portfolios decreased. The country's investment attractiveness had been stimulated. Its credibility had been strengthened and the economy had gained growth potential. All these paintings I'm tabling in the Minutes. But also within the health crisis, we have designed and taken a coherent, dynamic and effective package of measures that will exceed EUR 24 billion, extending a wide-ranging safety and security net to households and businesses. And because I hear various figures here, I am tabling these EUR 24 billion in the Minutes. What is the footprint of this policy in the health crisis? Because somehow we have to evaluate them. A few months ago the European Commission and other institutions - and you celebrated in this Chamber - thought that Greece would present the deepest recession in Europe in 2020. Today they reviewed their estimates for Greece, they say of a milder recession and for the whole of Europe a deeper recession. I put this in the Minutes too. This is the best proof that we have taken the right measures methodically and in time to limit as far as possible the adverse effects of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, while the motion of censure rests on me - and I am very grateful, as I have shown - on economic policy, it does not contain anything very interesting and makes me a surprise. This proposal you have tabled does not have the slightest mention of protecting first home and auctioning. Really, why doesn't your text have anything for first residence? Lucky? I don't think so. I put it in the Minutes, although it's a public document. It's no accident. And that, because you, Mr. Tsipras, and you, Mr. Tsakalotos, legislationd in May 2017 for the first time in Greece the electronic auctions. You, Mr. Tsipras, and you, Mr. Tsakaloto, have proceeded since November 2017 in a year and a half in twenty-five thousand, seventy-two auctions. You, Mr Tsipras, and you, Mr Tsakaloto, were praised - and I gave it to the Minutes - by the institutions because you have achieved and exceeded the targets for the implementation of the auctions. And you, Mr Tsipras, or indeed not you, Mr Tsakalotos argued that electronic auctions are important, not only to have good banks but also for development and social reasons. And you, Mr. Tsipras, as they have confirmed all the parties of the Opposition in their positions, abolished in 2019 horizontal protection of the first residence. I'm filing it in the Minutes. I will also table something else, however, not exactly in the Minutes because it is one of the Minutes. He said Mr. Tsipras that we are telling the candy, that we are all saying that SYRIZA abolished horizontal protection of the first home, so there is a line here. I will put forward not in the Minutes - but I would like Mr Tsipras to be given - the twenty-five speeches of the Members of the other parties in the opposition, which all twenty-fifths said that you were horizontally abolishing the protection of first residence. Please give your hands. It's from the Minutes. Twenty-five speeches of MPs from the other opposition parties. All twenty-five supported electronic auctions. All twenty - five claimed that you abolished first home protection. All twenty-five argued that you committed a peculiar offence to prevent seizures and auctions. Therefore, in conclusion, you, Mr Tsipras, have been registered as the Prime Minister of Taxes, Electronic Auctions and the horizontal abolition of the protection of first residence. I think that once again the motion of censure should be tabled against Mr Tsakalotou who signed all this. But today, ladies and gentlemen, I will prove one more thing to you. I will prove to you that the motion of distrust against my face is rough and pre-formative and opportunistic. Let us see what happened Thursday in Parliament within a few hours of discussing the draft law. I have to admit that I am thirteen years of MP, but that I have never lived before. The debate begins with an objection of unconstitutionalism by two parties, the Greek Solution and the Mera25. SYRIZA had no objection of unconstitutionality. In the course of the debate, however, SYRIZA's rapporteur, a law-approved rapporteur, supported the objection of unconstitutionality. He dragged behind the Mera25. Nice things aren't over here. Then in their speech both the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA did not request the withdrawal of the bill, and SYRIZA applied for a roll-call vote - hold it - for sixteen articles of the bill from the seventeen and not in the first place. The other two parties had tabled a statement in principle. Sixteen of the seventeen articles and not the beginning of a roll-call vote - I put it in the Minutes - with the signature of the SYRIZA rapporteur who made three time-conversions in two hours. The rapporteur did not object to anti-constitutionalism, he did not request the withdrawal of the bill, he did not submit a request for a roll-call vote at first. And then Mr. Tsipras comes and what's he doing? Asks for withdrawal of the bill, urging the rapporteur and your party's parliamentary representative. And at the end of your speech, Mr Tsipras, you tabled the motion of censure. In your speech you said "because the government does not withdraw the bill" and in your suggestion that you propose distrust against my person as a whole for the economic policy pursued. Conclusion: chaotic political movements. What's to say first? Tricymia, tactics, opportunism, irresponsibility. I guess all this together. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer several of what Mr Tsipras said before continuing my speech. First of all, I should like to come back to Mrs Ahtsoglou. Mrs Ahtsoglou, earlier - she also dragged Mr Tsipras today and should have seen it - supported it with a document - that is what Mr Tsipras has tabled, and Mrs Ahtsoglou has tabled it, that is to say - that the volume of red loans, i.e. non-performing loans, reached EUR 75 billion in June 2019. That's true. If you haven't understood Mr. Tsakalotos, why Mr. Tsakalotos in a speech here in the House on October 31, 2015, he said: "We will be done with the problem of red loans at the end of 2015". Is it possible to finish this at the end of 2015 and be EUR 75 billion red loans in June 2019? So, if you didn't understand that, it was a huge 'empty' of what Mr. Tsakalotos said. I'll submit it to the Minutes. And finally, how long were the red loans and when did they get to the highest point? Well, Mr Varoufakis did not answer, for his day they went to EUR 107 billion. Watch out here, but what is the most interesting point. He says Mr Tsipras: 'We have managed and reduced red loans by EUR 22 billion in four and a half years'. That painting he filed. He said 22 billion in four and a half years. Do you know what this government should then do here? He should celebrate, because we reduced them by EUR 16.5 billion in a year and a half. I will, however, come back to this. You are therefore aware of what is happening here in Parliament these days. On Thursday, Mr. Tsipras "emptied" Ms. Ahcioglou, on Friday Mrs. Ahtsoglou "empted" Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Tsakalotos has been constantly emptied of Mr. Tsipras. You remember the unforgettable Greek film "The wood came out of heaven", "I took care of Polychronopoulos, who looked after Xanthopopoulou, who spoke with Yediaroglou". You're a nice, happy family. But things are more serious, because they are not done in a cod-proof way, because they are not managed by the economy. And that's the dangerous thing, when the Chief of Finance and Chief of Officer Responsibility say in a codified way that they managed to reduce the loans by 22 billion euros. I told you that we too were 16.5 billion in a year and a half. But is that what we're talking about today? Is that what we're talking about today? It is, indeed, important to reduce red loans so that liquidity can be provided in the real economy. But what we are discussing today is the growth of private debt. The fact that a loan leaves the bank portfolio does not mean that it is deleted. So we don't close our eyes to the problem. Let's go face it. Let's go face up to the problem where you close your eyes. He's leaving the loan from the banks, for example being a securitisation, and he's going to the manager. So the burden goes on to the citizen. And this problem is going to be solved boldly and seriously. Do you know how much the debt is today? It's 234 billion euros. The problem that has arisen has accumulated and increased over the past few years, is now real and serious and we have to deal with it. Did all the parties in this House try to deal with it in the past? The truth is, yes, they tried. With eleven legislative mobs we have tried, all the wings, to deal with the large volume of private debt. However, despite the successive regulatory frameworks built to deal with the problem, this has not been dealt with sufficiently. But why did they fail? Because there was complexity, complexity, overlapping, legislative gaps and weaknesses in the application of the law. Let me give you three examples: Today there are sixty-five thousand cases pending for judgment, with the date of fairness that extends up to the year 2032. In Law 4469/2017 on the extrajudicial mechanism, of the sixty-three thousand four hundred businesses and professionals who entered the platform, only two thousand two thousand two thousand have successfully completed the settlement procedure. And from any protection program for a very small perimeter, and I'll come back, the borrowers did something, SYRIZA, only entered seven thousand people by the end of July. And you will ask me: if you were to see all this, what did you do 13 months? And I answer directly: Firstly, we have improved any temporary protection programme we have found from the previous government. Mr. Tsipras didn't tell the truth, and I have the documents he filed here again. What happened? As we said, the protection of first residence ended horizontally in February 2019. Then came the previous government and says "good to make a shape, which will include some of our compatriots, not many - from what seems to be under ninety thousand - only the reds by the end of 2018, and only with very strict income and assets criteria". And on what date? This appropriation is intended to cover So what Mr Tsipras gave in the Minutes, which is the decision of the Eurogroup of 11 June, which I signed, is the end, after two extensions, of this programme that you committed, to end at the end of 2019. We extended it for another seven months, for in the first six months about a thousand five hundred people had entered the end of seven thousand households. So the first thing we did was to improve that shape that we found. The second thing we did, we encouraged, we pushed, I would say better, the direct arrangements of debtors with banks and debt managers. For example, from the summer of 2019 until the end of May 2020, two hundred and fifty-two thousand, five hundred and twenty-nine loans amounting to EUR 12,3 billion, including those relating to the first residence. Thirdly, because there was no GEOFHYRA programme which grants all housing and business loans for nine months, with mortgage on the first place, all those affected by the coronary, for the first time rewarding the consistent borrowers. And finally, all these months we have worked out a coherent, innovative institutional framework, with the aim of holisticising the high accumulated private debt. The fact that we are legislating today does not mean that the law is being implemented tomorrow. I also heard this: 'What are you going to do at this juncture?' There are auction suspensions, tax liability suspensions, bank suspensions and additional arrangements that we voted on in this draft law, which goes for the next week. I heard "take the homes of the citizens, take their homes, lose their homes". Let me ask you a simple question. Are there debtors who rescue their residence without paying? With the existing shapes, the previous ones actually. The answer is no. To be honest with Greek citizens. In all laws from 2010 until today, protection of first residence is provided because the debtor pays his debt. And let's see how this turned out. In 2010, in Katseli the debtor had to pay 80% of the objective value of the first residence. In 2016, this became 100% of the objective value, in 2018, 100% of the commercial value, and you, SYRIZA, come in 2019 for this small loan perimeter we said - I repeat the small loan perimeter - and what do you say to them? 120% of the trade value. So tell the truth. Mr. Tsipras said that the money is being given within the crisis to very few businesses. I'll give you the statistics. Whoever's in charge of development knows. Up to now, not five companies have been disbursed, but twelve thousand four hundred forty-five companies EUR 1.6 billion through TEMPUS and five thousand four hundred eighteen loans of EUR 2.9 billion through the Guarantee Facility have been disbursed. And, of course, we've also set up the program of returning advance that we know in every county what's going on and what's the size of the operation. And I want to tell you that this money goes to the very small businesses, which you think we are not helping. By the day before yesterday we helped five hundred and twenty-nine thousand eighty-eighty-nine ATMs of EUR 3 billion through the repayable advances. I have heard Mr Tsipras say: 'There is now discharge. What's new with the bill? Why do you do it?" I should therefore like to reply that the exemption comes only after the liquidation of the entire property by the liquidator. This, however, takes many years to achieve it. The exemption shall be granted automatically only after a short period of time following the declaration of bankruptcy and provided that the debtor is not a fraud. I have heard Mr Tsipras say: 'Why are you going to go bankrupt for the first time?'. The Katseli Act was the first law in the country that attempted to deal with insolvency of natural persons and introduced bankruptcy of natural persons, and today in the Community directive, which we incorporate in the draft law, paragraph 21 says: 'The Member States are recommending to start applying the provisions on debt relief and consumer protection as soon as possible'. Why? To delete debts and give a second chance to natural persons. How much clearer can we say? I heard Mr Tsipras say there were no positive comments. I don't repeat it. I said it in my prototype. Why do you liquidate and go bankrupt? I repeat: the purpose is precisely the opposite. It's avoiding bankruptcy. That is why it contains specifically two axes: Preventing by early warning and dealing with the out-of-court settlement mechanism. Since a debtor regulates all of his debts in up to two hundred forty instalments, he saves his entire property. However, if a debtor fails to repay his debts even by favouring regulation in up to twenty years, then in practice he has already gone bankrupt. In this case, the law provides for the discharge of all debts so that it receives a second chance. Therefore, the law aims to enable the debtor to find a definitive, sustainable solution for his or her debts so that they will not be transferred to the next generations, which have so far led to the renunciation of his or her heritage. Let's see what happened to this day. Today if a debtor does not pay his debts, then his creditors are seizing and auctioning. And once they get him the entire property for his first residence, since there's no protection, then the citizen continues to owe him. Therefore, creditors are turning against the incomes of their own and their family, and in addition they cannot acquire new property because their creditors confiscate any new income and assets. So I think I've answered a lot of what Mr. Tsipras said, but I'll come back. Mr. Tsipras, you don't have the field of economy. After all, your "assessments" have proved to be "liabilities" and it goes very much to move our fingers for the economy you have failed in the development goals for four and a half years, you who have made Greece obsolete in Europe, depriving our country of the potential to benefit from the strong growth potential that has been formed within it, you who have brought an unnecessarily new memorandum and a new recapitalisation with many billions of euros of austerity and a great loss of money for the taxpayers, resulting from the inability, the incompetence, the creativity and delusion, you who have imposed new taxes, which have reduced the tax, which you have cut the EAS, which you have imposed or increased health contributions, you have imposed and have not been able to lift the capital restrictions, which you have crushed the middle class. Therefore, Mr. Tsipras, look better in the mirror and there you will find the one you are looking for. However, in addition to what you are recording in the motion of censure, Mr Tsipras in his speech to the House on Thursday, in his friendly method, accused me and the government without documentation. I'm picking up the glove. First, you accused me and accused us of attempting to pass the bill on the mushrooms. The reality is that the process of drafting the bill - carried out by the Special Secretariat of Private Debts with a special secretary from you - lasted for about eight months. Several comments were received during this period by institutions. It's from you. Bilateral meetings were held and comments and suggestions were drawn from stakeholders, scientific associations, chambers, consumer organisations and representatives. I have five pages with specific dates of appointments made: 21/4 "EKPIZO", 23/4 Association of Consumer Protection, 4/5 Comments from the Hellenic Association of Banks, 27/5 Comments from the World Bank, 4/6 Chamber of Crafts, 10/6 Comments from insolvency administrators, following the European Investment Bank, by teleconference with the Hellenic Association of Insolvency Managers, after a meeting with Parliament of Lawyers, after a teleconference with the district of Attica, with mayors, after a meeting with consumer organisations, after a meeting with GSY, after a Chamber of Finance. Is that what you call "fucked"? In addition, the comments of institutions and institutions were taken into account, because, let us not forget, you also committed yourself to bringing this draft law and Mr Tsipras, in his friendly tactics, said another lie. What did he say? He admitted that he had committed himself to bringing in a holistic plan, as he said, to protect the first home. He lied. It had undertaken to take action to unify the laws on insolvency - bankruptcy and debt restructuring, not to protect first homes - what we are doing today - a holistic plan that has all these instruments. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's from you. The public consultation was then held for two weeks, comments were received, improvements were made. It's from you. We tabled the draft law in Parliament last Monday, that is 13 days ago. We started talking about it last Thursday, ten days ago. That's where you said you haven't been able to read it, because it's a very big bill. You requested that it be discussed at an additional meeting. We've accepted it. You asked for a lot of operators to speak. We've accepted it. We have heard the comments from the institutions. We have taken note of most of them. After all, as the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament has shown, there was no problem with the bill. You requested extra time. We gave him up. We have responded in detail, in detail, I personally two and a half hours to the committees and to your concerns. So does it really justify your reasoning that we are legislating on mosquitoes? Mr. Tsipras, you have completely confused the meaning of words. I raise my hands up. I guess you need and you need a dictionary of the modern Greek language. Secondly, you accused me and accused us of acting as supposedly mandated bankers and capitalists. First of all, Mr Tsipras, I have shown you with concrete evidence that the banks have serious objections to aspects of the bill. I said that to the committee. You don't believe me? I submit to the minutes the titles of newspapers that are closer, as you have defined, in your own space. ‘Professionals’: ‘Bank not in the new bankruptcy’, ‘Dense in banks on the extrajudicial mechanism’, ‘Studies to cancel the government bill’. And you're going to tell us that we're legislating at the suggestion of the banks? You did it for four and a half years. But one more thing. On a personal level, Mr Tsipras, the reality is that such political tactics do not allow them by my personal, political and parade principles and values. Thirdly, you accused me and accused us of acting as supposedly mandated offshore economic centres. Apparently, you're judging the odds of yourself. Mr. Tsipras, we're different. I did not go into politics to receive and execute orders and even to the detriment of the weak and the middle social strata. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have origins and references to popular layers, and I would like to serve first of all. Our party has quite a few good examples. Maybe yours too. But I am sorry, but I do not personally regard you as such. Mr. Tsipras, we're different. We differ in the way we practice fiscal policy. You believe in increasing taxes. We believe in reducing taxes and implementing this policy. In the Minutes, in order not to repeat what the Mitsotakis Government has done so far in the direction of reducing taxes. You increased twenty-nine taxes mainly for the middle class. We in a year and a half have reduced in a permanent and non-permanent manner eighteen taxes and regulated tax obligations. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, you believe in waste of money. Here's what Mr. Tsipras told me on 28 September. Mr President, I do not know if I have informed you of this. I was invited by Mr. Tsipras "to waste money to save society". To waste money! I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u367	How cheap this is!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u368	We believe in making better use of public resources, both because we respect taxpayers' money and because this requires the long-term interest of our country. Secondly, we differ, Mr Tsipras, in the role we want for the state. You believe in statism. We do not believe in a state of 'Leviathan'. We want a state of productive, efficient, efficient, quality and law-making, a state that will ensure that the market mechanism works best, that the maximum possible economic efficiency and that the socially fairest distribution of income and wealth produced is achieved. Of course, the market and state mix can vary, depending on the circumstances and needs, such as the present pandemic. But in any case for us it is defined in the intermediate space between the extremes of a minimum and a maximum state. Mr President, I shall end in four minutes. Thirdly, we differ, Mr Tsipras, in the way we understand structural changes. You were committed to implementing them and finally torpedoing them. Result? The downturn in the competitiveness of the economy. We believe them and implement them, with the aim of achieving high and sustainable economic growth, creating new jobs and strengthening social cohesion. Result? Strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. I present in the minutes the comparison of the period 2015-2018 and after 2019. Fourthly, we differ, Mr Tsipras, in how we understand the need for cooperation and consensus between the political forces of the country. You over time - and some people sitting next to you a little earlier, before the systemic economic crisis - deceived and you are also deceiving today and stoned every effort for political co-operation. You fought with every available means for political normality. You called on the citizens to end the opposition then. You considered the refusal of consensus to be a matter of moral order, which its achievement would level everything. You are historically the owner of his position 'not all'. We believe in the need for creative compositions, cooperation and consensus. In 2015 - and I reply to Mr Varoufakis - the high sense of responsibility of this party, the New Democracy, rescued the country that was running dangerously because of your own insurmountable policies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, fifth point, we also differ ideologically. And here I am replying to other Members of this House who have sought, during the debate, improperly to heterose us, to put labels for neoliberalism, for populism, reforming green and pink colored bulwarks. First of all, I should like to respond to Mrs Gennimata, with regard to accession to the first Memorandum, accession is a registered historical event. The interpretation of accession, however, cannot be made with rattles. It is not with attempts to transport the trash to the neighbor’s field at night and unnecessarily. Politics has not helped you with the persistent attempt to grey a neighboring previous period of time. The citizens, in the vast majority of them, have understood developments and given political responsibility. But you, Mr. Tsipras, have no stables. Perform in constant ideological transformations and political cybernosis. You show, depending on the context, as a political convoy. We, the longest party in our country, are constantly serving from our founding texts until today the principles of social and radical liberalism. We are the great liberal, folklore, deep democratic and patriotic party, the party that has consistently and over time responded successfully, protagonists and essentially to historical challenges and missions. Build modern democracy. He incorporated Greece into the European family. It established the country's European position. It has on average increased the country's wealth, at a rate higher than the respective periods of governance of the other parties, improving the standard of living and the well-being of the citizens. She said the big ones and the big ones not, proving that she can serve her homeland and citizens with responsibility. In conclusion, New Democracy has recorded most and most important successes, smaller mistakes and fewer omissions, compared to its political opponents. That is why, although over time it has been dealt with away from false and populism, the citizens with their confidence cumulatively have raised it as the first, as the most powerful political force in the country, as the great stable and timeless pillar of the Greek political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u369	The three-day debate on the motion of censure is closed with the speech by Mr Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u370	Thank you. Let me begin, Mr President, by pointing out the types, but I think that at this juncture it is also of particular value. Mr Tsipras, you have tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance and you have come, you have spoken, you have heard no political leader, you have not even heard the speech of the Minister of Finance, and you are only returning to listen to my speech. Let me tell you that this is contempt for the basic institutional procedures of the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have heard, Mr Tsipras, that you have referred very strongly to the tape of the Members of the New Democracy. I am pleased that you have devoted two thirds of your speech to defending the complaints of the New Democracy, while you were the one who made a motion of censure. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Evidently you felt intense discomfort from what you heard. Therefore, let me start where you started your speech too, and go back to last Thursday, the day you tabled the motion of distrust, because that morning the new provocative NAVTEX had become Turkey's new provocative NAVTEX, which once again placed the Armed Forces of the country on guard. Shortly thereafter the court announced its decision to imprison the neo-nazis of the Golden Dawn, and this afternoon I personally - you already know - I was addressing the citizens for the new measures to protect the coronary against the new outbreak of cases in our country. It was these hours when national vigilance met democratic dignity, both of them crossed the need to mobilise and safeguard the highest good of public health. It was in other words one of these rare circumstances requiring patriotic conflict, political unity and social solidarity. It was a unique opportunity to lift all over the everyday life of our differences, to move together towards a new reality of superior and common goals. However, at the moment you chose to move out of this, to remain indifferent to the national threats, to the health of the Greeks and to the message of the rule of law and, obviously, to the inner-party deadlocks, from the question you are accepting - to return to what you know to do well, to divide and to mislead. You are doing this by enlisting the most powerful parliamentary weapon you have, a motion of distrust which you are making at the most inappropriate time. You made two mistakes together in one move. I don't know who's advising you. What I know is that you have allowed the parliamentary majority of our Members to remind us of our work over the last fifteen months, but also to demonstrate a unique originality, a motion of censure against the current Minister of Finance, eventually turning into a boomerang against his predecessor. There was a man in this Chamber who felt very uncomfortable these three days. It wasn't Mr. Stagiras, but it was Mr. Chakalotos, your Minister, who started electronic auctions with the agreement of the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u371	Vote it then!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u372	I'm opening a parentheses. Mr. Lafazanis reminded you of this and Mr. Lafazanis, whom your own MATs beat when protesting outside the pacifist courtrooms. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, there was neither one - nor one! - Member of the New Democracy who will not remind you that in February 2019 the protection of the first residence was abolished, as foreseen by the Katsel law. I listened very interestingly to your references to Katseli Law. And because I wasn't quite sure, I asked my colleagues to refer to the minutes of that 2010 meeting, to remember exactly what you had done as SYRIZA at that time in Katselis law. Do you remember what you had done, Mr. Tsipras? What have you done? Do You Remember? You had voted against the Katseli law, which you are so enthusiastic about today, when New Democracy, despite its reservations, had voted in favour of. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thank you for giving us the opportunity to return for a moment the size of your hypocrisy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You, who voted against the Katseli Act, are now devoting to Mrs. Gennamas for the real property of the centre-left. Of course, Mr Raguss, who then belonged to other places, is the one who today represents your own party, against the party that came from which he came and supported the choices that you had then voted against. To hear you, Mr Tsipras, today bringing up the decibels, I have come to a broader political conclusion. While all Greeks stand against our difficulties in considering our opponents, SYRIZA insists on considering them as friends. You see as allies the country's problems. You sometimes give me the impression, as if you were being fed by misery, as if you were seeking the stench of the political swamp to protest then hypocrisy against it. I think that the witnesses of this hypocrisy have all been seen throughout the debate in Parliament on the second opportunity bill. Mr Stakoras has said so in very detail, but let me reflect some important conclusions. This bill - correct me, if I am wrong, Minister - was submitted to public consultation on 27 August. The public consultation was completed on 10 September. For 15 days you have made no comment. No comment! You may not have returned from your daily vacation yet. Then there was an extensive debate in the House. The Minister gave one more day, stakeholders heard, many bodies were placed positively for the bill. They did not belong to these bodies, Mr. Tsipras, the banks that have expressed great reservations about this bill and have never been drafted with it. It is the best answer to your argument that we are supposedly legislating on behalf of the banks, but I will come back to the question of banks next. You have not normally tabled any counter-proposals. And you come with a great deal of sloppyness, with a stress on Thursday to table a motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance about this bill at the worst time. On Friday, the editors' Newspaper had a single column on the motion of censure. Why is that? Why is that? Because you know, Mr Tsipras, it is not the channels that do not play you, but when the news is dominated by the coronary and Greek Turkish, do not necessarily expect the media to be involved with your own legislative initiatives. But it is not my job to judge the time to take your government initiatives. You have the right under the Rules to table a motion of censure once a semester. You chose this moment of time. But I have a question. Why have you not tabled a motion of censure against the government as a whole and only confined yourself to the Minister of Finance? Why did you leave me out of the cedar? After all, haven't you condemned us repeatedly to the worst government as political fraudsters? Let me tell you why. Because you are simply shaking to tell the citizens that there is a disharmony between the people's will and parliamentary relations, which is why you do not dare ask for elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you know that at an unprecedented juncture for the country, this government enjoys even greater confidence than the one it had last July when it was elected, because, despite any mistakes that I was first inhabiting and recognizing and correcting, it fights many fronts and wins them, because despite the great difficulties it has promoted bold reforms, while at the same time supporting, as it has done during our pandemic, our weakest fellow citizens. Because my concern, Mr Tsipras, will always be to unite and compose, not to divide and not to divide. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So stop unnecessarily exacerbating political controversy. You have every right to confirm the saying of July Caesar, who said that some believe what they themselves want to believe. But what you are not allowed to do is export your own internal crisis to society, raise false threats and jeopardise national issues - and I will then come to this chapter - just because you have built your political career on risk. Nor can you at this juncture allow people to be poisoned with lame slogans away from their real problems. Because the CIVID vaccine will sooner or later be found, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the disease of populism remains incurable. Against the coronary, medicine will find the medicine, but against your demagogue, I'm afraid science raises hands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to the bill which has caused the motion of censure and which will be debated once again and passed tomorrow, the second opportunity bill, which both Members and the Minister of Finance spoke in detail. I shall confine myself to just a few points that have emerged from the debate so far. I believe, indeed, that this is a bill - cut-off. It is an important reformist intervention that ultimately takes the burden of an endless stagnation in which they are caught in the current framework. The truth is that so far we have had many arrangements to deal with private debt. The truth is, all these arrangements proved ineffective. The Katseli Act had major weaknesses. We know them, too. You knew them. A lot of strategic poor payers were hidden behind the Katseli law arrangements. Of course, while you were in the government, you did not do much to tackle the problem of the growth of private debt. You mentioned, Mr Tsipras, only the issue of banks and the reduction of red loans. Only the problem with private debt is not just about banks. Unfortunately, the large explosion of private debt over your own days was due to late tax and insurance obligations, tax liabilities that went from 71.5 billion in early 2015 to 104 billion in June 2019 and insurance liabilities that went from 13.7 billion in early 2015 to 35.1 billion in mid- 2019. That is the reality you delivered to the Government of New Democracy. And why did that happen, Mr. Tsipras? Because you who spoke today about the middle-class hypocritically were the one who broke it down. You have created this reality of private debt that we now have to deal with, with your over-taxation, with the increase in insurance contributions, with the policy of extermination of the middle-class, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since I'm talking about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, Mrs. Gennamas, in your word, I would ask you to avoid reports of the type that New Democracy intends to eliminate small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, when you know very well that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is 99% of Greek businesses. So please, please, such general and totally unreasonable positions are good to be absent from the political dialogue in this Chamber, if in any way you want to regain the credibility of your party. And since I am talking about what you have said, because I have heard you move on very acute tones, unusual acid tones in relation to what you are used to us, I would like to remind you that you should be very concerned about the fact that seven out of ten fellow citizens who say on the measurements that they are voting on your party have a positive view of the government and of the central political choices. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u373	...SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u374	I will come to SYRIZA after the nationalities because it has an interest in what you have pointed out. The second truth, because we talked about what SYRIZA did or did not do, I think it is absolutely proven by the signature and relevant FEC of Mr. Tsakalotos, that you have abolished the protection framework for the first residence as provided for by the Katseli Act. I'll say it again and I'll do it again. You abolished the protection of first residence in February 2019. And I'm putting it back in the Minutes once more. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Replace this horizontal abolition, as the Minister has told you, with a framework that was extremely restrictive which involved a very small subset of those who could be incorporated into the Katseli Act and which, in fact, and on the basis of the evidence provided by the Minister, proved totally ineffective. We then came with the "GEYRA" programme and offered a chance to protect our fellow citizens, whose loans were not yet red and who were hit by the coronary, so that we can make a central choice of our draft law on preventing the creation of red loans. The bill that we have tabled and which will become the law of the state does not only concern what will happen after private bankruptcy. It is also about what needs to be done before a fellow citizen arrives to deal with this extremely unpleasant development. You spoke in detail about the concept of individual bankruptcy. And I ask you: really, what is happening to this day with someone who owes more than he can pay? He owes the state, owes the insurance funds, owes the banks. I'll tell you there was and there's so far individual bankruptcy in the country. It may not exist with the law, but this individual bankruptcy is essentially eternal. It lasts decades, immobilizes generations whole, carries weights to children and grandchildren. This scourge of our own bill is now over. We are turning the end to a new beginning and we are really giving a chance through this process, debts to the public and to the banks - obviously with a loss of property - but finally this wound for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, who, in the current context, will be troubled for a lifetime and will never, ever be able to make a new start. That's why the second chance turns into a new first page. You referred to comparative bankruptcy laws in other countries. But all the countries that I know have a similar framework. And I must tell you that countries which are particularly competitive also have bankruptcy frameworks, which allow citizens who have a misfortune in their lives - business, commercial or economic - to step back on their feet and start their economic activities again. This is of enormous importance to the Greek society, of enormous importance to the Greek economy. The provision in the bill for the possibility of our citizens buying their first home from our fellow citizens, who are not finally able to keep ownership of it for a transitional period is very important, because the most sensitive issue is escalation and you know that, unfortunately, and we have examples from many European countries and from the United States, which people have been expelled from their homes. This is not the case with the bill. I would like to say this again: it is not possible with this bill, precisely because our fellow citizens are able to lease the house from a public body, which owns it, and the possibility of obtaining it back if they recover financially. We therefore have the courage to move to a horizontal section on the private debt issue, not because our creditors are imposing it on us, but because this is really for the benefit of the Greek society, the workers and those who are now struggling under the burden of a private debt, which, unfortunately, is really unbearable. I do not want to talk much about our overall economic policy, although I would have the opportunity to do so, because by submitting a proposal to the Minister of Finance you are essentially questioning our economic policy as a whole. I will just say that, out of the hundreds of five bills that we have passed, twelve are bills focused on major structural changes. I will say that in the country today, despite the pandemic, despite the great difficulties we have never hidden, there are forty-three strategic investments worth EUR 13.4 billion. It is extremely encouraging that, in the midst of this crisis, business colosses from the technology sector, such as 'MICROSOT', choose to come and invest in our country hundreds of millions of euros and make the country a leading player in the digital transition that the Greek economy needs to make. When a company of the "MICROSOT" range chooses to invest in our homeland, it does so because it feels confident about our country's long-term prospects. For the same reason many foreign investors come to Greece today. That is why there is great interest in our regional ports, which are privatised. That is why, in Greek, substantial private capital has been mobilised, and after a great deal of effort, this important project has now been bureaucratically unlocked and we have been in the very pleasant position of finding ourselves with a proposal on the casino's license, which was five times - I repeat: five times - greater than the minimum price we have asked for. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have been able to implement our government programme despite the pandemic and honour the commitment we made when we were elected in July 2019. I know - I've told you many times - that this consistency is bothering you. But I will not get tired of reminding myself that this government's first political decision was to reduce HISBIA by 22% and abolish it and now on all small islands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have reduced the tax rate for incomes to up to EUR 10 000 from 22% to 9%. We are the ones who reduced taxation on dividends from 10% to 5%. We are the ones who gave the newly-born businesses a number of important tax incentives to encourage youth entrepreneurship. We are the ones who have given the opportunity to overcompensate research and technology expenditure, precisely to support research, innovation and to turn the country and the economy into a genuinely competitive economy, which will not lose the great digital revolution that is currently taking place in the world. And we are the ones who, despite the great difficulties, took the responsibility of supporting society in the midst of the pandemic crisis, extending a wide protection net, which will reach EUR 24 billion at the end of the year, supporting incomes and businesses. I have heard the opposition once again voice the criticism that New Democracy is the elite party and you are the many and the people's party. And I wonder: Are we not this government which has, in the midst of a pandemic, undertaken to cover the cost of payroll in practice of all the private Greek businesses affected by the economic crisis? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Aren't we the ones who came through the programme of the repayable advance and given more than two hundred thousand direct liquidity operations at high speed? It is the companies that, for reasons that we can discuss, unfortunately do not have access to bank lending. Talk to business on your tours and ask a bit about how many businesses have received a repayable deposit. You'll find too many. The repayable advance is the one that succeeded and kept businesses standing in the middle of a pandemic. We are the ones who have used guarantee funds to push, force banks to finance more actively, more aggressively the real economy. If you ask me if I'm satisfied with the banks' response, I'll tell you honestly that they can do more. I'll then come to the banks. We have, however, allowed the banks the possibility that state guarantees can support businesses on bank criteria obviously and do not exhaust their benefit, only to their good customers. And we are the ones who started on 1 October, in the middle of a pandemic, an extremely innovative programme to grant insurance contributions for new jobs created. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have always talked about this, and we have been talking about how we will go from subsidising unemployment to subsidisation. And yes, this government comes and says for 100 thousand new jobs. With several flexible criteria, we are subsidising insurance contributions from employers and workers for six months. We did all this! And we were able to do it, we were able to support the real economy, because this government has credibility, has the ability today to go out and borrow on the international markets at interest rates which we could not even imagine a year ago. You saw how successful the recent exit to the markets for fifteen-year bonds was. We have borrowed a total of EUR 16 billion to support the real economy. So, Mr Tsipras, I'm afraid the pillow is no longer yours. Ours is the pillow, this government has created it, this government is now able to borrow from the markets and support the real economy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You spoke again about the banks and you referred to it, I imagine transferring publications from your friendly newspapers, information on favourable deletions of shipowners' loans from banks. Isn't that right? That's what you said, isn't it? So I ask you this: when did these write-offs take place? When did it happen? In 2016, 2017 and 2018! You don't say that because you're a hypocrite! You're a hypocrite and lie once more! Then they became and were the conclusion of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara, who highlighted these practices! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since you speak, since you have the courage to speak in this Chamber about banks, to invoke the pain, pain and sweat of the Greek people, Mr. Tsipras, in December 2014 the assessment of the participation of the CFS in systemic banks was EUR 11,62 billion! That's what the Greek people deserved in the four systemic banks. In June 2019 this valuation was only EUR 1,42 billion! You have destroyed the banks with your policies, with the third inappropriate recapitalisation, and you are coming today to return to the crime scene and to speak of one of the great dramas of your own governance! Be more careful, then, when you refer to the banks! [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Minister spoke about the performance of the economy in the first nine months of 2020. We never hid that we are confronted, not just us but the whole world, with an unprecedented economic crisis. That is why we have set aside unprecedented tools to support the real economy. I would like to remind you once again that when the crisis started, the assessment was that the Greek economy would be hit harder than all the economies of the Eurozone for the simple reason that we had a particularly high dependence on tourism. So far, these predictions have been disproved. Fortunately! In the first half of 2020, the recession in our country was lower than the European Union average. We're waiting for the results of the third quarter. With certainty, it will not be well because the third quarter is a quarter very dependent on tourism. However, you who, along with Mrs Gennamas, hastened to criticise us for the so-called hasty and careless opening to tourism, should you also note that, in relation to the other countries that are our main competitors, Greece has done much better this year in tourism? And these 4 or 5 billion which will eventually invade the Greek economy from tourism, Mr. Tsipras, and Mrs. Gennimata. We needed them, they needed our islands, Rhodes, Crete, Corfu. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the fact is that we were able to open tourism safely, as it is true that we have absolutely no evidence that opening up to tourism was the reason why we saw a second outbreak in cases. If that were the case, then countries that were completely closed up in tourism, why did they see much more outbreaks of cases than Greece? I therefore believe that when we make our overall balance sheet, we will see that in the tourism sector too we have managed to reduce to the extent that this was possible damage in an extremely difficult year, and to do something more, to build credibility, to strengthen the country's image as a whole. There was no visitor who came to Greece and who was not impressed by the organization of the Greek state at the reception points and by the way the measures of the Greek Government were implemented. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that's a profit for our country, not our resignation, not our government. It will help us next year, when we get through the pandemic, to earn a market share in tourism in all our markets. I would like to say two words on the issue of pandemic, in response to the criticism made above by Mrs Gennamas, that we are supposedly running behind developments, that we have been unprepared and that we have made a mess in the second wave. And I'll respond with some images and I'll show the maps of the first imaging ECDC, the image of the number of cases. Greece together with the Nordic countries are the best countries in the European Union in terms of the number of cases. I'm filing the map in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second map concerns the number of tests. Mrs. Gennamas, look at the little things, they're interesting. Number of tests per 100 000 population: Greece on the European average is together with the best European countries. Several countries are much worse than Greece. The third map is about the index of positiveness, perhaps the most important indicator of all, Mrs. Gennamas. Percentage of positive tests we take: Greece, 3.6%, Green, along with Germany, the Baltic and the Scandinavian countries. All the other European countries are in 'orange'. And perhaps the most important map of all is the mortality map, the 'Case Fatality Rate', as called in the language of epidemiologists. Greece is the best of all countries that are measured in the corresponding index. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned maps, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So these are the data to finally stop this candy and this unfair criticism, not in the government, but in the National Health System, in Civil Protection, in volunteers who support all this complex process, in the tracing children, who I would like to thank personally, because they are doing an extremely difficult job, so that they can locate'solid contacts'. And, unfortunately, the more cases grow, the harder this job becomes. Also, the scientists who helped us develop extremely advanced algorithms and in the entire Committee of Infectiouss, in Sotiris Tsiodra. All of these are blamed, Mrs. Gennamas, when you are critical of dealing with the government's second wave of pandemic. Stay away from me that we've done everything right. We are faced with an unprecedented situation, so dynamic that often obliges us to revise decisions that we have taken some days ago. And we're good. And that's the only way we can react, because the data is dynamic. Fortunately, we now have the possibility as a country to pursue a applied policy, based on complex facts that allow us to take targeted local measures and not horizontal measures, which would be disastrous for the Greek economy. And that's exactly what we're going to do. I have said many times that our main purpose is to avoid a horizontal lockdown. It will have very dramatic consequences for the economy as a whole. But if we are to be able to do this, I must say this again, and I call on all the support for the whole of Anti-Population, because it does not separate us, I believe, from what we have to do, from what we have to do - to stick to the recommendations of the experts. As you know, in the last few days, we have moved on to two additional measures for the hazard areas 3 and 4: the mandatory use of a mask everywhere and the curfew from 12:30 to 5:00. I would also like to say to you that the Greek police, the control mechanisms will be strict, will exhaust, Mr Minister, their rigour for those unconscious entrepreneurs who are insisting, in a spirit of recommendation and legislative arrangements now, that they violate the law and offer a dangerous amusement outside the framework indicated by the experts. There is a need for a collective coexistence. We still have hard months ahead of us. We must say this frankly to the Greek people. But it can be seen at the bottom of the tunnel hope and hope it is no more than one or more vaccines that will not be safe but will be effective. Our country will have access to these vaccines, as will all European countries. And we have already launched the plan for rapid vaccination with the Minister of Health and the Committee on Vaccination, starting with the vulnerable groups, of those who must be vaccinated against COVID. I would also like to say to the National Representation that I am very pleased with the speed of implementing the programme of vaccination against influenza. It is extremely important at this juncture that those who need to be vaccinated or those who want to be vaccinated should do so. We have managed to have more than four million flu vaccines. Already almost 40% of these vaccines have become 15 days earlier than we planned. It must not coincide with a flu-like outbreak with a second exacerbation of COVID. Because if that were the case, yes, indeed, we would have been under pressure from the National Health System. I would also like to say again that we have succeeded very quickly in adding intensive beds to the National Health System. We received five hundred fifty-seven beds. You've hardly added anything, Mr. Tsipras, to the National Health System. You didn't add anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u375	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u376	Nearly nothing has been added. We have given us a National Health System with the lowest number of intensive beds in Europe. That's your deposit!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u377	We received four hundred thirty eight and delivered five hundred seventy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u378	And stop yelling! We know your things and the citizens know your works.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u379	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u380	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u381	Don't interrupt and don't take your mask off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u382	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u383	It's okay, you'll hear it and listen to it as many times as you need, the so-called defenders of the National Health System!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u384	The floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u385	This government will be consistent in its commitment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u386	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Polakis, no one listens to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u388	They hear the ones who have to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u389	You've told us a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u390	That's it. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u391	I understand some people's discomfort with their things. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Are you done with your voices? It will be consistent for the government to have brought the number of intensive beds into the European average over the next six months. And I would like, Mr President, on behalf of the New Democracy, to congratulate the House on the speed with which it has been given its donation. It really is impressive what has happened. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You should all be applauded. It's a donation to the House. It's not our donation. Stop this tiny, see everything through the party prism! We have managed and built - and in this case, both the Ministry of Health and the Building Infrastructure - an exemplary new intensive treatment unit in two months, something unprecedented for our country. And since a lot has been said about staffing, I will recall six thousand eight hundred young nurses and doctors in our hospitals. And a lot of them will simulate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall therefore ask once again for the Step of the National Delegation to coexist and coexist with all citizens in this great battle. Because, as I have said many times, individual responsibility is the other side of social solidarity. We're not only protecting ourselves by wearing a mask. We primarily protect those we love, our parents, our grandparents, who are at risk from someone who is asymptomatic but can simultaneously transmit the virus. I now come, Mr President, to the national issues and to the uprooting of Turkey's provocativeness. I would like to stress that it began to occur shortly before the outbreak of the pandemic, but it grew almost at the same time as its second wave. Its first phase was developed in Evros last spring with the asymmetrical attack by directed, illegal immigrants' invasions, a threat which the government, the police and the Armed Forces resolutely repelled. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Proving what today is absolutely evident, that is, the link between immigration and the pluralists of national sovereignty. Of course, by establishing, in practice, the identification of the Greek borders with the eastern borders of the European Union as a whole. This battle found its continuity in the effective preservation of our national territory and in the very successful management of migration flows. In the first nine months of 2020, arrivals on the Eastern Aegean islands decreased by 73% compared to the beginning of 2019. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Guests on the island are now half the people. Asylum decisions, which have been finalised, have increased by almost 85%, thus shortening the uncertainty of thousands of troubled people, but at the same time strengthening compliance with the rule of law in our country. On the other hand - the wider infringement of Ankara that we all see now - we respond with legality, with the protection of our national rights in every field. And yes - and I am impressed by what you have said - we are responding with active diplomacy. I'm sorry, but have you not understood what the country has done diplomatically in the last six months, Mr. Tsipras? Where do you finally live? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Did you not realize that the country's great success was that it turned a Greek-Turkish difference or Turkish-Cypriot difference into a Euro-Turkish dispute within a short time? Have you not realised that, after a great deal of effort, we now have conclusions setting a clear time limit for Turkey in December, a time limit in which if Turkey continues to show this attitude, sanctions can be launched against Turkey? Haven't you seen the Council's decision? Do you not know that there are so many painful negotiations in the Council that it is enough for a country to block Council conclusions and that this effort to displace the public from European countries is painful and must be done in a very systematic way? Don't you see, Mr. Tsipras, that the United States, which had a constant attitude of neutrality to Greece and Turkey, for the first time, supports Greek law with so much intensity? Have you not found that in the United States there is now a cross-party consensus in Congress and Senate, which perceives Turkey as the rioter of the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean? Has it not come to your attention that Greece has built new alliances with Middle East countries with a strong geopolitical footprint, such as the United Arab Emirates? Do all this look passive to you? Are they all by themselves? Magic? Wasn't it a result of the Greek Government's initiatives? And I would like, in fact, in the context of a debate that we can gladly have in public too, to tell us whether you disagree with these initiatives, if you have anything better, something different. For so far, all I hear from you on foreign policy is that 'I'm sorry, we did not get there, we wanted it, and we did not have time to extend the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, and the Government of the New Democracy should have come to do so'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] "We were not able to sign an exclusive economic zone agreement with Italy and the New Democracy Government had to do so. We were not able to sign a partial demarcation agreement with Egypt and the New Democracy Government had to do so." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What's all this? Aren't they tangible results? Do they not show an active foreign policy, which does what, Mr Tsipras? He's doing what? It takes a general wording of compliance with International Law and turns it into tangible, concrete results. The country today - and it has done this in six months - has a signed demarcation agreement across the geographical area with Italy. Maybe it was the easiest deal to make. It has been difficult, in the negotiations, to agree a partial demarcation agreement with Egypt, which I understand you, too, have actually welcomed, and we did not disagree with this agreement. It also has an agreement at the outset with Albania, to sign a promise that the issue of demarcation of maritime zones between the two countries might be referred to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, but since Greece has extended its territorial waters to twelve miles, so the contested decision of The Hague will be relatively limited. Symbolically, however, this decision is very important, because it shows which country respects international law and uses all tools at its disposal, so that it can defend its laws, its sovereignty and its sovereign rights. I was very surprised by your reference to nationalism and the accusation that nationalism exists basically on the right side, that only you fought in the National Resistance, you designated as leftists. Oh, no! In the National Resistance all the Greek people fought, and at some point this is something that needs to be recognised. It's not a privilege, the National Resistance, the Left, and it's an insult to say that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's an insult to even say today, after the National Reconciliation, to return to moments of division. Why? This party didn't have people who fought, sacrificed at the National Resistance. What things are said in this Chamber just to pet your own party audience? It is shameful to say these things! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] I had no intention of making such historical reports if you were not the first to wake up to these wounds. But you spoke about nationalism, and I was wondering when you were talking about nationalism, on those benches, straight as I can see, I remember that Mr Kammenos was sitting there. Wasn't your partner a nationalist? Didn't it bother you when he defined himself as a nationalist at the time? But it was the convenient alliance to stay in power. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since much I have heard of dominance, sovereign rights, I would like to make it clear once again from this Step that the right to extend territorial waters to twelve miles is a unilateral inalienable right of the country, is not disputed, is not placed under a sect. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is the Government of the New Democracy that was the first to exercise it, starting with the Ionian. It is also well known - because I have heard many references - because they have not been extended by any government since 1995 and after that there is casus belli the territorial waters in the Aegean Sea from six to twelve miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u392	I told you about Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u393	I think you know that well, don't you? I do not imagine that you are introducing this without meaning that the country does not at all have that right. You also know, because you have been Prime Minister, that it is the country's duty to defend its sovereignty. The country's domination extends to the sea at six miles and into the airspace at ten, hence every violation of the national airspace is intercepted. You also know very well that on your own days there were also a few NAVTEXs in Turkey with real fire, which took place between six and twelve miles, as there were corresponding Greek NAVTEX which took place in a similar zone. You are aware of all this because you have been Prime Minister. So be a little more careful when you adopt a logic, which refers to me more about the translations that you may have taken from the PASOK area, with very simplified arguments about what the country should not do and what the country should not do. The country defends its sovereignty, has Armed Forces that are fully prepared, and has proved in the field, whenever and as necessary, its deterrent power. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Can I tell you something, Mr. Tsipras? Yes, we made the decision, our government made the decision to launch a bold but meticulous, at the same time, within the resilience of the Greek economy, an armament programme for the next decade. We have taken the decision, because this opportunity has also emerged bilaterally with France. I say this because I have heard Mr Velopoulos mention our relations with France and that there is a problem. We are going to replace the first batch of 'Miraz 2000' with a state-of-the-art fate of eighteen new 'Rafa' aircraft. That's our decision. We are moving on to a loose end which comes from the past and which will have to agree to us in this Chamber. And this is no more than the acquisition of four new multi-played wells combined with the upgrading of four MEO wells. I have asked the Minister for Defense and the proposal from the Ministry of National Defence will come to the armaments committee on what choice should finally be made on this issue, because it is a crucial parameter for our navy. We were the ones who signed the Follow On Support contract for the 'Miraz'. Because we had reached the point where we had low availability aircraft and no one had made sure that this agreement was signed. We are the ones who proceed to sign the contracts for heavy torpedoes for our state-of-the-art submarines. Another loose end that we inherited from the past! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So do not question either the deterrent possibility of the Armed Forces or the will of this government to strengthen the Armed Forces, without entering any armaments race with the neighbouring country, but in such a way that we can send a clear message to all who may be in charge of sovereignty and sovereign rights. And let me say one last thing. Yes, we have made the decision to proceed with recruitment to the Armed Forces, and in particular fifteen thousand executives within the next five years. We need to strengthen the human resources of the Armed Forces. He needs new skills. The Armed Forces today are not what it was five, ten or fifteen years ago. Technology has jumped. And the skills that executives may have today may not be what they need in five or ten years. And we need these recruitments. And I hope and hope they will be supported by all the parties of the National Representation. We are also moving on to the reform of military service. The relevant announcements will soon be made. I'm waiting for the final proposals from the Ministry of National Defence. Because military service must also offer Greeks who serve the country a series of basic skills, which will be useful the next day when they continue their lives and their professional careers. I am also looking forward to the proposals from the Ministry of National Defence. And I hope at least, and I hope that we can agree on these basics. I spoke a little more than I was thinking, Mr President, but let me close where I started. The motion of censure as tabled by Mr Tsipras and the Qualified Opposition, I believe that it has given the Government an opportunity to speak as a whole about its work. Obviously this proposal will also be voted against. Obviously the government of parliament will come out of this process intensified. Obviously all the ministers and I, first of all, support the Minister for Finance, Mr Stakoura, in the difficult effort he has made. And I want to thank him for the excellent work he's done. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But I must tell you that the impression you gave me once more is that you are out of place, out of time and out of the question. Today's proposal will be voted down because it attempts with lies to blur reality and to mock citizens. And why - and I will close with that, Mr President - her inspirings have not heard the complaint made by Aristophanes against the demagogue Clana in the Horses twenty-five centuries ago. Listen, it's interesting. Words that could be addressed to Mr. Tsipras today. And I read: "As you know, with eel fishermen, they don't catch anything when the lake is quiet. But if the mud is flicked and they're doing everything above, then they're getting caught. So you learned to win, only if the city is upset." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u395	No, there's no personal to God. Mrs. Gennamata, we have now made a record of time to discuss a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I have fully respected the time and it is not possible to give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u397	There's no staff. Staff shall be judged by the Bureau. Let me exercise this responsibility with all kinds of good faith. The Chiefs spoke unobstructedly. So let me judge that there is no staff. There was political dialogue, political arguments, but not personal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, presented by the Chief of Staff and President of the Radical Left coalition Group - Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and eighty-five Members of the Group of Parliament pursuant to Rule 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House has been concluded. A brief account of the debate: The first day, ladies and gentlemen, lasted seven hours and fifty minutes, the second day of 14 hours and twenty-five minutes. Overall, today, we spent thirty-five hours. It is the most time that has ever been put into a motion of censure, whether against a minister or against a government. A Member of Parliament spoke for a hundred and forty. They spoke twenty-four Ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys, a former President of Parliament, Ms. Papayas, and a former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis. And six parliamentary representatives spoke. Only twice in the past have proposals been made against Ministers. They usually get conceived against governments. These two - to have comparative data - are much earlier, in 1999 one and the other. In the first, we met nineteen hours and had forty-six speakers. In the second, we met eighteen hours and had fifty three speakers. So the figures themselves and the comparative data show that despite the limitations that exist and must exist, the debate was inappropriate, extensive and unparalleled. It will be followed by a roll-call vote to be taken with the electronic system, in accordance with the provisions of Rules 142(4) and 5 in conjunction with the provisions of Rules 141(3) and 72A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament as they apply. Responding to the motion of censure responds to 'HAI'. Non-acceptable responders shall reply ‘NO’. Refusing to vote will answer 'PANIS'. The decision, known as it is, is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. 150+1 as laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. Now, given that the maximum number of Members present, rather at the same time, is up to 60 Members, I inform you that, as we decided at the meeting on 23 October, the parliamentary groups have already sent lists of Members who will vote in a natural presence with the electronic system. It is thirty-two of the New Democracy, seventeen by SYRIZA, four by the Change Movement, three by the Communist Party and two by the Greek Parliamentary Group. From Merra 25, they've left. They won't vote. Other fellow Members who cannot participate in a natural presence will vote by letters, which will be sent to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure as is the case with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 24 September 2020. The letters will be taken into account in the calculation, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes. We are therefore entering the electronic roll-call vote. Your screen shows a vote with the motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance and next to the words "NAI", "THEI", "ARTI". Make sure you vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from fellow Members from the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, which state their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u399	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 291 Members voted. In favour of the motion of censure, i.e. 'NAH', 133 Members voted. On the motion of censure, 158 Members voted against. No one voted. Therefore, the motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, submitted by the Chief of Official Representation and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and eighty-five Members of the Parliamentary Group, according to articles 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, is rejected. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u402	The House has given the mandate requested. I have the honour to communicate to the House on Monday 26 October 2020. A. FURTHER QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The Question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Rallia Christidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Insufficient preparation of the Ministry of Education and delay in the start of distance courses for students belonging to vulnerable groups". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 81/19-10-2020 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Restoration of transparency in asylum statistics'. 3. The Question No 73/19-10-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The registration of clubs in the Registry of Sports Unions of the General Secretariat of Sports (G.G.A.(')'. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Education and Religion, entitled "The fight for the right of children with special needs in learning". B. MAIN QUESTIONS Second Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. Mr Athanasios (Nashus) Athanasios to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'No reply from the Ministry of Health to the strengthening of the COVID -19 health centres and health centres (C.E.) of the eastern Attica'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "In turmoil and reflection the educational community and parents with the conditions of operation of primary and secondary education in Preveza". 3. The question asked by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Without a government plan for primary health care (PVO), using all public structures, including local health units (TOMY)'. At this point I would like to point out that, due to the long sittings of the last three days, the submission of the topical and urgent questions tomorrow, Monday 26 October, will take place by 12 noon and not by 10 noon, as usual. That is what is being done to facilitate the parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-25-S1-commons.u403	With the consent of the House at 22.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Monday, October 26, 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work in accordance with the agenda distributed. THE PRESIDENT
