ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. Reports completed. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour to inform the House of the Topical and urgent debate on Friday 5 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 748/29-5-2020, by MP B1'North Athens Sector of New Democracy, Dimitrios Kourides, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Inefficient support for 'problems' under Regulation No 615/2014 (OJ L 187/26-6/2014), of operations'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "State aid for AEGEAN" without guarantees for the Greek State". 3. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Government Day for workers who are in long-term employment without parallel employment'. 4. The Question No 757/1-6-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The definition of examination centres away from the place of residence of the region's candidates". 5. The Question No 754/1-6-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "Direct removal of an antenna of mobile telephony at the border of municipalities of Peristeri and Ilia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 749/29-5-2020 by Mr Christos Boukos, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Measures to support trade without financial costs'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Supporting television stations and media in the region". 3. The question by No 758/1-6-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The conditions for the implementation of the two-year compulsory school in kindergartens." 4. The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakka to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Taking up problems in the conducting and completing of the apprenticeship of Professional Lyons (EPAI)". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 5792/13-2020, by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “To withdraw the procedure for publishing the amendment to the Environmental Terms Approval Decision (API) of the “TITAN S.” Eureka plant. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the number of questions to be debated today. We will not discuss the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Manosou Voloudakis, with the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "The needs of the lawlessness in Crete". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS So we begin with two questions, which will always be answered today by the Secretary of State for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. First, the third under number 753/1-6-2020 will be discussed at the first cycle of the Member of the Elias Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct need to strengthen the hospitals and health centres of Elias". Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the recent Koroni pandemic I think has highlighted and demonstrated at the same time the effectiveness of the National Health System and the need for a modern public system that will provide quality and free services to all Greek citizens and those resident in the country. I say this because, until first, the approach of your own party, at least as formulated by official government, and not just, lips, were a partial privatisation of the health sector or a mixed model, which in any case impaired a modern and effective ERC. It seems that with this story of the coronary and you have believed that there is this need, but that means an effective recognition. You know very well that we, as a Change Movement, have tabled an amendment and are asking for the inclusion into the heavy and unhealthy work of all the workers in the ESS and an allowance for the entire time of the crisis. You know very well - because I know, Minister, your time-consuming ties with the Elias Prefecture - that the first case, which was dealt with in a health structure in Greece, was in Elias, as you know very well, the shortcomings in the Elias Prefecture of Medical and Nursing Personnel, which obliges continuous movements of personnel from one unit to another, which weakens an overall design of health services and, in any case, is wrong with the services provided to the workers. In the summer season, the population in the county almost doubles, without a similar increase in staff, and recently, despite the fact that it went to auxiliary personnel - nursing and other specialists - we did not have one doctor intake, despite the demands of the hospitals before and after the coronary. At the same time, in the mountain regions there is dystocia in recruitment, and I fear that, in the recent vote on the countryside discharge provision, there will be no more rural doctors in the mountain regions. After that, I would like to ask you two things: How many of the total fifty-four vacancies of doctors in the hospitals of Elias do you intend to open directly, if and if you want to strengthen the public health system and if you intend to renew the contracts of auxiliary staff, who have actually given a touching battle during the pandemic period, as well as the staff serving through the OAED in the hospitals and health centres of Elias? I think that you, too, recognize the support, all the time before, to provide health services. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kathrina, at the beginning of your question I thought you were speaking to a Member of the Staff Regulations, because you again referred to the nature of the health system, which we have made very clear many times in this House that this government supports the public health system. We have never talked about privatizations, about privatization of the health system, and clearly, we are proving this every day and even more during the Koroni virus period. You referred to the first case of the coronary, which appeared in the region of Elijah. In fact, we have moved directly back to Elijah and Achaea at the time, so that we can limit the spread of the virus and, of course, then to the rest of the country, and the results are what we are seeing today, the very positive ones. The fact is that the need to strengthen human resources in the National Health System, in hospitals, in health centres, in all structures of the National Health System is imperative. In the last three months, because of a coronary, we have moved too directly to meet shortcomings and emergencies in the national health system. Recruitment was too many, and with the possibility, given to us by related legislative acts, we paid needs to the hospitals in the country, both in medical and in nursing, paramedical and other personnel. These recruitments have given effect to the health system, they have supported health structures and we have had the results that we are seeing today in dealing with the pandemic. Beyond the positions of ancillary staff - because this is a temporary solution and we certainly want permanent solutions to the National Health System and we have stressed it too many times - that we want to meet the constant and constant needs of the National Health System with permanent recruitment - we have a plan, which we have also mentioned many times, which has to do with the permanentisation, as has been mentioned by the Prime Minister, of nursing staff, who are working as subsidiary staff in hospitals, with the support of permanent recruitment, both to medical staff and other staff, and, of course, in our design is the gradual transformation of supplementary medical staff, posts, in positions of caretaker B, so that, after crises, these posts become permanent in the RIS and that we have this staff available to us. In addition to the implementation of the Nine forty-two doctor posts in different hospitals and three hundred nursing, paramedical and other staff posts through ASA, which proceed, as far as Ilias Law is concerned, I would like to inform you that the thirteen posts of specialists in various disciplines, to the extent of curator II, concern the General Hospital of Elias. For the organic unit of Pyrgos, we have six locations, four locations for Amaliada and three decentralized organic unit of Krestenos. We're always talking about permanent positions. Our recruitment planning, both subsidiary and permanent staff, is always evolving with regard to the needs arising and, of course, to the existing vacancies in the agencies. We currently have, through legislative acts, forty-five other auxiliary staff in the Tower unit and forty people, again through the act of legislative content, at the hospital in Amalada. With regard to the positions of contractors through the OAED programme, I have also answered a relatively timely question in this House that our aim is to find the best possible solution to keep these people in the National Health System, because the needs are too many, no more and no more, of course, we want to meet the constant and constant needs of the National Health System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not know if it bothers you that we remind you of basic political and ideological positions of your prolongation, particularly in the aftermath of the period, in relation to the health system. But I am sure you will allow me to remind you that, as a Member of the Change Movement and a former PASOK MEP, I have every right to recall and defend the character of the public national health system, created by PASOK and today, despite the war that has taken place, and then the New Democracy's resignation, it is the only safe haven for citizens who live in the country in difficult times. So I don't know if you see anything else in what you've been defending PASOK over time, and it seems you've already entered as a political point of view. Because if we look back at what was said a few months ago, some people were talking about PPPs, about changing the health system, which is not here. Now let's go to the object. You know very well that requests have also come through a health district from the General Hospital of Elias for a call of thirty permanent medical staff. Therefore, there is a universal request from the bodies of Elijah - self-government, medical clubs - which is signed by the 6th Health Region, to direct 30 permanent medical staff. A similar request exists from the Hospital of Amaliada for five places plus two, which are currently under way. So we're talking about thirty-seven medical staff seats in total. If you say so, you mean that you will immediately support the health system with permanent medical staff, I think you should do so, and in my view, the Elias Law, to prioritise him in the process of judgments and notices. If I understand correctly, you speak of thirteen places, which will be approved for the hospitals of Elias, compared with thirty-seven, which is the total demand. This, however, you know very well that it results in this Ping Pong moving medical personnel. There are clinical director positions that vacate the next period and have been requested immediately to replace them. Of course, there is an objective problem that I do not know if the Ministry's leadership is considering it, that there is no interest in either subsidiary staff or permanent medical staff. So, if we see that there is no interest, the Ministry will have to provide additional incentives, possibly, integrating into another area of hospitals, not only Elias but also other areas facing the same problem, and redeployment of the programme on newspapers. Because it doesn't make sense, Fernapine, in a health center to inspect two pathologists and at the same time in a prefecture hospital to exist, one who on-calls and needs to move from the health center. So the solution is not Ping-Pong moving and the solution, Mr Minister, is not to perform on-call hospitals, because hospitals that do not do on-call are not hospitals. I guess you don't have that in your intention in the next few days. If you have it, it'll be nice to make it clear, so we know where we're heading. Let me give an example and conclude, Mr President. There's a CT scanner donation at the Amalada Hospital, which is currently running. You have been asked for two months to serve it with two radio engineers - technicians and two presenters, so that it can work. It is a request which, I think, directly to satisfy, because, since there is a supply of technology, the state should come and support. So I think you should review your view and give an extra priority to the notices you will approve of the hospitals in the Prefecture of Elias, so that we do not continue to live this unfair treatment and trouble the inhabitants of Elias, going to Patras and Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u8	Here you go, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katrin, this is not the time to make a historical regression to the ESS. The National Health System was established by PASOK. If you want, let's go back to the era of Spiros Doxiadis, who tried to establish a national health system and found reactions from both the opposition and the government itself. Also, do not reopen the debate on PPPs. The PPPs - I keep saying this - have nothing to do with the private character of the health system. They are models of funding, and I think that in your party there are different views on public-private partnerships and you should clear them up. Fortunately, as a party and as a government, we are clear in this area and, if you like, we are very happy to talk about it later. As far as the Amalada Hospital is concerned, these CT specialties have been requested through auxiliary staff. The thirteen positions I mentioned are already in crisis. Of course, I wish we could call all the empty organic positions - or most - but we should also consider the availability of doctors. The issue is not to publish, but to pay these posts and to have medical staff in other specialities, so that these posts, after crises, are paid and there are no problems. The easiest thing would be to publish them. Therefore, there is a design of both permanent recruitment and recruitment of ancillary staff in order to address the emergency needs. In no case do we leave any need uncovered, not only in Elias, but throughout the territory. Since you have also referred to newspapers, I fully agree that a hospital that is not on duty is not a hospital. Of course, nothing changes in this direction as regards on-calls. We will strengthen hospitals and structures and we will make the on-call system even better in order to respond effectively to the needs of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u10	We move on to the first with number 747/29-5-2020 top-circuit question from the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject of ‘Illegal requirements of costs for private radiation treatment centres to cancer patients for radiation treatments’. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think it was the completely substantiated complaints of Cancer and Scientists dealing with the field of oncology in our country, which highlight the fact that private radiotherapies centres, currently making use of and reducing the activity of the ESS - therefore, increased demand for services by EOPY members - are systematically illegal and abused by patients, in addition to the planned compensation by the EEAS. The EMCDDA is quite clearly being destroyed. This is not the type of requirement, they are burdening patients and they are actually leading to an economic exploitation of very vulnerable population groups, such as people with neoplasms. I think it has two sides. One aspect is whether you have done something or are planning to do something to strengthen the control on the part of the EEAS, the HYDRA, or possibly by the National Transparency Authority and the former EEAS of these centres and impose sanctions. The second aspect is whether there is a planning of the Ministry, in order to further develop the radiation treatment services of the National Health System, to meet more needs through this intervention. Today, the proportion of machinery after and the last payment made by the very important donation of Stavros Niarchos Foundation - which added ten new radiation therapies to the ESS - is 64-36, i.e. the ratio. 64% of these machines belong to the public sector and 36% to the private sector. The need, therefore, is to strengthen the public system further. I think that's the message of pandemic. The value of the public health system is now undeniable. So, is there such a design which will limit the speculative behaviour of the private health sector in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you know this very well because you have managed it as a Minister of Health before. Everything that has been true over your days has so far been true. What I wanted to say first is that neither you nor we, of course, are less or more sensitive to problems, which are suffering vulnerable groups in the population and, in particular, the groups of oncological patients. And these issues should be dealt with effectively and responsibly. We have stressed many times from the Step forward that we give priority to dealing with the issues of tumour patients. I will start answering your question from the second part of the question, which is about whether there is planning to further develop and upgrade the services provided to the oncological patients. First of all, to date, we have been imprinting the existing situation with regard to the organisation of radiotherapy departments in public hospitals. We've discussed with all the managers and all the hospitals that have such departments. We have discussed these organisational issues and we have come up with proposals for assistance mainly to staff, medical, nursing and paramedics, in order to strengthen the functioning of these departments, particularly through the full-day operation, so that more incidents can be served in the day. Also, this has to do with seeking solutions for full operation on two shifts, in order to reduce patient waiting for treatment. We have also discussed the creation of new radiotherapies divisions on the ground. We know and know that, although there has been a very large donation from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for linear accelerators in the national health system, these have come to replace old linear accelerators, so that the need to further strengthen the national health system with linear accelerators is increased. In particular, we are planning the operation of radiotherapies departments in Tripoli - there are no sections in the Peloponnese - and in Lamia, as there is still no radiotherapy centre between Larissa and Athens, so that there is at least 100 kilometres of access for citizens to such services. The same applies to Kavala, Rhodes and Crete. We have also amended the ministerial decision on the rates of remuneration for medical, nursing and paramedical staff involved in the full-day operation of the radiotherapy, nuclear medicine and imaging in public hospitals. The relevant Ministerial Decision is under way, resulting in a series of the full-time operation within a specific framework, specifying clearly and clearly defined by the Ministerial Decision the rates of remuneration of doctors, radiological and technicians, increasing the remuneration of other staff, nursing and administrative staff and increasing the revenues of hospitals. We want, above all, to create the conditions for better service to tumor patients by extending operating hours, significantly reducing anticipation. Also, soon the National Register of Neoplasms of Children and Adolescents will be reactivated on new bases. This register will be of a national character. Finally, our country is at the heart of European developments by participating and by making proposals for a European strategy to tackle cancer, an initiative launched by the Commissioner for Health, Mr Kyriakides, last February and finalised within the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u14	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u15	I would like a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u16	Look, it can't be done. You can tell it in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, but I haven't answered the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u18	I'm sorry, but you've been talking for four and a half minutes. Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u19	I'm gonna need more. I can answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u20	Good. Mr. Vandemeulebroucke, I'd like to understand something you said. The great reward was on the session, even though they had signed a contract with EEAY or for the private center doctor? That's what I don't understand. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u21	The President, who knows the subject, is right. In some cases, an additional fee is provided for the doctor. We are not talking about these cases. And there is an additional demand, ranging from around EUR 1,500 for simple radiation therapy to up to EUR 5,000 for stereotactical radiotherapy, the well-known cyberknife. So here, Minister, we have a case of unacceptable economic exploitation of the patient. This is a form of passive privatisation of the health system. This thing is indirect privatisation. Apart from the PPPs, which we will be discussing at another time, we have, therefore, privatization in practice in this way of transferring costs. We have 'out of pocket' payments. This is a structural problem of the health system in our country, obviously, but I think that these practices cannot be accepted and I want to hear that you are really taking control and enforcement measures in these cases of sanctions. Minister, you say you will develop the public health system and implement a strategy. You have not dealt with it - where it closes a year - with the tool for preparing a national strategy on oncological policy, which is the National Institute of Neoplasms, which was set up by the previous government with a serious dialogue with the scientific community, with patient associations, according to the standards of the French National Institute for Cancer. You've done nothing about it. Who are you planning with? This is the tool for producing modern oncology policy. So I think there is a serious deficit in this and you should look at it very carefully. It is institutionalized and the representation of the scientific community of all specialities, which are related to oncology and, of course, the Hellenic Society of Radiotherapy Oncology, which has made these proposals, which I am pleased to hear you intend to implement. I think - I am closing down with this - that the main conclusion from this pandemic case, but also its side effects, is the need to invest in the public health system. What I'm saying is a one-way street. Only by increasing productivity, capacity, the public health system, will we limit the speculative activity of the private sector, which, unfortunately, also in the pandemic has shown that it has that logic in its genes. I am talking about the business-organised private sector. I don't mean free professional doctors or small labs. We have a demand for a double-paying hospital for ICUs, a 100% charge for the patient's diagnostic tests - we have discussed this again - in private laboratories and now extra charges for radiation treatments. Is this the new culture of the Prime Minister, who wants to blunt the national health system with a modern concept or a modern management from the private sector? Is the culture of provoking demand, the transfer of costs to the patient and the exploitation of people's needs? Is that the new concept of a new RU after the pandemic? I therefore think that there is a need for a serious debate in which we will record the new needs, the new resources, which must be in comparison with Europe's average public health expenditure, staffing specifically with nursing staff, and the existence of radiation therapists or other high-tech machinery and the development of the system's laboratory infrastructure. These are the new challenges and new needs arising from the pandemic, i.e. new resources and, of course, a serious reorganisation of the public health system, which will preserve and preserve its public character as an eye daughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u22	Here, Minister, start, because I'll give you more time than the part of your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u23	No, thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief, because Mr. Blonde knows about it. You know that, of course, as you have said. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I would like to point out once again that, first of all, we have these complaints in mind, as they have come to the attention of the Ministry of Health and are being examined. The point, as I said in my prototype, is that we have not changed anything in terms of the framework of operation than was the case during your governance period. So you forsake us for no reason at this time. You didn't manage to give solutions. However, I would like to say that wherever there are complaints, we will, of course, investigate them with audits from the relevant EIAH departments, in particular from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to refer directly to what we are thinking about and what is happening today. As far as sterotactactic radiation surgery is concerned, it is part of a closed hospital and therefore there is no burden on the patient. There is a burden in terms of the doctor's remuneration to certain categories of radiation therapy. You, in your administration, have created a closed budget. In fact, this closed budget was low for radiotherapy at the EUR 21 million, and that is how the amount of clowback was created by providers. These 21 million in 2019, we took them to 25 million, further increasing the closed budget for radiotherapy. Also, a few months ago, VAT from 24% came down to 8%. Therefore, there is a budget space in order to find a solution and we are also looking beyond the budget increase, in order to cover the increased needs, a single waiting list for radiotherapy, both in the public and in the private sectors, through the EEAS platform, so that we know what is happening at the same time in the public and private sectors, because many patients can be registered in different lists in different hospitals, both in public and private clinics. So we will monitor with absolute transparency and, of course, with the effective reference of patients to radiotherapy. That'll give a big breath to the waiting lists. Also, as I told you, we will upgrade existing structures and create new ground-based structures, so that there will be access within walking distance from patients' residence to radiotherapy services. We are ready to enter into negotiations with private providers in order to revise the packages, which are provided. One very important thing is that we are considering the possibility for health centers and hospitals to operate as part of a single daily hospital, that we can do chemo treatments and treatment interventions in tumor patients there, so that patients are not troubled by transferring patients to large provincial hospitals or to urban centres and can be treated at their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u24	Health centers, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u25	It could be done in some cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u26	Good. Now I'm going to do an "extremist" thing. I would ask the Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, who was in time in the Chamber, because Mr Kegeroglu is not here, but Mr Arachovitis is here, so that we do not waste time, go to this question and even though Mr Kegeroglu has not come to us, you will be detached, Minister. We can't hold you any longer. We move on to the debate under number 5703/10-4-2020 on the question of the circle of questions, by SYRIZA MEP Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis, on the subject: "Provocative and splendid increases by ELGA in the invoicing of the insured value of the olive of the Kalamon variety". Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you well know, the single application for support for 2020, as it is made every year by some six hundred thousand farmers and farmers throughout Greece, was launched on 28 February 2020 under the auspices of OPECE. The single declaration of cultivation or rearing of ELGA is made through this procedure, which provides compensation in the event of damage to the farmer, but also to the farmer. This insurance contribution is compulsory in any case. The posting of the 2020 list, despite the fact that on 28 February the process had begun, had not been completed, there was no suspension of the tariff list. When farmers came to present their statements, they noted that, for the cultivation of the olives of the Kalamata variety, which thrives in many regions of our country - in Messinia, in Laconia, in Itolocarna and, of course, in Fthiotida - there is a abolition of the direction of destination of the final product, a single invoicing and a provocative increase in the guaranteed price, which reaches the rate of 58%. Through this single aid application, the producer could choose to prioritise the direction of destination of the final product, namely olive, whether to end up for table, for consumption or for olive oil. By the sorting process, as you well know, the appropriate fruit is intended for table use and the rest ends up in olive oil production. It is unprecedented, as I said before, and this 58% increase is great. Instead of talking today about the measures to support olive growers, in particular those that cultivate the Kalamata variety, which have been indisposed for a very long time, and the price is dung over all the time, we come and talk about increases, for an additional burden. I would like to ask you why your Ministry and ELGA have proceeded with this unprecedented and splendid increase of 58% in the price of the insured price of the olive variety Kalamata and if you intend to do something in the direction of restoring this injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the question you have asked. It concerns a very important sector, the olive production sector in our country. You know that large areas of the country are covered by the olive trees and the fruit of the olive trees is either directed to the production of olive oil or to the production of edible olives, which end up on the consumer's plate and which have very significant penetration on foreign markets. Greece is well known for the good quality of edible olives, which has both on the domestic market and on the markets abroad. Let me tell you two things about how the price list for insurance is drawn up in the ELGA for agricultural products. The list shall be updated each year. We have been using the data for the last five years, which is why we have fluctuations in the value of collateral. We evaluate and monitor the volatility of the sales price of the product. When, therefore, the average sales prices of the products are reduced, the insured value is reduced, and when they are increased, the insured value is increased accordingly. Why is this all happening? For the reason that the producer should be compensated fairly, if he suffers any damage, covered by insurance by the ELGA. What happens with the issue of ELGA we have discussed it too many times. The ELGA is currently governed and operated by a regulation, which counts for many decades. Unfortunately, it is also necessary to update with the previous government there has also been no development, some revision of the ELGA rules of operation. A proportionate study, which we have been hearing for four years, has never even been ordered, with the result that we have received an ELGA, which, in the first place, has a deficit in terms of contributions in respect of compensation, that is, compensation paid by ELGA is far more than the contributions received from farmers, who are also insured than, of course, farmers see either many loss-making causes or have an unfair effect - to say so - in terms of the amount of compensation. As far as the issue of Kalamata olive oil is concerned, I would say that there has been no increase in the value of insured. What do I mean by that? There were insurance classes. There was the insured value for table olive, there was the insured value in case olives were used for olive oil production and there was the mixed insured class, i.e. a piece, a quantity of Kalamata olives used for olive oil production and a portion used for consumption. What have we noticed and what has been observed in recent years? Unfortunately, the statements made by the insured farmers to relate to mixed-use olives were gradually being made more and more. What was the problem and the result? The result was that, in the event of the damage being done, the risk that farmers should not be compensated for by the amount which they should have because, while the olive oil, which they produced, by up to 70% to 90%, was finally being compensated for mixed use of the olive, resulting in compensation being lower and therefore, yes, during the payment of the premium of the premium of about EUR 4 per hectare, but ultimately, when the time of the compensation comes, the compensation is much lower than that which they should have received, thereby having complained and feeling unfair to the unjustified compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u30	Good, thanks. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u31	Minister, I am sorry, but you did not give me an answer why, without the price list having been published, you arbitrarily went to an increase of 58%. Report ELGA deficit. The ELGA is aware that it has cash reserves. If we were to talk about an increase of 1% -2%, I could understand your answer as correct. When we talk about an increase of 58%, I beg your pardon, but that is not an answer. And you did it indirectly, that is to say, abolish the direction - which, as you rightly rightly say - of the destination of the product, if it is for production, for table or for oilification, so we have reached an increase of 58% for everyone. I wonder: For many decades since the ELGA has recognised the use of the variety of Kalamata olives for both uses for tables and for oilification. On the basis of what decision of your Ministry and of ELGA and who have worked on it? You change the pricing policy and you only insure it as tables. I wonder, is that the use of olive oil for oil production is prohibited? Secondly, there are too many varieties of olives, such as the robe, the greens, the canned olives, with the corresponding determinations of the place produced. Why is there no corresponding invoicing and insurance reserved for table use? That's where they're not damaged, isn't it? Why do you, in particular, put these charges on the Kalamon olive, without any consultation, without any publicity? Instead of supporting a sector which - as you rightly said - is exporting, you are well aware that Kalamas olives are an exportable product. Instead of protecting as a daughter of an eye to treat this fruit of the Greek land, you are burdening him and destroying him, how rather in a time period that as well you know, the price is extremely low and unprecedentedly low, but it is also unseen olives for a very long time. I return to my question: why did you impose this 58% and if you are willing to reduce this increase?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u33	To put things in their real dimension, I repeat there was no increase in insured value. In fact, the eligible value for table olive decreased. Why did the insured value decrease? For the last three years, the sales prices of the Kalamata table olives have decreased. You're saying there's been an increase. There has been no increase, the possibility of insurance has been abolished, which has enabled the farmer to declare that its production was intended for mixed use. What's the problem? The problem is that reality is different and you know it very well. 90% of the quantities of Kalamata olives produced, directed for consumption, are table olives and you know it very well. So 90% should be insured by the producer as a table olive, with the insurance contribution from the table olive. For what? So when the time comes to compensate for the danger, which will happen at some point, to have the fair compensation. What was observed through ELGA services? That in recent years, instead of declaring 90% of olives as table olives, to have the corresponding benefit if they suffer the damage, 70% to 90% were declared as olives for mixed use. What was the result? When the risk of farmers coming and complaining - and logically - was the case that they wanted better compensation. So this was not rational - I will say it this way - structured and it was not working properly. Because you asked why ELGA took the decision and who was to blame for it, first of all, to say that all the suggestions have been made during the SYRIZA government. In other words, the suggestions made by the service actors on this matter have been made on the SYRIZA mandate, on the previous administration of ELGA and on the prior leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. That reality. It is also true that the decision of the board of directors to abolish this insurance class was made with the current administration of the ELGA, and that is a truth. To look at today if the cost of insurance for table olive is large or small, of course, to do so. But we must continue to help, support and let something happen, which is not right, which is destroying reality and which ultimately comes and adds costs to the farmer himself, when the time comes for compensation, I think it is not right and we should not go on with it. Because you have another EUR 4 per acre as security, and another to lose many thousands of euros when it comes to compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. The second question under number 759/1-6-2020 will be discussed at the second time by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on "National Defence Plan and Operational Programmes and Contracts with ODA and OSH". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think that Greece, without exception, has recently been following Turkey, which has been through the provocative stage, into that of infraction and the creation of grey zones. We are experiencing the period of aggression and, indeed, its escalation, which seems to be aimed at causing a hot event if not wider confrontation. Challenging, aggressively, of course in violation of any law, it tries and warns that it will carry out research in the eastern Mediterranean, in the Mediterranean, in the South Aegean, in areas that are not entitled to it. Of course, exactly what it predicts is that it makes us certain that its aim is to create a hot event. We certainly support the moves made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are currently evolving, but we want to point out that they are not enough. That is not enough, because there is a lack of the development of a national strategy, namely a national proposal, which will take us out of the stage of simple response to Turkey's provocative and aggressive actions and put us at the stage of the action of our own projects. Our projects are based on international legality, and this national proposal for the demarcation of maritime zones, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should be formulated in principle. At the same time, we come to the point, which is essentially about strengthening the country's deterrent power. All political forces agree on this: rapid strengthening of the country's deterrent power. He needs it because it's a fact. Mr President, I would like some time because of the developments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u36	But you know you lost three quarters on another subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u37	If you'd like, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u38	Keep going, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u39	The Bureau must - as you do - distinguish the cases and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u40	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u41	The rapid strengthening of the country's deterrent power is essential because it is a fact that, also because of the crisis, but mainly because of the inertia shown by the previous government, there are major gaps, there are programmes that are slow and others that are not assigned. We will, of course, discuss these in the Committee on Equipment and I believe that you will respond to our call, that these programmes, which are delaying or lagging behind, should be given priority. In relation to the two companies involved in the defence industry, the Greek Air Industry and the Hellenic Defence Systems, I think, Minister, that there is an anti-corruption here. Both companies, of course, belong to the Greek State, as represented by the Ministry of Finance. But the NSA also belongs to the operational part of the Treasury, while the NCAs to you. The Ministry of Finance has also made a contribution to some debates and debates on how to resolve issues. So, one thing - and that is the first question - is whether the government is in any way thinking, working or discussing to bring the business strategy and operation of these businesses to a single government centre? The second is independent of the first, if you supervising the NSAs are to hold discussions with the administration and workers first of all on the outstanding issues, which are also about the unhealthy work allowance, but also the redundancies of eleven workers for political reasons from the previous government and, of course, on the development of NSAs with the programmes so that they can actually obtain the job they want. The workers, together with the single wage, call for a collective labour contract, which the administration should have the political agreement, in order to proceed to discussions with the workers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u42	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. To a question that was formulated in four and a half minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u44	Okay, that was a question, but in any case start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u45	In any case, Mr Colleague, I thank you for your questions. I will not analyse the introduction of Greek-Turkish, I will simply say that Greece does not sometimes show its teeth. Her teeth showed them the way we reacted to the organised attempt to violate our borders in Evros and in this tone we are dealing with the rest of the issues. We have said very well, in a clear and unequivocal manner, what our red lines are if Turkey's aggressive behaviour is exacerbated by other acts. So I don't have to say anything more about that, and I'm not entirely competent to do it. On the major issue of the defence industry, I will also say here that I am unable to develop an overall position on all these critical and complex issues in the limited time of this process. I shall, however, make an ambitious effort to raise a number of key issues, particularly, as regards basic considerations, the spirit of the defence industry government. You know, you're an old ship, and I'm not yesterday, and I'm always willing. Besides, we're not gonna fight about who called who. I have been offered to the committee to go to a meeting of the Committee on Defence, with the exclusive topic of discussion in the defence industry, given that there are many issues to which the parties' views of course are welcome, so that we too can make our planning. I just want to say that the option for the necessary upgrading of the defence industry is total and when I say overall, I mean, not only the sector controlled by the public, but also the private sector of the defence industry, the Greek defence industry companies, which, if various systems are produced, could have a significant share of participation and such proposals exist at the table, but also benefit from the relevant European defence industry data development programmes. It is therefore the government's strategic choice for the defence industry to stand on its feet. Support, reset to normal operating rates with problems, which inevitably can't say. We've received from the past, but we don't mislead about it. Memorial is a waste of energy and we'd better work to solve them than to try and figure out how they came out. I think that is the mixture, which the defence industry must follow to stand on its feet and, of course, that goes inevitably through investment initiatives. You know, you spoke yesterday with the Minister of Finance, about the competitive process that is taking place for ELVO. We had a two-month delay due to a coronary, but it will continue and end soon, and we are waiting with good indications that something is moving in the shipyard. The truth is, the defensive industry was patient until a precedent. The aim is to stop being weak and not only to be the main pillar of support and support for the Armed Forces of Greece, which, moreover, a country like Greece, with these active and operational Armed Forces, needs to support in-depth infrastructures of an extremist and productive defence industry, could still be changed to a basic lever for the development of the Greek economy. I would exaggerate if I told you that investment initiatives, which are well-founded, are likely to develop in 2020, I feel that they will come through the defence industry more than in other areas. I don't want to say anything else. I hope that soon we will have good news. As far as NSAs are concerned, Mr President, I will say a few words about LCAs and shipyards. NSAs have problems, we've never tasted the situation. The main catalyst following the procedure is the presentation by the company, of course, the operational plan for the years 2000-2024. We're waiting. What are the NSAs doing? They make ammunition mostly at their factory plants. There's know-how, there's staff, there's orders. Who's basically about the orders? They are essentially about the Hellenic Armed Forces. What is the main problem that creates thorn in this whole case about the future of NSAs? The fact that due to the problems the execution of orders is delaying and the Armed Forces are reluctant, so it is almost impossible to attract other orders from abroad, which could be made by a company like NSAs. That's our main problem, and that's what the administration needs to see. We'll try to help. I would say that we have shown some flexibility or understanding of late orders, we have paid payment instalments on which we could have raised a subject because of this delay. We are trying in every way to help. Recently I can tell you that the Navy finally exceeded its objections and reservations due to the situation that I described and assigned to you an order for the construction of some missiles for the training of firearms of the Navy. The main objective, therefore, is to the working group set up by the company's drafting of an operational plan. It will examine the ways of sustainability and the financial resolution of this. With regard to redundancies, and I shall end, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u46	Minister, it can't be done. We have to hand over the Hall. I just make it clear that your dentext will be three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u47	It's the whole defence industry, Mr. President. The sacked strains in the way they were fired will be re-entered. We've announced it. One has already come back after a court ruling he has made and for the others there are pending judicial decisions when this is our expressed will - and the company wants it, because it is experienced officials - they will be re-entered. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u48	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you spoke about patients, and you said that he was a patient, and the HR and the HR to a different extent because of perhaps the health crisis, you used this terminology. If I used the same terminology for the government, I would say that it is still in the findings of cause and problem. Minister, you have forgotten to refer to the resolution plan agreed with the European Commission and it had moved from the government before the SYRIZA and with the relevant Minister, Mrs Gennamas. The NCA resolution plan was indeed abandoned by the next government. Unfortunately, he's on the air. It needs to be updated. We need to see immediately what we're going to do. The first issue is to support the administration and the employees, the company as a whole, to regain credibility to the extent that it has been hit both outwards and in relation to the Hellenic Armed Forces. Because this company really is of enormous importance to the national defence and of course has the other arm involved in its competitiveness and activity at international level. Its object, despite the fact that it concerns conventional, if you like, defence material is sought. It has know-how and we must not lose this technology with pensions without renewing the potential. So we must allow the necessary staffing capacity, the workers, to continue the know-how that is worthy of the company and to help it recover credibility. Therefore, a resolution plan is needed and, of course, an update of the plan. We're close. We talked to the administration. We've been told a lot of things that you need to see immediately. Of course there is ELVO, EAV, the shipyards too. But today we are talking about NSAs, and I would like to point out that we also need legislation on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work that they receive but is on the air. I would also like to point out that eleven fired, one of which was hired, is by primary decisions. It is in the company's interest to proceed with negotiations so that fewer compensation can be paid for these people and more quickly have them at their disposal. It is a national interest to make this negotiation. The company shall not, under any circumstances, be required to wait for the final decision. On the subject of Iraq, we have an annual payment from Iraq of some 5 million commitments to the TEC. He's holding up the Treasury. We have made a proposal as a Change Movement that this money should be a source of funding for defence programs from the Ministry of Defence to the NSAs, that is to say, to go to the NSAs but with a specific project, which will be entrusted on the basis of this funding. So without there being any extra burden on the Ministry of Defence's budget, we will have the implementation of an armament programme. Just stuff. It wants legislation, too. In short, Mr Minister, I would like to say, in conclusion, because we really have an issue that cannot be discussed within the narrow limits of a timely one - on the issue that has to do with the NSA resolution and development plan - that I want your assurance that the government is in the political direction of redefining and developing the NSAs rather than clearing or dismissing them and privatising them, as some people are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u50	Close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u51	I'm closed, Mr. President. And, of course, tell us whether you have specific things in relation to the support of the administration and the company for the resolution of workers' issues and, of course, for the development of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to Mrs Genome's resolution, I have no intention of depreciating it, of course not. However, a resolution plan that comes from 2010 to 2012 certainly needs to be updated in order to have a reference to the situation of the company in the year 2020, where, as you can see, a lot has changed and a lot has changed to the worst after these years. But, from there on, I repeat that the government's intention is to support the NSAs. Of course, there is one issue with the retentions in favour of the State by the Ministry of Finance for revenue not only of the OSH, in this case the Iraqi recovery programme for some order executed, but also of the OSH respectively. You know that there 20% of the receipts are being retained in public, and that has an adverse effect on the company's liquidity. And when there is no liquidity, there is no possibility, as it should be, of running orders, buying spare parts in time, getting into maintenance programs, upgrades, constructions, assemblings, military systems of all kinds. In any case, what I would like to say is that because we are dealing with a production company in the end, such as the NSAs, such as the NSAs, like every element of the defence industry, the main thing is that there should be a working flow, that is to say there should be orders. These orders attract among other things the well-known value of brand name - the "sign of reputation" in Greek - Greek defence industry, EAW, NSAs. They have in the past proved their value to do this kind of business by Greek defence companies, despite the difficult times that came later. Therefore, there are conditions. I think that if there are any small support steps here and there, the situation can change for the better. For example, we intend on our next legislative initiative to bring in a special provision regulating the issue of the tax and insurance information of NSAs, which varies according to the cash situation of the time. We have to get through this once and for all, if we are to move on and these companies can claim and get orders and then be able to carry out them. Same for EAB. The problems - to be very general and not to be long, since time is limited - of these types of companies are two: the main is liquidity and also very basic is staff. They have as a qualification the existence of qualified staff, therefore know-how. At the moment in ODA you know that it is an eighty-eight-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-stage recruitment process in progress. This is happening with problems, with some delays, and I will not deny it, but it is being handled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u54	But you don't solve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u55	And it would be wrong to go outside that the programs are freezing, that the programs are at risk. You don't say that, I'm not saying that you say that, but there's a surrounding atmosphere. One F-16 the original has now entered the ODA facilities. It must be disassembled from there on and the rest of the work will go into a production stream.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u56	He needs a second shift!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u57	However, it is important that technicians should be recruited, not from one programme to another, but that new technicians should be recruited. These are issues that the Ministry of Finance sees in collaboration with us, of course. He sees the pay issue as well. Because in such a high-tech industry, I would say, pay must also be the right ones. I feel - and this is about the Ministry of Finance - that it cannot escape the entry into the single payroll, but at the moment the introduction of a bonus bonus, depending on the work delivered and I think that is a realistic solution. You also know that a few days ago, it has now been legislated so that there is also a transparent institutional way of paying the exceptional allowance for heavy and unhealthy people to the ODA. We can see something like that in NSAs if the company comes with proposals. It's what was cut ten days ago, and it's bringing in some strike mobilisations from the workers. But it came again in the right way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u58	Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u59	What I would like to say is that the government is dealing with a lot more than the governments had before, almost every day, with these problems and soon, and I also hope that the committee will have more good news about the defence industry's prospects. However, I thank you for the suggestions. Some of them really are just to see them right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u60	All right, thank you. The second question under number 746/28-5-2020 on the first cycle of the SYRIZA Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, will not be discussed, despite the presence of Mr Screka's responsible State Secretary since the morning in Parliament, because I was out of the question that he had given an understanding - he says - with the Minister to answer it. Such agreements do not apply to the Bureau unless they tell us that we need to abolish the Department of Parliamentary Control and the Secretariat of the Government. So, under the responsibility of this colleague, the question is not being discussed. We move to the fourth with number 756/1-6-2020 in the first cycle of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Damage due to quartzing and heavy rainfall in Thessaly". Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. The intense weather phenomena that took place in May, last month, and especially between 20-26 May, such as hails, heavy rainfalls, prevailing in the wider area of Thessaly, in particular in Karditsas Prefecture, and more specifically in the villages of the Municipality of Sofadon, Larisa in the villages of the Municipality of Killer and in the villages of the Municipality of Farsalon, in Magnesia, Zagora, Puri, Makryrachi, Anilio, resulted in thousands of acres with trees and other crops in the garden, destroyed. The damage caused is large, and due to the hailfalls, the strong winds, the rapid rainfall, and the flooding effects of rainfall. The crops, such as cotton, tobacco, cereals, corn, fruit trees, vineyards, which have been found at the mercy of weather phenomena, have been struck, resulting in great catastrophes, which in many cases also touch 100% of production. We believe that it is urgently necessary to make a fair registration and, in the immediate future, to proceed with the ELGA in compensation to 100% of the disaster. So, Mr President, the question to the Minister is what action he will take immediately to compensate 100% - I repeat - for the destruction of the farmers affected - producers of the villages of Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would like to thank you for your question. Indeed, it is a very important issue, which concerns the farmers throughout Greece and especially our own region, since you and I are Thessalonians. This issue, of course, concerns climate change and its effects on open crops, which are influenced by the weather phenomena, which seem to come more and more frequently nowadays, as I said, because of the change in the global climate. That is what I have to say that it also affects and tries ELGA as a Agricultural Insurance Agency, since it has now to compensate farmers more often than it does. On the other hand, ELGA is governed and operated by a regulation that has been old, which has been in existence for many decades and definitely needs renewal, modernisation and reassessment, so that ELGA can respond to the injurious causes, which are increasingly growing, and our farmers receive fair compensation when the insurance risk is finally present. Indeed, recently in many regions of Thessaly, there have also been heavy rainfalls, as well as hails, with a stronger phenomenon of quartzosis, which took place on 26 May and has caused considerable damage to crops, such as vet, zeal, cereals, industrial tomato, cotton, fruits and vegetables. Already, I have to tell you that immediately the Ministry gave guidelines. So far ninety reports of damage have been made. In other words, the farmers have notified ELGA that they have suffered damage to bring the staircases of ELGA and to make the on-the-spot check. Ninety-nine damage announcements have been made in Cardiff, Sophades, Larissa, Killer, Farshalla, Zagora. The damage statement procedure is under way. They have 15 days, as you know, to submit a statement of damage. So far we have three hundred submissions. However, despite the fact that the 15-day deadline has not expired, ELGA workshops are already visiting the affected areas and carrying out controls and assessments. Today we are talking about a step of fourteen agricultures, making assessments of the crops in need of a direct assessment, such as vet, zeal and cherry, for example. And immediately after the end of the fortnight the estimates and controls on the other crops, as I said, cereals, vegetables, fruit and vegetables and others, will be followed. I reserve the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u65	Minister, I will start from what you have put from the beginning of your history, what farmers say, that it is an open shop, their fields, their crops. From this development with the latest disasters, which are not the only ones - and in the past, there were every year, and most often they are - they are in front of deadlocks. You understand that. You understand that, as you said, and you do. We know you're from a rural area. They are in front of and at dead ends farmers and, above all, small and medium-sized farmers. Beyond the extreme weather phenomena, the extreme natural phenomena that destroy their crops, they also have to face a policy as a whole, an anti-agricultural policy, both the Government and the European Union. They are affected by the weather phenomena, which have an impact on their income - understandable - even in some cases. The coverage by ELGA is incomplete and unexistent. You know it well. I'm not saying good for those particular or part of them. But last week I was told by Mr. Vorides that the cherries and pears in Tirnavo are not entitled. What will happen, for example, to these farmers? In what has been said, if we add the savage tax that farmers suffer with EVA, the carpets and goes on to say, then it is understood that farmers are reacting, protesting and claiming, at the same time denouncing the anti-agricultural policy of governments and the European Union. And they claim, as far as ELGA is concerned, 100% of the compensation for the damages suffered by their crops, by a procedure, of course, of fair records of damages. At the same time, it is clear from the question that, apart from the issue of compensation, which is the first and fundamental, which is directly related to farmers' incomes, the enormous responsibilities, on the one hand, and, on the other, regional and local authorities, local authorities, municipalities, as well as other relevant bodies, TEI, OEB, etc. are emerged in Thessaly. Because many times in the region of Thessaly we have experienced similar disasters, which some of these disasters are due to the total lack - and you know it very well - in the Trikalon Prefecture, for example, of some substandard works, such as safety works, drainage, anti-hail protection, and it goes on to say. So here we are talking about an overall policy. Of course, the top issue we are asking is the timely, immediate compensation of 100% of the damage suffered by the farmers affected. But, from there on, there is also a need for a number of other political interventions in order, as far as possible, to create those infrastructures that minimise the disasters of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u67	You have rightly raised the general problems facing the country's primary sector. That is why the current government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have set the main task of supporting the agricultural sector, which ensures the food adequacy and safety of our country and not only, since many products are exported to foreign markets, but also contribute to the national economy. That seems more and more. In other words, the need to support the primary sector is seen through the consequences we have suffered because of the pandemic, the importance of the primary sector's contribution to the national economy, the cohesion of the countryside and the income of the Greek households. That is why when we have taken over the governance of this place, the government and the Prime Minister have made a reduction in taxation from 22% to 9% up to 12 000 euros for farmers. We have taken serious actions to combat illegal Greekisations, which have brought about results. Let me remind you that from the previous government of SYRIZA we have received the price of sheep's milk at 75-80 minutes, and today we are talking about 90 minutes in Thessaly. And you know it very well. This has come as a result of some actions taken by the current government, but also the absolute political will to finally suppress and strike the gangrene of illegal Greekism. And this is shown in the farmer's pocket. I would also remind you that in 2015, when we handed over the government to SYRIZA, the price of sheep's milk was 96 minutes. When SYRIZA left, the price of sheep's milk had gone to 80 minutes. He had dropped 17%. That means tens, hundreds of millions of euros missing from farmers. In a year this picture has changed. Again, farmers are now enjoying increased prices of 15%. Of course, that doesn't mean that our work is over. And one last thing, because you referred to the TWGs, the GFCFs, the energy. We proceeded a few weeks ago, after co-operation with PPC, in a very favourable arrangement, to say so, the debts of farmers and TWGs to PPC, with only 15% advance, from 30%, 40% and 100% advance that was in government SYRIZA, since they were non-active consumers. We have therefore reduced the advance to 15%. With 15% advance the farmer can adjust his obligations and start growing and can water his fields. Of course, this is not a permanent solution. It is a short-term way out that we give to water this year. Of course, we're preparing a lot more things. I have talked to you many times about the contribution of renewable energy sources to the reduction, the zeroing of the farmers' energy costs, but also about the improvements that we are planning throughout the country to protect the most valuable resource that is water, but also about helping farmers with lower production costs and protecting the environment. As far as ELGA is concerned, let us say that ELGA has already proceeded, as you know, in a contract notice to assist the work and assessments. Already in Thessaly, based in Larissa, ten geopolitics will be recruited under eight-month contracts. From there on, let me say for 2019 that there were thousands of ninety - six total announcements in the Region of Thessaly. Ten thousand fifty-four damage statements were submitted. EUR 14,704 000 has already been paid to insurance persons, which, unfortunately, correspond to 65% of the compensation due. Let us say that for the whole country for 2019, compensation of EUR 120 million has been paid. If this is estimated to be 65%, we will see that in the end total compensation exceeds EUR 180 million to be paid to Greek farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u68	We continue with the fifth under No 744-25-2020 topical question of the first round of the Eastern Attica of Meratia 25 Mr. Maria Apatzides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Supporting the breeding and trading of snails'. The Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Screkas, will answer. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u69	Minister, we have agonizing appeals from breeders and traders of snails, such as a letter signed by Mr Anastasios Ypsilanti, owner and representative of AGROFARMA. The dramatic problem is that snail farmers export almost all of their produce to countries such as France, Italy and Spain. However, as you know, since mid-February 2020 exports to these countries have been zeroed because of the COVID -19 Koroni epidemic. Unfortunately, no climate reversal is foreseen for this year 2020. The question is what can be done to prevent these people from being destroyed. Four specific measures could be implemented to survive the breeders and traders of snails: First of all, farmers and snails could also be integrated into the enterprises supported by the State. Secondly, there is a direct refund of VAT. It should be noted that for export reasons it is a credit and it has been withheld for years. Thirdly, there should be financial aid for the continuation of business and for the return to exports as from 2021. Fourthly, abolish, for 2020 at least, the advance tax. The advance payment of tax in general, but in particular under the circumstances, is disastrous. Minister, I ask you: do you intend to save this very sensitive farming and snail trade sector so that it can survive in the difficult year 2020 and return to 2021? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say, Mrs Apatzidis, that the Greek economy has indeed been unfavourable because of the horn pandemic that has changed and overturned the data and has led to a marginal point in many economic sectors in the country. This, in part, is happening in the primary sector. The reality is that the agricultural sector has resisted better than any other economic sector at the time of the crisis, and that shows and where the country should go. The country must go to a more productive economy. Greece must produce more. Greek agricultural products have suffered reductions either in demand or in prices, such as in the snail farmers you mention, in farmers, in water farmers and fishermen. There are some branches and the primary sector, some activities, which unfortunately have been damaged, but it is not the total disaster. That is why we are here as Ministry of Rural Development, and that is why as a government, and the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, has distributed, as I said, firstly an amount of EUR 150 million to support the very activities of the primary sector that are being put in place and, of course, we will not let the snail industry remain helpless at this point in time. After all, let us say that we have already taken measures that favour the business environment as a whole, such as the suspension of VAT payments, the recovery of certain debts, the speeding up of various VAT procedures to export businesses, the extension of time limits for the payment of certain debts and instalments, the lending tools such as TIPIX II or the repayable advance. Following our cooperation with the Secretary of State for Development, Mr Tsakir, and at the request of the European Competition Committee and the approval we have received, the primary sector companies can now have access precisely to these loan instruments, which, as I repeat, are TEPIX II, where by 80% of the guarantees are covered by the ESRB's money, thus facilitating a primary sector's businessman to have access precisely to the loan in order to be able to meet the requirements that this period is causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u72	Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor. I would also like to say that I congratulate all my fellow Members on the fact that you are the only ones who almost 100% respect the Rules of Procedure in terms of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, everything you've told us is positive, but it's not enough and you know very well that these people need concrete measures to survive. It is not enough to include the CIS with the affected activities. As we insist, the immediate repayment of VAT, the abolition of the advance payment of tax, the financial aid. Only with them will they survive. What we need to keep in mind in this particular case is that there are the following features that are absolutely catastrophic for breeders and snail merchants: Firstly, the only possible period for the disposal of domestic snails is February to May, that is, the period that has been lost. Secondly, the main international markets are France, Italy and Spain, i.e. just three countries which were extremely affected by the COVID -19. And in this case, these companies are unfortunate. Domestic markets are not enough. Thirdly, the breeders and traders of snails are deprived of a pan-Hellenic coordinating body and that makes them particularly vulnerable to the current crisis. That is why they must benefit from state protection, as the founder of FEREIKOS, Penny Vlachos, notes. Businesses that maintain a contractual crop relationship with producers will absorb production, but they do not know where to make it available. Therefore, there will be an extra burden both on stock management and on snail mortality issues. However, we must also note something concerning Greece's wider position on the international stage, something that must be of particular concern to you. There are competitive producing countries, such as Poland and Ukraine, which are comparatively not affected by the crisis. There is a great risk that these countries will permanently replace Greece as exporting countries. If the Greek companies do not survive, then an area where we had an export success will perish forever. When the crisis is over, we will not be able to come back. It is noted that the annual turnover is between 1.6 and 1.8 billion euros. Business from countries such as Ukraine and Poland are expected to play more aggressively in price levels in the context of the crisis. There is a risk that Greece will be devastated by an area where it has the advantage so far. Critical measures must therefore be taken so that Greece's position on the international shelves is not lost on the international stage. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food has a duty to ensure that there is no international disappearance of Greece from the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u75	As I said, for the New Democracy Government - and I want to believe for all governments - the primary sector is of major importance, it is a key priority. The country's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has demonstrated this with the decisions he has taken so far and with the primary sector's support measures, including the EUR 150 million, firstly, which will be allocated to those activities in the primary sector, which have been taken because of the coronary pandemic. To say, for the breeding of snails, that it is an activity of the primary sector, an activity which in the recent past had been of great interest to a share of producers. We want and we will support this activity, because we believe that it has a competitive advantage for Greece. Of course, we should help to organise these producers. We should give them the right tools. You should be aware that these activities already fall within the support measures for the rural development programme for young farmers, the improvement plans or measure 123A for the processing and marketing of agricultural products, such as, of course, the new common agricultural policy. Because this is a moment - to say this - a good time, a good time, at which we are negotiating and discussing the agricultural policy of the next decade. So there is an opportunity there to put priorities for primary sectors and for actions that we believe are important for supporting the national economy, for supporting producers and, of course, for ensuring rural cohesion. So the breeding of snails, yes, is a priority activity for our ministry. We will support these people who have been financially damaged at the present time because of the pandemic. We want them to remain in their work, we want them to remain in their rearing, to have income, to be able to live their families, to invest in their jobs and to support the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u76	We move on to the third with number 761/1-6-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Pappas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Objection of the majority of enterprises from the liquidity tools of TEPIX II and the repayable advance". Mr Pappas' timely question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Tsipras government left you with a budget pillow and we had some positive news from Europe a few days ago, where two taboos broke, the taboo of common lending, the sharing of debt and the taboo of direct aid. These are positive developments that you need to take advantage of. I would say, however, that these very developments will leave you no excuse, because we are two months after the imposition of administrative measures to close a large part of the economy and our businesses have not seen any support measures. The Ministry of Finance has confessed that out of the 2 billion that would be launched for the repayable advance, only 600 million have been channelled. And, of course, not to talk about the TIPIX II programme. Together we were on TV a few days ago and you told me that only two thousand businesses have access to this programme and your goal is ten thousand businesses. In a total of seven hundred fifty thousand businesses, therefore, fifty thousand businesses are in the repayable advance, and the target is ten thousand to go to TEPIX. I would also like to see you rectify your current statement, that Greek entrepreneurship is made up of zombies and batters business. 87% of the sectors have been classified as affected by a government decision. So all these people will have problems serving their obligations, and they rightly expect there to be support. We have made a very simple proposal, a very simple rule. Be careful, because there have been issues in the returner as well. I know it's not your responsibility, but it's problems that you need to see. Mr President, I will need another minute, and I will also take your point, of course. There are examples of companies with fewer workers who received a repayable advance of EUR 100,000 and EUR 150,000 and businesses that had eighty and a hundred employees and got back the EUR 4 000. So what do we say? On the basis of the employment of EUR 2 000 per worker and not the returnee, where it is a state loan that the company can get and do whatever it wants. Identify too much specific costs. With what goal? With the simple goal of not accumulating debt during the krone. I think you should evaluate them. And I would like you and a commitment to support the request that has been made. We have no response from the Bureau so far. The SYRIZA Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supported the request from GATT for a special meeting of our committee on business access issues in the financial instruments. Time's running out. I think it goes without saying that this request will be met. I would also like to say to you and ask you whether you intend quickly to bring the micro-credits bill and to pre-suppose the Development Bank, which will finally be able to operate countercyclically, because I am very afraid - I am afraid - that the banks are rather pro-cyclical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u79	First of all, Mr President, thank you very much for the question. I also consider it reasonable in the circumstances we are. It also came at a very good juncture, because, as you know, in one hour exactly - we have already announced it since yesterday - it starts on the electronic platform of the Ministry of Development, the Development Bank, at the 'ependyseis', our large section, which is the 7 billion euro guarantee tool. It is good luck, therefore, to ask me a question, Mr President, about the liquidity of Greek businesses one hour before the biggest liquidity tool ever given to businesses in the Greek history begins. Find me, Mr Colleague, at any time since 1830 that the Greek State has guaranteed EUR 7 billion to go exclusively to business. It's the first time. The guarantees are 7 billion. So the Ministry of Development, the Government and the Hellenic Republic have a success today. We are, Mr President, the first country in Europe to put in place a guarantee fund. We moved at an extremely high speed. A tool that other countries - I do not want to name - have announced that it will work on from September and October in Greece is starting early June, because we have gone too quickly. So the government shows in practice that it is interested in getting liquidity to businesses. I'm going to the specific questions now. First of all, Mr President, you referred to the historic shift in Europe, which you and we welcome. It would be an act of bravery on the part of SYRIZA, however, to recognise the personal contribution of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to this turn, because this turn did not take place alone. There was an alliance of nine Prime Ministers - within the nine and the Prime Minister of Greece - who pressed in this direction and led to this decision. In fact, I must tell you that your party has probably caught a little escapism. Because if we count that Mr. Tsipras had set the morning of the previous day to make the announcements again and in the so-called "We are standing II" and to talk about numbers ignoring what would happen within twenty-four hours, he goes to say that you obviously did not understand how great a success he was coming for Greece thanks to the initiatives and the Greek Government. It would be nice to recognise among ourselves the success of a Prime Minister when it is reflected in the lives of many, in the lives of the citizens. Now we're going to the specifics. You told me to revise the statement or condemn the statement - I do not remember the verb you used - of my existing one. There is no such statement as you say. What has been mentioned is something I am sure you as a former Minister are aware of. All the financial instruments that are subject to European legislation such as the guarantee card - it is money from the NSRF that we have used, so they want approval from DIGICOM and follow the rules of the European Commission - they have a mandatory obligation. What's the forced obligation? That companies receiving this type of State aid must be viable. That is the European definition. And the European definition of sustainable businesses has nothing to do with the crisis. Because the time limit we have set to judge is 31 December 2019. So before the COVID, before the time of the current crisis, we go and measure whether the businesses were viable, whether or not they then ceased because of COVID being viable, based on the data I always mean. So let's go and say what? That in order to be lawful and not to come tomorrow the European Court of Justice and the European Commission asking us for this money back by fine, we are following the European directives - and the banks could not leverage money if we did not follow the European directives - and we are putting the term of sustainable businesses in place. That is what the Undersecretary referred to and wrongs him with the report you made against him. Now, for the specific information on the repayable advance and TEPIX II and on the guarantee tool that starts today and I call on businesses to go - and I will say the conditions that are extremely favourable - I will say in my dentistry so that I do not abuse the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u81	Minister, unfortunately the Greek Government has been rather shy to fight for these tools in Europe. I would like to remind you that for these necessary changes in Europe we have been shouting since 2015 and then it has been a time of very great political passions and acute confrontation. And because we had these programming priorities for Europeans, your party was telling us unEuropeans. So this is where the time has come and Europe is taking these steps and we say that it must make it even more brave and deeper. And it goes up - I repeat - the bar for your own performance. You said we were waiting for 'We stay upright' to see what is going to happen with Europe. The programme notified relates to 2021. "We stay upright" is the urgent intervention that has been updated, because for two months you have failed. You're telling us about the Guarantee Fund. Excuse me, are you ruling from 7 July and eight months from now, nothing happened and in two months? And you're bringing it to us as an argument of effectiveness, Minister? So let's go see them now. One out of four businessmen in the catering says he can't open. That's the reality. And we have the announcements from the government. Yes, sir. The banks so far operate on the basis of the credit policy and practice manual. This will not change and I inform you on the basis of information we have that some are in breach of the contract with the Greek State. Because you said that it concerns those who were problematic and viable until 31/12-2019. There are many who have been found to be rejected for a little money, because they have thirty days of delay. I urge you to raise the tons with the banks and take appropriate initiatives. Let's go down. What have the banks done so far? There are specific tools for small and medium-sized enterprises. There were before and there were during the pandemic. The figures: Alpha Bank took 6 billion. Of these only 2 billion have been channelled into the market, of which - listen, listen! - 1.6 billion in their clientele 'fillet'. It's their confession. I'm not telling you anything I read somewhere. The National Bank took 5 billion and 1 billion almost exclusively in their clientele. Watch out for what's going on now. It enters the Greek state, the Greek taxpayer with guarantees and the banks simply make good customers easier. Eurobank took 2.7 billion and gave 600 million to the clientele only. Piraeus took 2 billion and gave 250 million to the clientele. Of a total of almost 16 billion, 3.5 billion have been allocated to the clientele. Numbers and results from the first guarantee tool are disappointing. You didn't mention it again. You told me on TV that it's only two thousand businesses. The 7 billion you mentioned, Minister, is the amount of leverage. For 2 billion you have been given approval, once Portugal has taken 13 billion. You could ask for a lot more. So, here's the major issue, if you have any intention of subsidizing the Development Bank, so that it can channel money to the market outside the formal banking criteria. Because the typical banking criteria are for times of relative normality, designed and designed to discover the strategic badge. At the moment, the whole market has a problem and if we leave the Greek taxpayer's money to be channelled through banks with the criteria of the previous day that banks applied, only to deepen the recession. This will be the result, and here you will have your responsibility too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I listened to you when you were saying that banks should not follow the formal banking criteria, and I imagined the committees of inquiry that you would like to set up in the future to check one, one loans and how they were given with air without bank criteria, as you have done in the past. Because every time you say it, as it suits you. Today you say: 'Do, Georgiades, without bank criteria' and tomorrow with Polakis, you will say to me: 'Why, Georgiadis, did you give me without bank criteria? Go to the Special Court.’ Let's go back to the real world. First of all, I respect all your criticism of the administrations of the banks. I still more respect it because you nominated it. All administrations of the banks are appointed over your days. We didn't appoint anyone. They are the same CEOs chosen by the Tsipras government. So coming here and blaming those you have chosen is an act of generosity, Mr President. I'll take it. You made bad choices. If you've made bad choices in that, I'm committed to revisiting it. And beyond any discussion, I am making it clear to everyone. Indeed, if with this guarantee tool that starts today we measure in a few weeks that some banks do not give the money to businesses, our relationship with them will evolve very badly. I'll make it clear. And I also said here in Parliament that in the contracts that we signed with them we gave the market share of each bank to the loan instrument of 7 billion, depending on the market share that each bank has today, but at 30 days we will measure how much money each bank has given and to that bank that has left behind, that money will be taken away and that will be given to the banks that have gone quickly. So bank administrations and bank middle management and all bank executives will be judged whether they will quickly give the money and of course their bank money and profits will depend on how quickly they will give the money. And that's what we'll be in, Mr. Pappa, relentless. But I have to tell you some corrections. You said why we didn't make the nine-month guarantee we've been ruling. Well, do you not know that all these guarantees that used European funds were made after the change in the regulation because of COVID -19 in Europe? So we're going to get approval from DIGICOM before COVID -19 to get NSRF money on the bailouts? Of course not. So you come and blame me for not doing it nine months ago, and I tell you that from all the countries of the European Union, the first country we are. We're so fast. And instead of saying a 'bravo', you say everything else. Now let's go to the rest of you said. TEPIX II started with a leverage money bill of 1,300,000,000 million and went so well that we've increased it to 2,050,000. How well did it go? Let's count, then. We did TEPIX II and you did TEPIX I. TEPIX I in nine months spent 200 million. TEPIX II in twenty-fifth days disbursed 900 million. Do you want us to put in comparison what we do, what have you done and how much are we pushing the banks and how much are you doing? Again: SYRIZA TEPES, nine months and 200 million. TESH II Mitsotakis, twenty-five days and 900 million. So leave the many appearances here for who's pushing the banks. I'm the Minister of Development, and I'm proud to say it, I've put more fines on the banks and insurance companies than they've put in the past decade. If I count all the fines, I've put more than the previous ten years. So the last person who can be accused of taking them softly and making the wrong eyes, it's me. However, we must apply the law and also be strict where we need to want to violate the law, as you said here at some point. Because the banking criteria, Mr Pappa, - now listen to why they exist - first - are not from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u84	And that's it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u85	There are from SSM, there are from the European supervisor. And why are they? Because the money, Mr. Pappa, that the banks share is our statements. So if the banks scatter them into strategic malpractices, the money that will be lost will not be the CEO of the National Bank or the Alpha Bank or Piraeus or Eurobank, but will be the money of the Greek depositors. That's why there's got to be criteria and be careful where the money goes. I say this because it easily sounds "shared the money" and then we'll all cry together in the new generation of red loans and the new financial crisis that it will bring. I'm closing up with the following. Easy, reasoned and correct, as Moody's wrote in her report ten days ago, "Greece has achieved thanks to the reasoned policy of the Government to convince the markets that despite the great recession in 2020 it will maintain its fiscal stability and will go to great growth in 2021". What we are doing, namely, is giving the largest amount ever to Greek businesses in liquidity in the history of the Greek state and at the same time keeping our fiscal stability, in order to avoid the adventures to which an inappropriate policy would lead us. In what you did not say in 2015 that you were saying and shouting to do what is now done, you know, Mr Papapa, sometimes in life matters the way. You yelled, you show, did you referendum, and what did you get? You got a third memorial. What did we do? We brought arguments to the table, put up credibility, and what did we do? We got $32 billion. The other one, the other one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u86	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, given that we had to do it at 12.00 hours and after a three-hour meeting for the sanitary ventilation and the sanitary preparation of the Chamber, it is better to do so now and not interrupt the flow of the bill. The time is 11.10. A meeting of the bill begins at 11.25 p.m. I would ask the rapporteurs and the parliamentarians or one of the two - Mr Kokkalis is here, very elegant - to be in the Chamber to start in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Responsibility arrangements of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector'. At today's sitting, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed and voted on as one section, as well as the entire bill. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u88	The House has agreed. At the same time, I would like to make this proposal because I see that there are some colleagues who have not spoken in the first place: to precede them immediately after the rapporteurs and the special speakers and then join the list. For equality of yesterday's and today's colleagues, the time will be seven minutes. I would ask you very much to stick to this because otherwise we will not end today. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u89	The House has agreed. The rapporteur, Mr Dionysios Stamenitis, now has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with today's meeting we are completing the debate and the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on the development and modernisation of the agricultural sector. This is a draft law proof of the line that has been followed since the first day by the government, namely the full matching of words and works. This is a bill of consistency, a bill that highlights the most important choice of the New Democracy Government, which is not the implementation of the programme's pre-election commitments on the basis of which we were elected by the Greek people. Chapter 7 and Articles 27, 28 and 29 are the implementation of the basic commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as of Minister Maki Voridis to combat the phenomenon of Hellenism and mimicism. We have said in an election that this story will end and with this draft law a decisive step is being taken in this direction. The institutional framework is stricter both for administrative fines and for criminal proceedings. To date these phenomena have not been punished criminally. We are talking about penalties of up to five years' imprisonment and the fine of up to EUR 300,000, which is adjusted upwards to EUR 600,000 for companies with a turnover of more than EUR 1 million. So if this is not a step towards dealing with Greekism, then what would it be? Also, in the battle against the phenomena of mimicism and illegal Hellenism, Articles 9 and 10 are also involved. Especially with Article 9 at last, the beekeeping sector takes the place it deserves. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the Beekeeping Registry gives substance to this sector because they record their digital beekeepers, we know who they are, how much and what they produce, what needs they have and when they need the support of the state they can be given to them. Note this: this is one of the most important sectors in the primary sector, which is the basis of the food chain, as the Deputy Minister has rightly said in committee - and I repeat it - that bees-free people are without vegetables, fruitless, seedless and fruitless. Furthermore, let us not forget that the Beekeeping Registry is an important weapon against Hellenisation. The provisions of Article 10 of the egg market control are also in the same direction. The integration of enterprises into the single ‘ARTEMIS’ database clears the landscape, settles and houses the egg market, as effective balance control is ensured, traceability and, of course, addressing the unfair practices of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, although the Opposition argues that there are no problems with this draft law, in fact what is described these days is the regulation of a number of issues and the reduction of bureaucratic obstacles. They are regulation that clarifies issues and facilitates procedures, such as the one under Article 2, for earth improvements by transferring all these projects from the Ministry to the municipalities, when necessary. At the same time, the Minister for Rural Development may participate in operating, administrative and maintenance expenditure and the region concerned which supervises that body, which have so far borne the State budget. It cannot be called into question that such a regulation, which amends a 1976 law. Since then, the structure of the state has changed as well as the management of resources. Therefore, we see that problems are solved and orderly. Like, for example, Article 16 concerning the programme for the collection and management of dead animals. What about this matter? It changes the source of funding for the programme, which will be financed by the regions, rather than the Agriculture and Animals Fund through a reward fee. Regions may use these programmes through Union, national and own resources. An important problem, therefore, is being solved, almost embarrassing for the country. We shall now proceed to the arrangements laid down in Articles 5, 6 and 7 for the pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis industry. That is why we have heard a lot of criticism. In this regard, it was necessary to clarify the institutional framework concerning the introduction of propagating material of hemp varieties, as well as Article 6 where clarifications on the conditions for the import or export of plant products or products of first processing are provided. I now come to Article 7. The aim of the Ministry with the proposed provision is to regulate the issues relating to the type of penalties imposed in cases where the crop content of the raw products has been established more than 0,2%. Here we should explain for cases where it is not understood that there were ambiguities and many subjectives in the previous provisions on sanctions. That is why I think you should rethink your position on this matter. Another provision to be mentioned about its value and importance is that of Article 24, which regulates issues relating to the establishment of the Strategic Planning Council. It is foreseen that measures concerning the prevention and treatment of exceptional or unforeseen risks related to the protection of agricultural, livestock and fisheries production, food safety and the protection of public health are provided for by the CRL. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned in the draft law in committee, the position of the New Democracy and the Government is that livestock units are essential. They must produce, develop and operate without problems. For this reason it is also important to extend the extension granted by Article 8 to 31/12-2020 for the obligation to apply to the relevant MRL for the purpose of issuing an authorisation for establishment by farmers wishing to continue operating their livestock establishments operating in or near residential areas. We cannot claim that there is a deficit, that farmers have problems, that forced relocations cost costs, and on the other hand that we should not be flexible in matters such as the settlement of existing facilities. I should like to conclude by stressing quickly that the legislative initiatives under Articles 17 and 18, which regulate issues of the Ministry's supervised bodies, but also Articles 12 and 13, which deal with arable crops regulation, are equally important. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are completing today's debate on the draft bill, you will allow me to address a number of issues which are not subject to the provisions of this law, but which have been mentioned several of our colleagues in counter-population in an attempt to criticise the work of the Ministry of Rural Development and its alleged ineffectiveness. So I wonder whether it is or is not crucial that the Ministry intervenes to resolve the issues of land workers during the koruna period? Immediately and targetedly, a solution was found to one of the major problems arising from the emergence of the health crisis and the forced closure of borders. And who was that? It was finding workers' hands for the harvesting of producers. Is it or is it not for farmers and our fishermen to commit more than EUR 150 million to compensate the producers affected from the consequences of the pandemic? Is the decision on compensation for fishermen, for the first time, for farmers, for flower producers, for fruit and vegetables producers or for other producers having a problem with the pandemic? You're criticising the payment time, because you probably have nothing else to say about it. However, the examination of the data, before the payment of the compensation goes ahead, is to know that it is done for the benefit of the actual producers. In conclusion, I will repeat that the Government of the Ministry's leadership, the New Democracy Party, is well aware that our farmers, our farmers, fishermen, our beekeepers are the basis for the country's development. That is why we are taking a look at the next day of the primary sector. We will support our productions and the people of the earth, as they support the country at the difficult times, keeping it upright. We are creating policies with the support of producers' incomes, rural development and the development of the primary sector as a key pillar of the country's reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you have a choice, either to follow or to stay in the opposition yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u91	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. I would now ask Mr. Kokkalis Vassiliou to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development is being introduced. The truth is that an effort was made in terms of the government to say that the Qualified Opposition despairs or at least wants to deceive the bill. Civic Opposition despairs the distortion of reality. We hear we're making a sterile criticism, making miserable opposition. I am glad to hear - and this is an answer to those who have accused us of sterile criticism - and we were pleased to hear the Minister accept the proposal on fraud in foodstuffs yesterday. It was delighted and pleased to accept that the provisions on food fraud, as it had been put forward, was more urgent. Because there is also a misunderstanding of the consumer, but there is also fraud in food. We wait in writing for the legislative improvement. I deliberately asked yesterday whether fraud would lead to harmful products, so that I would receive the answer from the Minister - and so it is - that there is no need to lead to harmful products. But for certain, it leads to a misunderstanding. Is that correct? And I ask, does the Qualified Opposition ask: why does this provision of illusion not make it more stringent? You corrected, upon suggestion, the most urgent and said that you would put with the three months and the penalty. And you'll do well, even though our proposal is to become strict and the law-enforcement provision. Only the strict criminal provision of two years is not enough, Minister. Civic Opposition therefore does not devaluate the bill, despises the distortion of reality. Regulation 625/2017 makes it clear to protect PDO products. In Article 1(j), please indicate measures for the use, labelling of protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications. We must therefore agree that what you are doing today is an obligation - and you are doing well - which comes directly from a European regulation. We will expect a legislative improvement on our proposal, so that the provisions on fraud in foodstuffs are not more urgent. I come to some of the provisions we disagree with. We're starting with industrial cannabis. You have said so too, but some Members have said so too. What do you want? Tell us what limit you want us to put in industrial cannabis? That's at least naive. Why? Because the tolerance was adopted in 2013. We found it. We've applied it. Some scientists - we do not know - believe that a tolerance has to be imposed on this crop. Political leaders were involved in 2013, later on. So you tell us exactly what you want. In any case, because you sometimes try to obscure the reality, Minister, if there was a government policy on cannabis, I would like to ask why the decisions to process the cannabis industry have not been adopted. Why do you not give and do not allow these products to be produced here and not imported? Why has cultivation been reduced? Let me make a reservation. Colleagues Ministers are photographed - and well they do - and go to the opening of cannabis pharmaceutical firms, investments initiated by the previous government. And you, three years ago, from this point of view, said that the SYRIZA government uncontrolledly regulates the cultivation of hashish. What's the matter with both? It's not bad to have prejudices as a person. It's not bad at all. You said it the other day. Leave what each one says separately. But you happen to be the Minister responsible for policy implementation. I think that these questions from the first sitting have not been answered. If it is a government policy - which is not - why is it not that the adoption of the ministerial decisions necessary for the processing and marketing and generally movement of products of industrial cannabis is not progressed? I come, Mr President, quickly - quickly to recover. You get used to the sense of fear - because you know that fear is the worst feeling - to exploit it. And you said, what do you want? To pay the rest of the taxpayers that money? You said that. Let me ask: How could other taxpayers pay? Do you mean farmers? Did you or did you have something in mind? No, say it. Once the debtors are specific, say here from the Step that there is a chance that the rest of the taxpayers will also be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u93	The taxpayers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u94	They are all taxed, not just farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u95	Tell him how. I'm coming to ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u96	Can we quickly say what you're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u97	I'm coming to ELGA. Minister, I think that because at the first meeting you have used some expressions of the style "to speak levedika and tarta", you must inform the National Representation if it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u98	Do not interrupt the rapporteurs, because we will spend time and we will go back a lot. Mr. Red, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u99	You said yesterday that it is populism to put further damages to the ELGA. You must inform them. At the moment the issue of damage is being raised which may be one of the most serious in the primary sector. You have to inform the National Representation first of all, about the situation in ELGA, secondly, how you intend to move with the change of regulation because different conclusions are drawn here. You say it's populism to ask for more damage. You have been seen and heard by the farmers who are waiting for this, the change in the regulation and not in general and indefinitely 'expect this conclusion'. You have to tell the truth, if not today, what are you going to do in the Committee on Production and Trade? I shall conclude, Mr President, by speaking about farmers. You said to wait for the Daymare. The Championship's gone. I think it is undoubted to say that the damage to farmers and what was rather announced by means of a leak, the EUR 4, is a very little help that farmers are expecting, whether they produce milk or meat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u100	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've spent ten minutes. We won't keep the time like this. It's at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u101	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to make a point. Plan, take advantage. In this bill you had to have the National Register of Community Aid. It is foreseen by Regulation No 13 of 2019, so that if not today, when it is voted, you have 28 million plus ‘de minimis’. You have to do this directly and make a design. I wish I could go out because other products would probably have a problem from September, like cotton. I cannot now prove the causal link between damage and result. Take advantage of all the potential of European programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Red, you have spoken 50% more than your time. It's not fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u103	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u104	The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Panas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are completing the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development on 'Agriculture and Food'. After all, then, from the general remarks of the reality that the agricultural sector is experiencing at the moment, but also the problems that are going on, I will try to explain, by way of article, our intention of voting in the draft law under discussion. First of all, starting with Article 1, the National Committee for Agricultural and Accounting Information, I should like to mention that this is an institution which has existed and aims at the annual sampling of accountancy data on inputs from agricultural holdings in the European Union. The amendments to this Article in relation to the existing scheme are minimal. Article 2 on the improvement of works. We have constantly demonstrated as a Movement of Change the pathogens in the functioning of the Observations and TWGs and the debts of the PPC itself. Therefore, the transfer of these works to the municipalities on a case-by-case basis is a provision in a positive direction that helps TWGs if the process of transfer is naturally supervised by experts, which is provided for in this draft law. Article 3 of the Technical Advisory Committee on Fertilisers seeks, in this respect, to renounce the administrative procedure for assessing new types of fertilisers from urban and industrial waste. We want here to emphasise the importance of protecting the environment and the greening of production for which we have tabled a specific plan and proposals. It is therefore necessary to rationalise the use of this waste through the appropriate institutional framework. With regard to Article 6 on conceptual identification of imports and exports of plant products, export issues of agricultural products, plant products and non-food products, more comprehensive arrangements are needed. However, the activation of the mechanism must be more comprehensive, without implying that this provision is not in a positive direction. For Article 7, for the cultivation of industrial cannabis, we have also been placed in the committee. This is an up-and-coming crop, and producers must be encouraged rather than counter-incentives. The test method must be progressively evolved, the producer must also be given the appropriate means of measurement, otherwise the producer cannot bear sole responsibility for the costs of cultivation and its destruction. Is it not unfair for the producer to bear sole responsibility for the costs of cultivation and its destruction? Is this the occasion for the Ministry to review the control mechanisms? And because it is a growing crop, let the producer not abandon it for the benefit of the imports of hemp products because of a deterrent regulation. Article 8: We have already talked about another prolongation of time in the licensing of livestock establishments. It is a very problematic matter in itself. One thing needs to be cleared up here: the failure to complete the necessary procedures is not the responsibility of farmers. Is the problem not the deadlines, but the procedure for collecting and filing the necessary supporting documents itself? The farmer, in other words, is responsible for the delays of the forests to clear the stables? And that is a problem that needs to be addressed at its root. We have also told the Committee on Production and Trade that the National Beekeeping Registry introduced by this provision is a provision which is very positive. We welcome the fact that a bill by the Ministry of Rural Development finally has a role to play in a beekeeping. The success of this regulation will, of course, be judged by ensuring its implementation and it is important to give the beekeepers an active role in the whole process. Article 11. The participation of farmers in the management plans for pastures is necessary for us. For several years, farmers have been paying the relevant price for drawing up the management plans in the regions, and we must finally stop this charge. Specifically for pastures, the country designated for the first time after the establishment of the Greek state in 2014 on a legal level what is a pasture. It took another six years to incorporate the pasture in the CAP without any problems for farmers in particular. So the environmental management of this very large and important natural resource is now coming to an end. Article 12 is a quite technical article on specific terms which, if someone does not act on this fishing gear, the purse will not understand what it is all about. Furthermore, it is certainly hoped that a bill by the Ministry of Rural Development would generally promote the protection of fish stocks. However, the impact of this additional provision on the fishing pressure on stocks is unclear. Article 14 refers to veterinary medicinal products. We have also told the committee that the use of drugs on the Internet is a sensitive issue that should concern us all. This practice was criminalised by Law 2538/1997 and brought an administrative fine for the perpetrator. However, by replacing Rule 14 in question, this case remains uncovered. Article 16: It is important to draw up a specific framework from this draft law on the cohesion and management of dead animals at the level of the competent authorities. However - and we must point it out once again - we need to develop the right attitude and culture to the producer in order to implement this programme in reality. Article 18 is a request for all geotechnics to change the legislative framework of the Annex. So we see it positively. Article 19. Here we have the article on the recovery of aid from agricultural cooperatives. This is an attempt to restore the legality of 1992. The decisions of the European Union, of course, cannot be overruled. However, it must be ensured that, especially at this point in time, no liquidity is yet available, no healthy cooperatives will collapse. Article 24: Here is the Strategic Planning Council and the delegated provision. We have our reservations, because it is about giving the Minister for Rural Development responsibility. Article 28: We cannot remove the importance of tightening the institutional framework for the identification and punishment of illegal Greekisations. Finally, with the two ministerial amendments you have tabled, we are, in principle, positive with the failure to stop the unemployment benefit for those who provide their work on farms because this gives an even temporary solution to the problem of the lack of workers. However, we draw attention to this issue, as the problem is still with the positions per county and periphery that can be allocated to recruiting land workers and must be increased, as in Halkidiki it seems not enough. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The amendment to extend the term of office of the members of the supervisory boards of agricultural cooperatives we consider it necessary. However, it should be clarified whether it is also about the cooperatives which had planned to hold accounting meetings - not just general meetings - on the subject of amending the cooperative statutes. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is that it is one: the overall change of strategy and the need for immediate financing solutions needed by the country's primary sector to take over its economic position and its potential production. This is the great picture we need to see if we want the agri-food sector to follow, a new path forward through education, new technologies, tools for tackling climate change and environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Pana. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by conveying the anxiety that many farmers have been experiencing these days in areas which have been hit by severe damage and destroyed much of their production, from Elias, Boeotia, Thessaly, Halkidiki, Katerini, Pella to Kavala, Rhodope and elsewhere. Not only the natural disasters but also the lack of infrastructure. The farmers are therefore in despair and in the face of new deadlocks, which come to be added to the already tragic economic situation they are experiencing. The same is true in the olive-growing regions affected by the summer heats of May which caused great damage to the fruits and fruits on the trees, of course, other than flowers. In time, these issues have already been raised. They can't literally breathe. I'm not just saying that in contrast to the slogan that the protesters are shouting about the cold murder of the African-American worker George Floyd by police officers, which is timely. But that could also be called by small and medium-sized farmers. When they pay high insurance contributions, but the compensation is lame and do not get it in time, and of course not for the whole damaged production, then yes, there is a fat problem. You steal 35% of them and give only 65% of the damage they have suffered. You told us yesterday, Minister, that ELGA is a deficit and every year its stocks are reduced. ELGA hasn't gone bankrupt. Farmers pay in advance and keep their contributions from subsidies. The state has not paid its contribution from the state budget for many years. There are quite a lot of protests from farmers, because although ELGA workers are working hard and intensely, they are not enough. Many years have come to be recruited, and the average age of the perpetual ones is over fifty years. The subsistence of ELGA in geotechnical capacity is present, pressing and has consequences. We arrived in June 2020 and are still waiting for farmers to come up with findings of damages a year ago. They're suing them, and they're right. That's why you need immediate lawyers, instead of taking geotechnics. We say this because geotechnicists are being fired at the same time in ELGA and, indeed, in the midst of a pandemic. There is also a bleeding of staff, administrative and geotechnics, when there is a need to recruit and not redundancies. You could, if you wanted, regulate for recruitment, just as you do with the lawyers in Article 15, but you seem to have other privatisation plans of the ELGA that are not new. They are the directions of the European Union and will be disastrous if they are implemented. As far as the other articles are concerned, we shall vote for them. We could do more. But we're having trouble for two reasons. Firstly, many are accompanied by ministerial decisions that will come out in the future and deal with important issues. We do not, however, give you a 'white check'. Secondly, some articles, while in a positive direction, are accompanied by a financial burden for the farmer. For example, in Article 16, it is right that dead animals should be collected and managed in a healthly manner. But that's not why the farmer needs to be taken care of. We shall therefore be expressing ourselves with 'the present'. With regard to Article 8, for example, in relation to staval facilities, we agree that producers should not pay fines because they are not responsible. However, this is not enough. Do not be charged with the cost of issuing licences. To make all this organized by the state, with multiple criteria, so that the farmer can survive and ensure environmental protection. As regards the Beekeeping Registry in Article 9, yes, it is necessary. We hope, however, that you do not put an end to this, since the development of the Beekeeping Register, like the Beekeeping Identity, will be determined by ministerial decisions. But this alone again is not enough, because the biggest problem is fraud. In Kythira, especially beessonsi, there has been no control over many years. The beekeepers themselves are protesting because the movement of fraud is favoured. They're begging a vet to spend a year or two. You told us, Minister, that you were interested in apiculture and that you would make EUR 19.4 million available for the National Apiculture Programme. However, it considers your decisions to be problematic, the Beekeepers' Federation, even noting that the coronary could not be moved and that it was springtime, i.e. a critical era, with consequences for their production and you have not included them in the affected. And they're right. With regard to Article 7, there is a insistence on the cultivation of cannabis and they say that it will contribute little - not much - to the development of the country, which is why it essentially calls for tyres. I shall therefore remind you of the following, because there is always a continuity. In the joint ministerial decision in April 2016 of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Rural Development for the cultivation of hemp intended for industrial use, you set the terms and conditions for the cultivation of the hemp varieties with a tetrahydrocannabinol content of up to 0,2% and entered as a prerequisite the farmer must have a white penal record and has not been convicted for drug offences. In addition, annual on-the-spot checks were to be carried out at 20% of the area declared. The choice of the controlled area would have made it - and it is made - by the farmer himself. The samples would be sent to public or private control laboratories, and the farmer himself would choose the laboratory. It seems to me that a procedure is being promoted which does not guarantee control of cannabis, that is to say, whether it is cloning or indian. And it's not just a seed issue, it's also a technique of irrigation. And that was what the technocrats who wrote the decision said. That's what I wanted to say about the history he's always got. Finally, as far as legislative improvements are concerned, it does not change anything specifically in Articles 27 and 28 that we are going to vote on and we are going to express ourselves with the'residents' in Article 29, having made comments, but we do not see you taking them into consideration. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, we are voting for the first and in the second part we are expressing ourselves with 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u108	Thank Mrs Manolakou. The special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos is now called in Stepma. Here, Mr. Villarde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in yesterday's plenary we referred to the principle of the draft law and, more generally, to the primary sector, with a number of proposals that we hope will be adopted. The President of Greek Solution further pointed out the problem of water that will be intensified, noting that the last Greece needs is the golf establishments that were wrong with the tourism bill, because they require very large quantities of water. In addition, we are pleased to hear from Members of the Government that they agree with the need to change our economic model, with a view to developing our primary sector, manufacturing and industry, rather than constantly promoting tourism as a monoculture. We would, of course, like to point out that special attention should be paid to the issue of the feeding of the Greeks, since there are major shortages in domestic food after September. For example, farmers planted potatoes in February and are forced today to sell them at prices below costs due to the drop in demand from the 'closure' of our economy, so that they do not have any money to buy new seeds - unfortunately imported hybrids - to plant new ones. If, therefore, they are not backed up in time by the state, as we have proposed, we will face major problems. However, we hope to convince you of the other parts of our political ideology, such as the mixed economy, so that you can stop applying the extreme neoliberal methods that the Germans have imposed on you for their own benefit, namely that the public-owned and strategic enterprises must belong to the private sector, so it is a crime that you are planning, such as PPC, IPTO, IPTO, ELPE, etc. In addition, we want to convince you that democracy is not compatible with today's uncontrolled globalisation or with the multiculturally corrupted society that you are promoting, as well as the need for a constitutional court, without which the rule of law does not work. It is paradoxical, however, that the New Democracy implements a right, an extreme neoliberal policy, and a left internationalist immigration. These two are incompatible. With regard to the articles of the draft law, we have asked the Minister's arrogant conduct, according to which it is so good that they do not allow their criticism. In this respect, apart from having made our comments to the committees, for each of them, the most important is that they are partial arrangements, without vision and without a proposal for real development. No vision at all. Besides, the Minister himself admitted that we were right when we said that it was a kind of stitching-off, with the aim of solving problems, not an effective plan for our primary sector that needs to be made as soon as possible. We absolutely need it. In any case, in today's debate we will again refer to certain articles, of course, to the minimum time available to us. Articles 5 and 7: It is something different to promote Indian cannabis for pharmaceutical purposes only, with very strict state controls and specifications and other industrial cultivation. Obviously, we do not want to turn Greece into Cuba of the old, filling it with casinos and hallucinogenics. We doubt whether the government is able to control such crops, let alone when Greece's biggest problem, number one is the lack of control mechanisms. We have therefore called for the articles to be withdrawn, since we need growth, but not in such a way. In Article 8, unfortunately, the problems of Greek livestock farmers are not solved. In relation to the existing ones, operating licences, even in the form of special permits, must be launched in a simpler way because they already exist and support local economies, as well as the farmers who exploit them. In any case, the farmers must be compensated for the duration of the suspension of their unit’s operation until it is fully reopened in the new position. Article 11: our proposal here is to provide for 20-year-old renting of all grassland bound by the forest maps so that the farmer can increase the number of animals, which for each animal he receives additional financial aid from the European Union. It is also possible to allow and facilitate the construction of at least semi-monomous housing facilities in the pastures. In Article 12: there is a disaster of the genus with the fishing gear of the foreigners, and the same, rightly so, are forbidden for the Greeks. In addition, foreigners do not check and fish wherever they want, despite the fact that they are viewed electronically by the port, even the name of their fishing vessel, without doing anything at all. As for the Greeks, then, they must also apply to foreigners, as well as to Greek fishing grounds internationally, if not the EEZ, at least the fishing grounds. Article 19: In this case, it has been correctly mentioned by a colleague from your party, the New Democracy, that it is unfair that the debts of the cooperatives created before 1990, not on their own responsibility, are paid by the new cooperatives. We know that you have negotiated this by reducing the amount, but it is still great, with the risk of a number of cooperatives closing down. So a better solution has to be found. Article 21: our proposal here was to grant compensation in cash, capable of complying with current market prices, for the farmer to fully cover the compulsory market for a new animal to replace the deceased animal. Finally, in Article 27, the provision is correct. It was time for Greeks to be punished exemplarily, as they are called, as long as there is control, which is not as simple as it sounds. For example, if a Skopje company exports tomatoes to Greece, with the first recipient of a strawman, as usual, who then sells them for Greek, then the next buyer, having the invoice cannot be punished, while the strawman when he sees the problem, simply disappears. Effective control in this regard would be the first days before the goods were sold. Have you started such possibilities? Is there any possibility of such checks? What we would like, however, would be a monthly publication of a list of fines imposed on the Ministry's website, so that all Greeks will be informed. We have the same remarks on Articles 28 and 29, which are of the same importance, as long as they are accompanied by strict checks to ensure that they are complied with. In conclusion, we take the view that the bill solves some of the problems that exist, but without having the development dimension that should be used for a sector that could actually lead Greece out of the crisis. So it seems that the Government is not convinced of the possibilities of our primary production, which are clear, to study their importance for countries such as the Netherlands and Israel. We hope that she will understand it at some point and that without a centrally planned sector she will never develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Mr. Criton Arsenis, special speaker at Mera25. After Mr Arsenis, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Skrekas, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you said in your speech yesterday that you were wrong to blame you for the Greeks because you greatly increase the fines and change the picture. We therefore want to ask you your intentions when you make fraud sanctions more vague. Why are you doing this? When you allow them to open up businesses from people who have been caught for Hellenism and continue fraud and Hellenism. Why are you doing this? When you allow the import of artificial honey. Why are you doing this? When you don't have any tracking. You're saying you're bringing in a new bill on tracking. We'll wait for it. But on the basis of what we see in this bill, we are not allowed to be optimistic. Tell us why you are reducing the fines to half, with intent on agricultural capital, livestock and livestock? What for? Why do you stop seizing fishing licences from people who have been caught illegal? If we go to the cannabis, you said you didn't want her to be discouraged. You are not telling the truth, it is obvious that you are making the system of industrial cannabis exterminating. In your statements you closed the eye that the industrial cannabis is like the drug cannabis. You closed your eyes to this process, smuggling the people who have entrepreneurially advanced this process, the growers, make them be exposed to being accused of illegality when they have fully cultivated certified seeds. So you prevent them, you intimidate them. For us this bill is full of favors and services. We ask you to do a favor over and over again from this Step. We want you to go and ask for a political solution to the European Union for the more than a hundred cooperatives you are now putting them in the middle of the crisis to pay more than EUR 100 million, since a few months ago you have brought their privatisation by participating in the capital of individuals who can control the general meetings in practice. So the only solution you offer them is privatisation. If they were private, if they were investors, as they were called, you would have found a solution, because they are cooperatives not found. In Article 8 for the extension of permits for livestock establishments to settlements once again, like all previous governments, instead of having a definition of land use and ending this issue of time, do a favor without solving the issue to these people and continue to conflict them with the inhabitants of the settlements. For the National Apiculture Register, we are in favour, but why do apiculture centres not participate, why do you exclude them? For pilgrimage management plans you are actually continuing the work of SYRIZA's L.4351 where it gives pastures that are basically forest land as areas that have a unique activity in grazing. We're against it. Fisheries regulations in Article 12, you have rightly brought the possibility of banning fishing and I would ask you to legislate on fishing shelters, something that exists in the common agricultural policy, and it should also be done in Greece with the collapse of these fish stocks we have. Why don't you do it? And why didn't previous governments do it? It is true, however, that you will not ban fishing when you have abolished all the provisions for regular recording, the responsibilities of the NATURA bodies, you have granted the aquarium systems for aquaculture, etc.Huh? Veterinary medicinal products, why don't you ban their online mood? Why don't you do that illegal, too? In ELGA, in Article 17, why do you have lawyers without incompatibility? Why do you not put the minimum guarantees normally provided by the law for such procedures? We in this bill see some tightening of penalties where there is no control instrument and we see the relaxation of penalties wherever there is control. We see favors and services when the agricultural sector, at the moment in the deepest part of the crisis, needs areas and solutions of substance. These are completely absent from your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis, and in particular for the time you have held, which is in the interests of your colleagues. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Skrekas, is now being asked to come to Step as soon as the seat is settled. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development, which has been introduced for discussion, is taking place at a critical time for the country. It is a time when we all realize that the Greek economy must change. I will take evidence of what the special speaker of Mera25 said that monoculture is not a good thing either for the economy. And for what? Because when a country's economy is highly dependent on an economic sector then there is a great risk. What's the danger? If this economic sector collapses then, along with it, it will collapse or be subjected to a very significant blow and the economy as a whole. This demonstrates the importance of the primary sector, and this indicates how important today's bill is at the moment. It is important, because the pandemic and its consequences and the consequences of Lockdown have shown where the thing has to go with the Greek economy. We now need the primary sector of the country, the agricultural sector, in cooperation with the secondary sector, the processing, balanced support for the commercial tertiary sector, which is services, which are tourism. And so alone we can have a sustainable economy, a competitive economy, a national economy that can ensure a stable and satisfactory income and prosperity for Greek citizens. And how does that prove? At a time when in March, April, in May, we saw many economic sectors collapse after Lockdown, we saw that the primary sector and the agricultural sector were better resisting than any other sector in the economy in this health crisis. Indeed, there were also damage-driven activities. For example, Greek stockfarmers saw both the prices and demand of amnorifs during the weeks before Easter to have a reduction. The same thing has happened with fishermen with aquaculture, perhaps the same thing has happened with flower producers where 60%, 65% of their production is currently happening in Lockdown. On the other hand, however, we see that too many agricultural products break one record after another in terms of exports, for example kiws this year will break export records. Exports to oranges, lemons and strawberries are increasing, and we were afraid at first that there would be a problem and we would discuss with the producers. It seems that these exports are going very well too. The apples, peaches and apricots that started, the watermelons that started and for which we seem to also have an increase in the sales volumes and an increase in the selling price. So it seems that Greek crisis media products occupy space in the international markets that they did not have, gain market shares and sees the opportunity before us if we support this primary sector to have a much more important contribution to the national economy, to agricultural income, to rural cohesion. Of course all of this must be said that they cannot be guaranteed in the long term, if, of course - as has rightly been said in this Chamber - we have not ensured a strategic plan that ensures these fundamental features that will support a competitive, sustainable agricultural sector and the future generations. That is why the current government and the current Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has, from the very beginning, put support for the agricultural sector as a priority, which is initially seen from the latter, namely, the allocation - in principle - of an amount of EUR 150 million in support of those agricultural activities which are affected by the koroni pandemic. This is seen from the measures we have taken so far - the reduction of income tax from 22% to 9% by 12 000 euros - it is apparent from the arrangements that we have made for PPC, where with 15% advance payment the farmer or TWG who had debts to PPC to regulate and thus to reconnect to the national network and to be able to irrigate his fields. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President. It turns out by visiting the symbolic and not only, but essential, as the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in the first excursions after Easter, where he visited a farm, he visited two brothers farmers - one has even been awarded as a "farmer of the year" - at Attica, where he discussed, asked, heard the problems that the agricultural sector and young farmers have today. There we have also presented to him an electronic platform, a service developed by the Ministry of Rural Development, which enables farmers, producers, cooperatives, processors, households to display their products through a structure, through an electronic service, and so that they can create new cooperation to promote their products. It seems, then, through the National Strategic Plan for the Reconstruction of Agricultural Infrastructures, the ESDP, which is currently working on the most valuable resource the farmer needs today. We cannot talk about sustainable agriculture, competitive agriculture in the next few decades, unless we ensure water in sufficient quantities and good quality. How do we do that? Making use of surface water, collecting water and directing it through closed irrigation networks in the fields, which helps the environment and protects the country's water supply, but also reduces the cost of farmers' production, since they do not need the huge amounts of energy used by the farmer to draw water from deep depths. So, in fact, we have designed and developed a uniform, coherent strategic plan for agriculture to support agricultural incomes, to ensure the country's food adequacy and safety, to protect the environment and, of course, to support the national economy. Of course, this is the best time, at the moment, when we are discussing the new common agricultural policy for 2021-2027. Maybe it'll start in 2022, maybe in 2023, with the extensions he's taken. It is now an opportunity to see the atrocities that have shaken the agricultural sector over the past few years and to design a rural sector which is sustainable and which can provide the necessary income for farmers so that they can live their families and continue to grow and, on the other hand, contribute to the national economy. All this cannot be done by one project alone. The plans are good. Strategic plans are presented every time a government changes. Many times and every time a minister of the same government changes the strategic plan. Finally, the results show where the situation is going. And since I have heard a lot of criticism in this Chamber - particularly from the SYRIZA MPs, the opposition and especially from people who have also been ministers of the previous government - about the bill, that it is supposedly a fragmentary bill, which is not part of a more general plan and which may not help so much or at all, is a regulatory obligation by the European Commission regulations, let me tell you two examples of what happened last four years and why the SYRIZA MPs and especially those who have been in a position of responsibility when they come and judge the current government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u114	Please, Minister, at nine minutes you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u115	I'm going to need a little more, Mr. President, it's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u116	They're both your colleagues still. The Minister and the State Secretary will also speak, so please finish because time is valuable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u117	This bill has the krone of Greekizations. We know what illegal Greekism means. But let me tell you what this has had to do with Greek farmers for the last four years. I have here the information which I shall present, Mr President, to the Members present. In 2015 SYRIZA took over the country's rule and the price of sheep's raw milk was 96 minutes. When SYRIZA left us in 2019, the price of sheep's milk was reduced to 80 minutes, a 17% reduction. This overall means that Greek farmers lost 100m euros on an annual basis from the reduced price of milk they sold. A hundred million euros each year were lost by the rule of SYRIZA. What happened the same time with the feta? Reducing the price of milk is likely also a reduction in the sale or production of feta? On the contrary! In 2015, feta production reached 103,000 tons, when in 2018 it had reached 123,000 tons. Increasing 17% -18% of feta production and decreasing, on the contrary, 17% of the price of milk. But why was that? I have here the evidence of the imports of sheep's milk. In 2015 it was 2.574,000 pounds of imports. In 2017, with a government of SYRIZA, it was 11.780,000 pounds of milk imports. Repeat: 2.574 000 kg imports in 2015, four times more imports of raw milk, sheep milk, former Minister of Government SYRIZA in 2017. What does that mean? Of course 100 million lost from the pockets of Greek farmers - which are not compensated - and not just that. The production of Greek milk produced decreased by 50,000,000 kg from 2018 to 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u118	Please, Minister, complete. You've been in twice the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u119	And one last, and I'll finish. Strategic plan without infrastructure can anyone believe there is? How many infrastructures, how many irrigation networks, as I have said before, have been auctioned for four and a half years by the SYRIZA government? Can I talk to you about the number? Zero! From the Ministry of Rural Development neither a irrigation, nor an enhancement, nor a dam, nor a rural infrastructure project has not been auctioned for four and a half years!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. In ten months' time, we have already launched and auctioned - 16 June - the tender is being completed - three European budgets of over EUR 37 million, but three more until July also a budget of EUR 30 million and we continue until the end of the year to publish and auction infrastructure projects that are important to farmers, to the economy, to jobs. You must be careful of what you say because that's what you did. You have the misfortune, Mr. former SYRIZA's Minister for Rural Development, to have ruled for four and a half years and now people know and know very well what you have done for this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u123	Mr Colleague, when it comes to your speech, you will tell them. Now you don't have any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u124	Wait a minute, just a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u125	All right, we'll take it away from time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u126	Acceptable, remove it from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u127	We won't remove it, just shorten it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u128	Let us clarify this: We need to thank Mr Skreka for the information he gave, because this proves that the information on milk, that the milk imports suddenly appeared, means that the circuit of the Greekizations was revealed,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u129	What does a reduction in production mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u130	...that until 2014 the imported milk baptised it "Greek" from the back door and then, with the controls, it appeared that it actually originated from imports! That is exactly what it shows that there has been systematic work on the controls, a job which you have now completely stopped by dismantling both the FYROM and all the control mechanisms. Also, for the projects you say, thirty-two projects were included in the Public Investment Programme. Ten months later, you tell us that only two - three have started to auction and you're proud of it? For God's sake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President, for the time, because I would like to put things in place. Mr Colleague, I would urge you to be a little more careful and to read the information I have submitted, because it seems that the imports of fresh sheep are four times increased between 2015 and 2017. In 2018 and 2019 you again ruled. It seems that because, unfortunately, the price of milk dropped, imports went back to 2015 levels, to two million pounds a year. That means that what you say has nothing to do with reality. Your inadequacy and inefficiency in the audits has shown that the problem of illegal Greek-green milk has been gigantic and even refreshed. That's the first. Secondly, do you really think that in four and a half years' time you were able to do an act of integration of thirty-two European works on 5 July 2019, two days before the elections? After four and a half years you have done an act of integration of studies that existed since 2014. The previous ones had been made by you. We in ten months have started and have auctioned EUR 35 million and in two more months will have reached EUR 70 million. I think the comparison is simple and everyone understands it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u134	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like to talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u136	No, that's enough. I'll talk to you later. There's no dialogue here. It's not personal either. I'll give you some more time when you talk. When your turn comes, you will tell your opinions. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I will speak for a minute of the total twelve that I am entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u138	To make it clear, the parliamentary representatives in this procedure are entitled to eight minutes, not twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u139	And four, Mr President. You gave us the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u140	We said not to use secondarys. We'll go to the middle, ten minutes for everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u141	It's another thing you're telling me that I'm entitled to eight minutes. Mr President, because we are talking about our national product, the feta and the SYRIZA - because I hear the allegations made by the former ministers - they are much worse than what Mr Screkas has presented. Mr. Comrade, in 2015 we had a hundred and three thousand tons of feta. In 2019 we had a hundred and twenty - three thousand tons of feta, an increase of 20%. At the same time, we had a reduction of 50 million litres of milk produced here. And Mr. Screkas says that according to evidence, we had 11 million litres of imports. The account doesn't come out, because obviously there were also a multitude of illegal, undeclared imports. That's the only way out the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u142	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u143	Please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u144	Mrs. Tyloridou, we're talking about official numbers here. Here we say that domestic production has decreased by fifty million, that the import has increased by eleven million and that the production of feta has increased by 20% at the same time. How, then, did you protect the national product? Reduce the producer price from 95-96 minutes to 80 minutes. 100 million a year. 400 million during your administration. And you gave 42 million reinforcements, one tenth. So you protected the Greek producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u145	Tell us how many pounds of milk it takes a pound of feta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Arachovite, you'll be speaking in a moment. If you speak, the Minister will have to answer again. It's not personal. It's about time you got to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u148	Please give me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u149	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. We need to clarify why, perhaps, ladies and gentlemen - and I am not saying that to God, they do not know exactly how the production mechanism is and how the control mechanisms are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u151	But that takes time to develop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u152	That's why I won't say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u153	I know that, because I come from an area that is the third region in Greece that makes most milk. I know that. You need time for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, let me finish. Firstly, the production of feta and the protection of exports is seen by the agreements with Singapore, Japan and the NPT countries, where we have full protection, full protection, contrary to the ETA agreement. Secondly, with regard to controls, you should be more careful, because you have the evidence in front of you as to what the results of the SYRIZA audits were, what the results were before 2014, and the tenth month that you have the responsibility of governance now, dismantling the mechanisms. To finish the debate in this part, people know very well who the mechanisms that upload or downgrade prices and who it was when there was a matter stood and supported the producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u156	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u157	Here we have a role mutation, very fast role rotation. On the one hand, protectors of farmers and farmers and, on the other, market mechanisms. Mr Arachovitis, you have told us that you know what the mechanisms are that shape the prices and implied for the production of slices, that one to four and so on is not observed. What did you do? The Minister told you the day before yesterday that the fines for Greekisations were imposed and will end in 2024.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u158	Did you have a revolution?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Arachovite, I have not interrupted you. You did not, however, answer the challenge of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Mr Skreka, that you have undertaken a producer price of 96 minutes and delivered a producer price of 80 minutes. And that has to do with the control mechanisms in the market. It has to do with your political will to protect PDO products. And don't tell us about agreements like Singapore and Japan, because you know that these little affect the image. Useful are and are extended and completed. I conclude by saying that you left to the mercy of both the conditions and mechanisms the Greek producer and you also went to subsidize him instead of protecting his production. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Bukkaro, you'll tell them more thoroughly later. Mr Stamenitis, what I said before, in fact, Lesvos - statistically I say this - is the third county in Greece of milk production after Larissa and Ioannina. The issue that Mr Arachovitis opened up is very much debated, but Mr Vorides will say so too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u162	Here you go, Mr. Screka, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u163	Although I do not need to reply, because, I think, the Members have understood what is happening, but in order to put things in place, Mr President, I would like to say to you some information on the checks for your own administration and the time of administration of this government and, in fact, half of it. Since July 2019, we have taken over. Let's go see what happened in 2018 and 2019. Safety checks at the production stage. Twelve thousand ninety-eight in 2018, fourteen thousand two hundred twenty-two in 2019. Checks to comply with the specifications at the production stage. Eleven thousand four hundred fifty one check in 2018, fourteen thousand sixty one check in 2019. Extraordinary checks of all kinds. Thousands of four hundred forty-five extraordinary checks in 2018, a thousand nine hundred thirty two extraordinary checks in 2019. Price of sheep's milk in 2018 75 to 80 minutes, price of sheep's milk today 90-95 minutes. This is the difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u164	We are now entering the list of speakers from yesterday's sitting. The first is the Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Zesi Jekalaya.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about upgrading and modernising the agricultural sector. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food brings in a great bill that has as its main aim the enhancement of income from agricultural production. In time and fixed terms, the New Democracy as a party and in recent months as a government aims as many Greek citizens and especially young people as possible to turn to the primary sector of agricultural production, so that income from agricultural production grows as a percentage of Gross National Product. In order to do this, we need to have a liberation from strangles and administrative malfunctions. The recent pandemic that tested our country has also had consequences in the agricultural sector. We saw it by entering the spring from the lack of workers' hands that existed due to the closure of the borders. With fast reflexes, the government decided to ban the reduction of the unemployment benefit for those who were seasonally entering rural work. At the same time, some time ago we decided on the pensioners who want to work to have 70% of their pensions and not 40% as decided by the previous government. We have decided and legislated that the pensioners of all the funds should not have any cutbacks on their pensions, since the income from agricultural work does not exceed EUR 10,000. The most important things in the draft law, in my opinion, are to improve the regulatory framework of supervised bodies, such as ELGA and GEOTE, to simplify the procedure for assessing fertilisers from urban and industrial waste. The earthly improvements are carried from the Ministry to the municipalities. It is very important that Article 9 of Chapter II. Our country has an excellent climate, a rare biodiversity, which leads to the production of one of the best honeys in the world. That is why we provide for the establishment of a National Electronic Register and the mandatory individual beekeeping identity. I will focus, like the previous State Secretary, Mr Skrekas, on the fact that the most important achievement of this bill is Chapter G, Articles 27, 28 and 29, which deal with the fight against illegal Hellenism, against misleading consumers about food origin. I come from an area, from the Kastoria Prefecture, where the most important agricultural income comes out of beans and apples. I will set an example in terms of beans. While our country consumes twenty-five thousand tonnes of beans a year and produces only eight to ten thousand tons a year, and they stayed undisturbed beans - one is this - or when they were sold, they were sold at very low prices. So we are for the first time providing for criminal sanctions to be imposed on the offenders, and we are stricting administrative fines. We have published the company's data and the contested products for the offenders and the fines are from EUR 30 to EUR 300 000. We permanently remove from the non-compliant PDO, PGI, PSP and organic products to recurring. Article 29 in particular, as regards criminal sanctions, speaks for at least three months of imprisonment in defective products and whether they are harmful for three years and at least three months of imprisonment for the harmful products. Paragraph 3 says that anyone who mixes food of different qualities also has an administrative fine and an imprisonment. Very important for all of Greece, but I think it is particularly important for my region, Kastoria, that paragraph 4, which provides that anyone who shows another country of origin from the real or using false PDOs, etc, has at least two years' imprisonment. All the previous years, we have been talking too much about illegal Greekism. I remember in my first parliamentary term 2009-2012 for asking the relevant ministers questions about what we will do, and so on. Unfortunately, we have seen, many times, the Directorates for Agriculture of the relevant departments, while they had the weapons and the legal framework, not to make it self-evident. And to make myself understandable to give an example. We cannot know that a field of production gives fifteen tons of a product and 30 tons appear for compensation or some declarations. Something didn't work all these years. That is why it will be better and more importantly, immediately. For some time now we have announced, and we have been doing so as a tool to fund the University of Patras workshop to build a possible traceability of genetic material. With all this I would like to say that the current New Democracy government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis wants us to turn a greater proportion of the Greek population and especially our young people in agricultural production. Because the primary sector has the potential to provide better income, so better quality of life for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u166	Mr Colleagues, thank you very much for keeping the time fully. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Dimitrios Haritou, the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vorides, wants to make some legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u167	Because Mr. Cooke was impatient, we said we should speed up the testimony of the legislators, so we're filing them. We replace 'or' with 'and'. In a paragraph below concerning a fine threshold of EUR 10, without setting a ceiling, we set a maximum of ‘up to 100’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u168	I would also like to inform you of something else, Mr President, if I may. I am being informed by the Ministry of the Environment that they have tabled an amendment with a general number of 333 with a special number of 22. Mr. Hatzidakis will come and support her. It's about Lake Coronia. The basic intervention that this amendment makes - I say it because I have signed it, but I will not develop it - will do so by Mr Hatzidakis at approximately 13.00 p.m. - is that we are trying to create a single centre that coordinates the actions of the various ministries. It is designated as such a competent centre of the Ministry of the Environment, because there was a fragmentation of responsibilities, and so there is no effective coordination of measures to restore Coronia Lake. This is the main content of this device. The rest will be developed by Mr. Hatzidakis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Haritou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. We don't blame you, gentlemen of the government, that the arrangements you bring with the bill do not matter. Obviously, they also matter, such as the so-called Greekisations of products, which is an obligation to implement the European regulation or the National Apiculture Register, or the arrangements for the industrial cannabis that we are opposed to because you are in favour of supporting farmers' incomes and contributing to the restructuring of crops. We are inviting you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, firstly because you are not bringing arrangements for the most serious issues, from what we have committed to the beginning of the year, such as the issue of the agricultural insurance of the ELGA. By the way, after the fiasco leave without personnel, give a solution to the problem of staffing. We have had extensive damage from extreme weather phenomena in many areas - and in Rhodope - in cherries, in vineyards, in sports. There is a need for immediate support. The second reason, ladies and gentlemen, that we are very critical of you is that at a time when the agricultural and livestock world is suffocating because of the consequences of the pandemic, you seem to be in the hands of satisfaction. Is that contagious, gentlemen? Because it is not explained otherwise by the Prime Minister of the country not to say a single word about the primary sector. You have claimed only 150 million, but you are unable to make use of these few things to support the affected sectors. The third reason, gentlemen, is that we are concerned that in the national strategic plan which the country is obliged to submit to the European Commission for the disbursement of the 32 billion package, if you continue to move as it has been before, the primary sector is in danger of not having its place in the overall planning. You must bring the objectives, priorities, actions for the recovery and transformation of the primary sector to Parliament immediately. But, gentlemen, if there is to be a next day, the agri-food sector must stand by the consequences of the crisis today. You, gentlemen of the government, move along with his logic of "seeing and doing" with the principle of the immunity of the herd "whoever bears" to support him later. We have tabled a package of targeted support policies to keep up all those involved in the primary sector. I would therefore like them to be heard from the Step of the House. We are talking about measures such as payment to commercial farmers, farmers and fishermen of an advance payment of EUR 2 000, a reduction of 50% in the advance payment of tax to the economically weak of all sectors, aid with emergency income, a 20% reduction in the contribution of the ELGA to beneficiaries this year - if possible today - of 70% of the direct payments, as well as all the State's debts and liabilities to beneficiaries. These are measures totalling 300 million in support of the primary sector, 80 million of which should be directed to livestock farming. You, gentlemen of the government, have spent almost three months since the pandemic and you're still sifting. We hear you explain about criteria, compensation conditions, transparency. You're only fine words. But, as far as things are concerned, the rural world, the farmers, the fishermen are no longer full of words. That is why, at last, in order for everyone involved to know what specific aid measures are to be taken, what level they are to be, to whom they are addressed and what specific timetable. You have announced, Minister, that I do not see you - from the first, in fact, damages in 2018 only for Evros. Let me remind you that in 2018 the cotton, cereals and tobacco were affected in Evros and Rhodope. Minister, why two yards and two stations? Last November, the ELGA Steering Committee unjustly considered compensation in Thrace to be ineligible. On what criteria were you only eligible for the damages in Evros, while those in Rhodope remained ineligible? Why? Are the feelings of injustice not justified, where do producers feel? Also, tobacco producers who were destroyed at the same time by fibrosis, what other elements would you like to make them eligible? I said you were sifting. The ovine and caprine farmers of Thrace were the biggest hit. They were kept alive in the pandemic, with the known consequences, and took them for a short time, two euros a kilo alive. The tragic thing is that they are in danger today of double losers, if these are the case, who leak that you are ready to announce, because of the thousands of three hundred forty-six ovine and caprine farmers in Rhodope and the five thousand periphery, most are in danger of finding themselves out of financial aid. And you know why? Because their holdings are located in the mountain and mountainous Rhodopes, areas which are not collected milk by the industries with the consequence that, without their own fault, they do not meet the conditions for being beneficiaries of the associated aid. This is a very serious injustice. You spoke, Mr. Secretary, about lowering the price of milk in SYRIZA. Obviously you remember that the reductions continued in 2019. Only you have concealed, Minister, that in the first half of 2019 the government of SYRIZA, through de minimis, gave almost EUR 50 million support to farmers. Finally, if, as you say, you are also generous in the matter of aid to farmers, show the practice, gentlemen of the government, integrating all the farmers in the region into aid. To conclude, I wanted to say that it closes one year from the 2019 losses in Rhodope and still remains unpaid - the remaining 35% - producers. At last, make the decision and deliver what belongs to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u171	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Georgios Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after thanking my colleague, Mrs Brysidou, for the courtesy of her turn, I will begin with a joint statement: The Koroni crisis has demonstrated the importance of the primary sector for our country and the need for immediate and effective modernisation of agricultural production, boosting exports and protecting Greek agricultural products. This bill attempts with new, innovative provisions, to liberate the production process of the agricultural sector from existing malfunctions and administrative turbulence and to produce important work quickly. I am beginning with Articles 27 and 28 on distorted foods and on the illegal use of indications of products of designations of origin or protected geographical indication or traditional specialities guaranteed, which provide for an increase in administrative fines, and are to be punished by two to five years in prison for production, import, storage, handling and disposal to the consumer of foods showing another place of production or origin from their actual origin. With this, the illegal Hellenism industry stops, lawlessness stops, hardship and misleading, and what the current Prime Minister is doing on May 6, 2018, speaking from Karditsa about the feta was proclaiming, that is, the fight against illegal Hellenism. Article 13 regulates the issues of aquaculture. Our country has a constantly growing production both qualitatively and quantitatively, and that is why it is one of the export sectors of our primary sector. That is why it is also responsible for the decentralised administration in adopting the operating regulations of an organised water-growing area, and requires, inter alia, that, for its approval, a regulation of operation be laid down under the responsibility of the operator. And, of course, it generally regulates, in detail, the operating issues of such units. Alongside Article 12, the disturbance of the aquatic ecosystem is protected against the risk of destruction of fish stocks and in particular of the genus, since a decision of the Minister may impose restrictive measures on fishing in certain maritime areas and for a certain period of time. At this point, I would like to refer to and stress the importance of the drafting and operation in our country of marine spatial planning through which the maritime areas of our country are most properly and productively deployed, and also in the areas of systematic fishing. Of course, marine spatial planning is not only about aquaculture but also about any kind of use of the marine, underwater and the coastal environment. I have asked the Minister for the Environment to go ahead and complete the preparation of the country's national maritime spatial planning. It is also worth mentioning Article 9, which deals with one of the most important sectors in the primary sector in our country, the one in apiculture. It regulates as far as beekeepers are concerned by creating the National Electronic Beekeeping Register, establishing individual beekeeping identity and monitoring of all beekeepers in this way. Thanks to the provisions of this Article, cases of disease may be recorded, thefts are restricted, the market in honey is monitored, imports monitored, the productivity monitoring of bee-weeds is planned and the movement of bee from place to place is recorded, the marketing of honey is monitored, the polluting of wild and cultivated flora is improved, the State is given the opportunity to warn bee-weeders in cases of use of biocidal products and, of course, easier development and support programmes for bee-keeping are promoted after the procedures for financing are simplified. Let me stress once again that beekeeping, in addition to its export capacity, has a significant contribution to preserving our country's biodiversity and flora, and rightly is one of the first priorities of our national agricultural policy. I also consider it important for the unemployed who are now able to work in rural areas without losing their allowances, but also for pensioners who are also able to work in rural areas without losing their pensions, because this is why work is in every way strengthened, and even declared work, instead of unemployment being subsidized. The bill also regulates issues of the bodies supervised by the Ministry, such as ELGA, GEOTEE. Let me stress, as I mentioned ELGA, the pressing need to compensate the cherry producers in Lamia and the olive producers of Phthiotida, because they are known after my own mention of the problems of the cherry nut and of the problems with the low olive prices. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the views of the opposition colleagues in which, apart from the political need to diversify themselves from the government proposal, each of them referred positively to articles and provisions of the bill. If we sum up these scorpically positive views of everyone in different articles, then reasonable and unviable we conclude that the bill as a whole finds it positive and recognises that it makes important steps in modernising the primary sector of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And for us Members of the House, the bill also expresses something very important: the consistency of words and works and the respect of the pre-election commitments of Mr Mitsotakis and our Government. And this, along with modernising our primary sector of our country, strengthens our credibility towards the Greek people and its confidence in our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u173	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, just one clarification: finally the minutes of the speech are six or seven? We don't understand why you've put it in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Athanasios, what you did isn't right. Yesterday they spoke on average ten minutes apart from the speeches. There will be no two-speed parliamentarians!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u176	We said today it's seven minutes. Don't worry, we're not gonna cut time. Don't worry. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u177	So, Mr President, let us make it clear that we have six minutes with a tolerance of one more minute. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have no doubt experienced, experienced and experienced an unprecedented situation regarding pandemic in the future. I think that tectonic-type changes were caused both in everyday life, in social, economic and political life. That is why, before we say anything else, I think, as a national delegation, we should give a huge thank you, show our gratitude to the world of the rural economy, to the land workers, to the farmers, to the farmers, to the fishermen, to the fishermen, who all worked in the pandemic on a daily basis in order to strengthen and maintain the supply chain and not create food problems in the country. But I think that in the second phase of the lifting of restrictive measures we are now at the level of dealing with the consequences of pandemic on the economy and how it is structured. That is why I thank the world of work, in the world of the rural economy, in the public health world, we must finally transform it into a real policy of strengthening all these sectors. I therefore believe that the drafts we are presenting should have the element of practical financial support, of practical support at this level. Undoubtedly Mr Vorides is a intelligent man, he is indeed a smart politician, especially when he is called upon to support bills concerning the Ministry of Rural Development. I heard him, indeed, impressed yesterday's introductory speech. What did he say? On the one hand, it has stumbled on us that, as a Qualified Opposition, we have proved the "yes" in principle in this bill to be "no" and, on the other hand, this package, which it introduces into this bill, presented it not much or much as a maximum reform effort. I would first like to say that the provision concerning the apiculture register is correct. It is right that the provision concerning the bacheloring of land workers is correct. The provision for pensioners is also correct. However, I cannot believe that the sum of these provisions constitutes a maximum, maximum, reformist effort, let alone a political strategy for the destructured sector in the rural economy. So what does the Beekeeping Register have to do with the highest cost of production? What does the mistress have to do with the huge issue of the price of the field and how is it structured to the table, to the plate? So what does all these choices have to do with the real problems of the rural world? It is in the right direction, but not fellow Members of the New Democracy are not a reformist effort. I am right to see the issue and it was necessary to increase the fines for illegal Greekism. But it is not wrong to hear the criticism of Criticism that it is necessary and necessary to upgrade the control mechanism in order to prevent such illegal efforts. So I think that what is lacking in the bills, which are coming both these days and in the future is the policy applied in one field and one area alone, namely, the practical support for workers, farmers and workers in general affected by this terrible pandemic. And in order to be able to prove even more convincing what I am claiming, you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to give two examples. Let's start with the fishermen. Especially in Magnesia, this sector consists of too many people who really now face a serious problem of economic survival. I have addressed myself, Mr Screka, at least with five parliamentary questions, substantiating exactly what the problem is. You know very well that the way in which fishermen are taxed is very special. You also know that the special purpose compensation, envisaged as an aid for dealing with the pandemic, has been linked to income and tax criteria. Did you not take into account the specific method of taxation for fishermen with what effect? 50% of these people are out of emergency financial assistance. I have also noted very specifically on the major issue of co-ownership. Co-ownership, Mr. Screka, is not addressed to people shipowners. They're people who two - three together, if you want a family business, they have a whip and they're trying to work. They too have been excluded from this process. That is why I am talking about real policies, aid strategies for this world. Mr. Screka, I'm going to the second example, which Mr. Vorides knows about. I did see that he had a meeting yesterday. On Monday morning I visited the settlements of Eastern Pelion. You know, Mr. Screka, that they were hit by an unprecedented quartzing on Friday for forty-five minutes. All production in the middle zone was destroyed. The middle zone, Mr. Screka, is of high productivity. That is, apples, the famous apple Z market, cherries, pears, other vegetables have been destroyed forever. Why don't we turn this disaster into an opportunity, Mr. Screka? You know very well that climate change is a permanent treaty. From now on, such areas will often face such phenomena. Why not sit down as a political staff and discuss the change in the ELGA regulation this time, discuss covering 100% of the damage, discuss finally the clearing of ELGA's debts by compensation, discuss an extraordinary financial aid per tree. I told you climate change is a permanent treaty. Why not sit down as a political staff and discuss a huge and necessary anti-hailing programme, copying the best practices in place throughout Europe? These are real policies, these are strategies of practical support for the rural world. So I do not want to be either wooden or arterio-scoring to you that it is a good bill which, however, has failed for the time being to respond to the basic concerns of the rural world. And in no case, Mr. Screka, there is no visible strategic planning for the next day. You know very well that the answer to the real agricultural world is not in fragmentation. The problems that I mentioned are true. We should all bend together, intergrouped, so that we can draw up real aid plans for this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. The day to be determined in plenary will be announced. Mr Ioannis Economou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. I will take a little of my time to start with a matter outside the draft law, which is addressed to the Bureau with all due respect, since I am less than a year of MP. Something has to be done under the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. To change the Rules of Procedure, to say that the parliamentary representatives will have more time, the leaders will speak as much or more time as they want. In any case, we must set up a procedure because having a regulation which is not complied with I do not think it honors anyone. I'm not talking about the problems you can't schedule your business when you're missing a date. But it's a process that doesn't honor anyone. At some point, we can make a regulation with as much time as anyone wants, but keep in mind what is happening, when we will talk, how the process works and how we can all observe it. This is obviously about the government, about the Members of Parliament, and also about the Members of Parliament. I say it with all due respect. I have less than a year in Parliament, but I think it is something that several colleagues have dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Comrade, I haven't given you any time yet. I would like to say on your request that this is a reasonable request which many colleagues have put forward on all sides. We are concerned at the Conference of Presidents, although I fear that the time will not be observed. However, you will be informed of the decision of the Conference of Presidents and what can be done with the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law which regulates a number of issues relating to the primary sector in our country. I want to deal with two of them very soon. First of all, the interventions which are being made in connection with the Greekizations. Let me note that it is the first time that in Greek official state institutional texts, in the draft law, the word "Greekisation" is included. Secondly, with the interventions of this law, the country finally acquires a framework of sanctions of economic and criminal law too serious to deal with illegal Greekism, this illegal economic practice in which various circuits are carried out across the territory. I do not accidentally use the word circuits, ladies and gentlemen, since an illegal Hellenism requires a chain involving industrialists, importers, traders, shopkeepers, unconscious or naive producers, and also involving prostitutional civil servants. The results of the Hellenisms, their consequences are extremely unpleasant and multi-level. First of all, producers lose income, as is the case with farmers throughout the country, as is the case with, for example, the Kalamata oil producers in Lebanon, who are unable to sell their products even at degrading prices this year, as is the case with a range of growers. Secondly, Greek products lose their added value. We pay far more expensive products that we import from abroad as Greek and lose their price and value the products we export because of the great dispersion, the Greek products that should be sold much more accurately abroad. There are issues of food safety, as the one making illegal Greekism, namely the one selling a foreign product for Greek, there is no guarantee that it will take the necessary measures to prevent these products from threatening public health. For these and many others, too much sanctions are now being introduced, which, if combined, as has been said yesterday, with a well-planned, effective control system will surely bring far more positive results than what we have achieved as a state as a whole so far. The second point I would like to raise, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is Article 13 on the recovery of aid, i.e. money deemed to be illegal State aid and granted to cooperatives - I think the bill refers to seventy-eight - in order to repay old debts. I do not want to say anything about it, Minister, under this arrangement. To come the arrangement is clear that every other possibility has been exhausted. After all, the position of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Vorides, has rightly defined what should be the question of the debate on this regulation. I would, however, like to put forward three letters in the Minutes from 1991 between the Olive Cooperative of Stylida and the Ministry of Agriculture, which demonstrate how the debts of this cooperative were created, a cooperative otherwise perfectly stable until 1981, which created its debts in the 1980s on the basis of the government's suggestion or mandate to pursue a'social' policy. How did he practice this policy? In turn, buying expensive olives regardless of quality or quantity, which either invested money to support them until they were destroyed or sold much cheaper. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, thirty-five years ago the debts of this particular cooperative came to light, whose current administration - were all fifteen years of age, then - to pay them back, it will be called on to pay about EUR 100,000 to EUR 120,000 per year for the next twenty years, Minister. It has a value, I think, for anyone who wants to look at the Minutes of the House at some point to see what choices, what attitudes, what practices between the other agricultural cooperatives led to straying and losing their orientation. Now, ladies and gentlemen, on two issues which one is talking about the primary sector at this time, one can only focus on. The first, Mr Minister, is about the need to support the primary sector because of the horn pandemic. Producers, farmers, the professionals of the people's markets are waiting for the support I know that your Ministry and you personally have planned, as they expect, ladies and gentlemen, and the opportunity to participate in more markets. But other sectors were affected by the crisis. The farmers, the sheep and goat farmers, were affected by barley producers in Fthiotida and elsewhere, who see their contracts with the companies, with the beer manufacturing industries - both Greek and foreign - to be unilaterally unsuccessful and thus to be in a bad financial situation. Minister, your ministry must consider making every effort to strengthen all of them, as has strengthened other sectors of the economy, which have been affected by the Krone epidemic. The last point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is as important as I think we should be discussing the primary sector this time. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the Commission proposal, but also the NRP for the period 2021-2027, our country will be able to make use of EUR 50 billion over the next few years. This is 27% of our GDP, ladies and gentlemen. This is a unique opportunity, given to the country to change level and to our productive model to change direction. Medea, then, is the question of what role will be, in what way, and above all with what priority, the primary sector will enter into the fringe of these 50 billion euros. This is a very important debate, ladies and gentlemen. We have a unique opportunity in front of us, not just for strengthening, but for reconstituting our rural economy on sound foundations. We need investments to achieve this. We need investments in the field. We need closed irrigation networks. We need to appreciate the cultivation and harvest. We need investment in innovative actions, to use desalination water, biological cleansing, to use solar panels to cultivate gardening in greenhouses with aeronautics and hydroponics. We need investment in more efficient hybrids, but also in more effective and environmental ways of dealing with diseases. We need investments in software and in new technologies, processing, transport that add value to products. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of us who are involved in the primary sector, the state, the parties, the scientific staff, income, farmers have a huge responsibility - I stress it - from the standpoint of everyone, so that we do not allow this opportunity to go lost for the country and for the Greek farms, both in terms of sustainable rural development and in terms of social cohesion for our country and in terms of the demographic crisis. The primary sector must have the role it deserves, a role it does not have for decades in changing our productive model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Sunday Malama is now being called to Step by SYRIZA. Then they will be able to speak, because we have gone far enough, the parliamentary representatives. Therefore, they can declare, whenever they want, to take the floor. Mr. Hetas will be the first to speak, as he has said, after Mrs. Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u183	I'm after Mrs. Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u184	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, the list is to be finished first because we have been waiting since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u186	Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the first bill on the rural area after the pandemic and the main question is whether this bill solves the critical and urgent issues of farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, beekeepers and cooperatives. The answer is obviously no, because very simply the agricultural income went down in the previous quarter literally. The relationship between the producer and the consumer was severely affected by the health restrictions imposed, the productivity of crops decreased due to prohibitions and movement, and, of course, the restrictions on popular markets caused a huge loss of income for producers. With this bill, the Ministry chooses to regulate bureaucratic loose ends, but does not interfere with the critical structural problems of the rural area. The government triumphs for the Beekeeping Register and the apiculture identity and claims that by means of the provisions it introduces, it fights fraud in honey. However, it does not tell us that two ministerial decisions are needed to create this register which no one knows whether to be adopted and when to be adopted. The beekeeping of Halkidiki wants to enter the Greek honey market, but also wants a series of interventions that will allow it to remain dynamic and sustainable. For example, you do not support the small beekeeper, you do not support the apiculture cooperative. You do not protect Greek honey from the logical cartels and the collapse of prices of the already degraded market. You do not support cooperatives with tax exemptions so that cooperative ventures in honey can be sustainable. You do not support the vertical relationship between the producer and the consumer in honey and any other agricultural product. As far as fishermen are concerned: they too meet the same things, endless bureaucracy, exclusions from the EUR 800 bonus, and no support for the collapse of the catch market, which in many areas, such as Halkidiki, is heading along with tourism. Fishermen are denouncing the indifference of the state and the inability to make a living for small fishing plants, that is, our small boats. Similarly, for farmers, you are giving an extension to the procedures for the authorisation of staging facilities, but you are not actually regulating the issue, you do not put in place livestock parks or solve the problems of the disposal of production and prices that have immersed farmers in crisis after the coronary and falling demand in Easter. The next clearing problem, which you do not regulate, is the issue of land workers. The regulation you are bringing about the non-reduction of unemployment benefit to those who are unemployed do not solve the problem, unfortunately. The main problem is that at the time of cultivation and harvest there is a need for increased work in the field, but also for specialized work on each type of crop. The main issue is that there is never the necessary offer of legal and declared work at the time it takes, so that the farmer serves his needs from a parallel undeclared labour market. The reason is that domestic labour supply cannot meet the needs of farmers. The available hands do not reach and the needs are met by seasonal workers, but they cannot be declared as such, because they are unable to enter our country for this work. The Krone crisis will exacerbate the problem, as transnational agreements will be needed, but it is certain that they will not be completed in time. Even for farmers who want to hire poster workers with a dependent employment relationship, i.e. on a more permanent basis, there is the prerequisite for EUR 20,000 of gross income without counting the amounts of subsidies, so that the vast majority of farmers and farmers cannot make such recruitments. On the issue of farmers' compensation: it is clear that the framework, which regulates what is covered by ELGA does not go hand in hand with modern needs. We recently had an intense quartzing in Halkidiki, where apricots and cherry crops were affected. This quartzing may have affected the flowering of the green olive. If the olive tree loses its flowers and does not fruit, this for ELGA is not eligible for compensation. Therefore the ELGA does not cover all the needs of the rural world. The ELGA also delays a lot in bringing in compensation and charges the farmer and production more generally with huge bureaucracy and huge costs. Last year in Halkidiki, we had the same weather patterns. Compensation has not yet been paid to farmers. You have been telling us for a year, too, that you want to privatise the crop safety framework, instead of working on how ELGA will change its operating framework. Finally, there is an issue that has been stirring up many small producers of green olives in Halkidiki for years. These people, more than ten years ago, made their production available to the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Larissa without ever being paid. They have won a court marathon, but the liquidator of the Larissa Association of Agricultural Cooperatives has never paid them the dues. We call on you to give a solution immediately, because producers are not simply creditors, they are the basis of the rural economy, and if we do not protect their primary production will be destroyed. I would like to end by saying: we are very concerned about the future of the Halkidiki bio-farmers. You did not extend the programme to support organic farming, despite the interventions of the whole agricultural world. We have asked you to reconsider your position on this matter without so far being heard. We bring this back to you, because it is crucial, it is crucial to support sustainable farming practices, strengthen the income of farmers and the food quality of consumers. In conclusion, I should like to refer to what the Minister said yesterday. Too bad he's not here. He used a proverb in relation to pancakes and honey. I would therefore like to say to him that in Halkidiki for the bill the Halkidikiites say'very oil and pancakes'. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Lots of oil and pancakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, my colleague. Mrs. Friday Brysidou from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in time, more than ever, we need to support the agricultural, livestock and aquaculture sectors. Because after a long-term economic crisis and after the economic crisis because of the coronary, we must support the areas that can return this support to our economy, to the fight against unemployment, to make Greece's voice strong in Europe and around the world, and of course, to ensure adequate food in our country, local foods, which will make the country self-sufficient and strong. In order to be able to support the agricultural and livestock sectors, however, we need to take care of many individual issues, we need to look closely at all the individual issues and take care of them. This bill is the beginning of this process, where malfunctions and strangles go to the margin and open the road and helps the agricultural and livestock sectors to take steps and to be able to progress. Of the articles that exist in this bill, I will start with the big issue, which has been affecting producers for many years, and they are illegal Greekisms. We have heard it many times and it is a complaint, which not only creates problems, but greatly reduces the profits and benefits of our producers. The way and methodology used in the past by the previous government did not work. Today rules are coming, disciplinary and administrative fines are being imposed, and I believe that with fines, which are so great now, one will not try to follow this process, which not only protects our producers but also protects consumers. Because illegal Greekisations are carried out in many ways, and with the introduction of other products that will be mixed, which are of low quality, or even products which are problematic for people's health. So this is in many directions and we therefore consider it to be a global and overall one that has been addressed to bring about real results. A second important issue is the strengthening of work with care, taken and given the opportunity to those who are in the seasonal unemployment fund in the summer to work in agricultural jobs. So we have two benefits: First we secure workers from Greece, from the local market, and at the same time we allow people, who are in the unemployment fund and get the allowance they have paid from the winter work and participate in the winter programs, again, in what is required to be written in the OAED. It's a very important measure. And when we say that we support work and secure jobs, such measures must be taken. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I'm also going to report to the ELGA, because there's an arrangement here to hire special associates, lawyers. But on the basis of this provision, I would like to refer to the ELGA, which deals with the Ministry and say that the real support of the farmer and the farmer is ELGA. That is why it must be modernized, have many people and ensure fair control of the catastrophes that occur in people, in our producers, and quickly pay compensation. During the coronary, we have all seen how difficult your work is to stop and lose, and we have all asked for state aid. This may happen to farmers and farmers every year because of weather. So how necessary is it that we be with them, recognise the damage they suffer and compensate them? In the next steps and in the next articles in the bill, I would like to make a brief mention, saying that if you want to support this sector, you need to be organised and the organisation is done with the Beekeeper Register, which already seems to be coming and will support this sector. There is also a database of all traders and egg producers and the last one, which I would like to say is very important: rural accounting, where the national committee is able to record production of livestock and plant production, the possibilities for standard crops and, in general, as a country, to have our orientation, in order to have the most possible benefits. And here I want to refer to western Macedonia, our region, and Kozani Prefecture, where it is currently running the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, which has two measures: One measure is called 'Cooperation' and concerns cooperation between farmers, who are proposing solutions for standard crops, environmental protection and quality products. The second measure provides for the financing of these proposals. We have had very good proposals, and once we want to take these steps, it is the opportunity to prove this by strengthening, Minister, this measure and with additional money to make those who meet the conditions, to give the opportunity to evacuate this sector. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the possibility, with this draft law, of transferring aid from the Ministry of Rural Development to the municipalities, because this is the first opportunity to support the farmer in the infrastructure projects and, secondly, to support him in his operation, because sometimes the dams and irrigation operate and are better maintained by the municipalities that are close to the citizen. It's a strategy that will really help. I want to say good at the Ministry that has caught all these areas, but by closing I want to say that both the farmer is afflicted in our country and the farmer. And you know that with a lot of difficulty he survives. Other steps must also be taken so that we have real results and real support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u190	The next speaker is Ms Vaguea - Kalaidoni from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mrs. Vaguena, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the recent health crisis we have once again seen how important the primary sector for our country's economy is. Greece has no other important resources, does not have a heavy industry capable of supporting its economy. It is largely based on service provision and tourism, a sector extremely vulnerable, as demonstrated by the pandemic. The primary sector is the most stable source of revenue for the Greek economy. And while our country has enormous potential for quality and quantity higher than any other country in Europe, because it is favoured by the only climate and the right soil, we still do not take advantage of them. So this bill comes to resolve some technical issues that may have been more substantiated by colleagues who spoke before me. In short, I will say that others were expecting farmers from the bill and others to come, while the government was very generous with other sectors of the economy in dealing with the effects of pandemic, for example with the media, in which - with total opacity and without even posting two months after the 'HUMANY' - the sums and recipients - shared 20 million euros, or with the scandalous supplies of sanitary material from local health regions, as well as with many other small and large examples, which have come to light and are still covered in the direct awards and acts of legislation through which the New Democracy has been governing these two and a half months of the health crisis. In these two and a half months, therefore, a lot of money was shared in "the left" and too many eagles benefited as usual from the difficult situation. While all this was done, farmers were usually given crustaceans, for example, the compensation of farmers for crop losses in Thessaly. In my region, in Larissa the crops of pears and cherries, particularly early, such as in the area of Tirnavos and Agia, were destroyed by the frost. The same has happened recently with cotton and grain from the hail in the areas of Platycampos and the Municipality of Killere. However, ELGA refuses to integrate them into the lands affected because of glacier, as was also the case last year with the destruction of the fruitage in the almonds in our prefecture. The same thing happened this year with the early cherries of Agia. I am referring to the ELGA, where Mr. Voridis wants to go to private individuals through partnerships. Think about what is then about compensation. Another example. The farmers in our area are rebellious. They've got a big problem. Here I will read a passage of the letter sent yesterday to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Voridis, the Foetal Association of the Municipality of Tirnavos: "Mr. Minister, bitterness, frustration and indignation are the emotions, which prevail with colleagues in the sector regarding the issue of exceptional financial support. And that's for two reasons. The first reason is the amount of this aid, namely EUR 23 million, as you yourself made it public by telephone and informally to the representatives of the TEC and the TEC. We believe that this amount to be allocated to thousands of farmers is a burden to the coefficients in the livestock sector. The second reason, Minister, that hurts us more and hurts us, is that we are seeing, for your part, an assimilation and a slowness in deciding on our financial support, while, on the other hand, we are seeing in other areas that you have shown reflexively and that you are taking rapid decisions. This practice, Mr Minister, may inadvertently break down our dignity and undermines us professionally and socially, and we state this in the most unequivocal way." I'll file the club's letter in the Minutes. At a critical point in time, which we have not yet seen any substantial support for farmers and farmers, there is a bill dealing most with administrative and bureaucratic procedures, and more important provisions such as the protection of PDOs, for example, are simply in line with the European regulation and even in time. We welcome the amendment, which resolves the issue of the lack of workers' hands in the field, which was tabled following the labelling of SYRIZA colleagues in the committee responsible. But where is the development of an overall agricultural policy that modernises the agricultural sector and creates the conditions for maximum functionality and efficiency? The same title of the bill contains the words 'upgrade' and'modernisation' and believe me, I would be happy to welcome these innovative provisions that we promise, because I know very well how much they will help our farmers. But I searched them in vain in the text of the bill and I didn't find them. I believe that the funding of the support programme for the agricultural sector with national resources of 150 million, announced by the government, is not capable of meeting the real needs of the sector. What distinguishes the political management of the crisis in the agricultural sector from the government to date is fragmentation, procrastination and the lack of a comprehensive strategy aimed at the needs and problems of farmers. We as SYRIZA with the program "We Stay Upright" propose costly measures that support farmers' incomes and shield the sustainability of the agricultural sector. In conclusion, I should like to refer to our efforts to create a National Farm Movement Museum in Killere, a subject which, unfortunately, has once again eroded. Personally, with my small powers, I raised this issue and managed to obtain funding for updating the old study, which has been inactive for twenty years. I hope that there will be no further twenty years to make use of it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Pericles Mandasse has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the koruna of today's bill that we are voting on is the provision on the stricterisation of illegal Greekizations. As far as I understand from yesterday's debate and today's debate is a point that all the wings agree. However, which is a point on which all the wings agree, I can see from yesterday's Qualified Opposition looking to find this little element that should be identified within the bill to create a story of political controversy, to hit the bill, to hit the government's strategy. And I wonder: Is that really the essence we are discussing today? Questions are clear and simple. Do illegal Greeks mislead the consumer? He's being misled. Does illegal Greekism strengthen unfair competition in the primary sector? Do illegal Greekism ultimately undermine the producer's income? So if we agree on what is the basics, then where is the disagreement? Where is the disagreement on the strictness of penalties? Where is the disagreement on the publication of such actions by those undertakings and the consumer to know? You are afflicting us and criticising us that we are simply introducing Community Directive 625/2017 into Greek law on illegal Greekisations. Note: 2017. By 2019, why didn't you bring her this directive, since you agree? Why didn't you introduce it into Greek Law? What were the interests you protected? The interests of the farmer or private interests? You, the left government, have protected the interests of the farmer when you have not incorporated this directive into national law? What did you do? You're talking about the National Beekeeping Registry and you're saying it's something simple. Looking a little bit on the Internet yesterday I find that the Greek Apiculture Associations Federation has been calling for the creation of a national register since 2011. What did people want to do? They wanted to modernise their profession, modernize, get into new procedures. What else did they want? To have a better organisation, activation and more efficient operation of the control mechanisms. How would that be if there wasn't an electronic record? What did people want to do actually? To support their income, to be able to see who is really the producer of honey and who is not, to protect themselves from the Hellenisms, all that we are discussing. Since 2011 they've been asking for it. Don't all of you - those of you - who at least are from rural areas - say that in recent years the producers have not come and told you that 'we can't find workers working in our fields, we can't find workers lawful to be able to catch up with them.' Didn't you all deal with it? Do you disagree with the provisions on unemployment benefit, that is to say, the unemployed who receive an allowance, who can work in the fields? Do you disagree with that? Isn't the income of the unemployed being strengthened? If you want my personal opinion, I wish this provision could be done in other sectors of the economy, to subsidise employment rather than unemployment, to subsidise people to be able to work and not sit at home and get unemployment benefits. That's what we need to plan. Of course we have lived the policy of SYRIZA, the creation of an army of privileged unemployed, sitting at home and taking money and glorifying the king. But that's it. Do you disagree with the right of a pensioner to be able to grow his land, continue to grow it? Do you disagree with that? Who can disagree? Do you disagree with the retired farmer who has worked for all these years to be able to go to his field to cultivate and not to have the fear of a fine of EUR 10,500? Do you disagree with the possibility of citizens of third countries being able to work as land workers with a bachelor? All this will solve an important problem. These are important provisions. This bill is trying to solve problems and it will solve them, and that is why we need congratulations both to Mr Vorides and to his group. In conclusion, however, I should like to say a few words about the Messinia, Minister. In the Messinia we have a very important problem that has arisen with the heat in recent days. And because we talked about the ELGA before and because I've heard things about the ELGA, I mean it's a useful tool, it's a critical ally of our farmers all these years. It is a critical ally, because the ELGA has helped many farmers to rely on, to stand on their feet after significant disasters and we must not deceive the work that it has done. Do changes in the regulation need to be made? Yeah, maybe they do. There is climate change. I do not remember in the Messinia heat on May 5th in the last twenty-five years. And when we're talking about heat, we're talking about 42 degrees Celsius. Unfortunately, on 5 May the olive is in the flowering in most areas and in other areas it is in the water. There are specific provisions. But it is a problem and I am glad that the Minister is aware of it and the President of the ELGA is trying to find a solution, because that is how it should be done. We also need to find a solution, Minister, for our compatriot potato producers, who - badly lying - are facing a serious problem. There may be no possibility of compensation from ELGA because quality is fine, but there is the problem of price. The producer can't sell the Greek potato 25 minutes and reach the shelf 1.25. Something's going on. We need to see everything. And I am glad that you are in the mood to solve all this and to find a way to strengthen them. We still need to take care of the Trinity. The second greenhouse centre in the country has been set up, Minister, with great growth, with strong businesses, innovative ones. At this time tomato greenhouses are facing a serious problem. There is a disease that has affected them and is threatening a great deal of destruction, a business disaster, beyond production. Of course, we must also complete the commitment you have made - and I thank you for that - to restructure the fig in Messinia, which is a great crop with a long history. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the development of farmers to professional farmers, I believe, is going through their continuing and continuing education. That's where we all have to go. The land in Greece grew generations and generations of Greeks. She's intertwined with history, with our culture, with our everyday life. We must support it and all of us, from where we can and as much as we can, give it new momentum, because Greece has always turned to farmers in the primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u194	Next speaker, Ms. Biziu Stergiani, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector will become a key pillar of our country's economic reconstruction. This commitment has been made by our government. This commitment is made every day by the Ministry of Rural Development. The comparative advantages of the Greek primary sector generally have excellent potential for use. Generally speaking, too, over time there are obstacles to taking advantage of these advantages. The bureaucracy, the lack of administrative flexibility and the distortions which are afflicting the producer and taking away time and energy, of course do not favour growth and competitiveness. Today's bill bears the title 'Enhancement and modernisation', and that is precisely it. In order to strengthen and liberalise the production process, it is important to resolve the existing problems. I am saying this because, unfortunately, I heard from the opposition that this bill does not have a vision. Visions must certainly have the governments, but without streamlining the procedures, they cannot achieve them. To sow - I dare use an example of the industry - you must first clean up your field. To claim that this bill does not introduce innovations is also unfair and micropolitical. I would like to refer to one of the many crucial issues that we are negotiating, the illegal Greek products. One of the advantages of Greek products is their high quality, and for this quality it is well known and competitive in international markets. The brand name of the Greek products has been built on their quality and excellent nutritional value. Some of them are the basis of the Mediterranean food which enjoys international recognition and assessment by all its specialists. This is also the stake that comes to protect today's bill. Products of protected designation of origin and products of protected geographical indication are our most powerful comparative advantage in a highly competitive international environment and contribute to the creation of added value. Greece today has more than 100 products of protected designation of origin and products of protected geographical indication in a total of three hundred fifty products at a pan-European level. The trend on the food market in both Greece and the European Union is high-quality products and this trend is expected to expand at a high rate of growth. This advantage is provided by Greek products, and that explains why the phenomenon of Hellenism is so intense. It is our duty to preserve them at all costs. Illegal Greekism of agricultural products is a chronic problem which damages the income of the Greek producer, as every year tons of agricultural products from outside the European Union are moved to the Greek market, bearing Greek identity. The entire industry from production to processing is damaged by illegal Greekisations. When the illegally Greekized products circulate in the countries of the European Union and in general abroad, in addition to the economic damage, the credibility of Greek products as a whole is affected, since the lowest quality is charged to Greece and not to the real country of origin. The term "Greek" adds goodwill to a product and we protect this goodwill and thus protect the income of the Greek producer and entrepreneur. Illegal Greekisations affect not only the producer or processor but also the consumer, since these products are sold at a price of Greek product, but in fact this price does not correspond to their quality. Of course, this practice also poses risks to public health, since we do not know where these products come from, in which conditions have been cultivated, what medicines have been used. For the first time, we are legislating a strict framework of penalties that reaches up to five years in prison and a fine of EUR 300,000, which can reach or exceed EUR 600,000 when the company's turnover exceeds EUR 10 million. Penalties under certain conditions shall reach a withdrawal of the licence. Strict penalties are only one of our weapons in the war against illegal Hellenism. Strict checks for the implementation of the law are the other. And in this field we have shown that we are determined to impose new customs, customs of legality. During the Easter period, the economic police, the relevant ministries carried out unprecedented checks to protect the Greek farmer from the illegal Greekisation of ovine and caprine animals. Here, Minister, allow me to make a few further remarks which I consider to be important. Firstly, it is crucial that there is an institutional framework of penalties and fines that will call out in every direction our determination to protect Greek products. However, I believe that this should be combined with prevention, that is to say, a procedure that prevents illegality. We could, Minister, draw up a modern information campaign so that everyone could understand the importance of our project. In addressing the previous leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, I ask SYRIZA's colleagues: is it true, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry made 6 million euros available to ELGO - DIMITRA for the promotion and promotion of feta? Is it also true that the same amount, namely an additional EUR 6 million, was allocated to the Interprofessional Meat to support the product? Where did these amounts finally go? How were they used? Through what procedures and what results did the actions carried out using them produce? You must inform Parliament and expect your answers with interest. Secondly, I would like to take note of you, Minister, of the important role that they can and must play in the process of informing - and not only - the interbranch organisations that you have upgraded yourself. We must - and it would be useful - activate them in this direction too. The agri-food sector has all the conditions to remain one of the main levers of the country's development, despite any transformations and influences on the Greek economy, such as the one we now have because of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill that solves years of problems in the rural world and this is due to the determination, effectiveness and vision of the Ministry's leadership. The current bill is, in fact, aimed at the upgrading of production, with a focus on the high added value of the only Greek products. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. The next speaker is George Kotsos from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today we are talking about a structural pillar of our country, the primary sector, the agri-food sector, which also plays a decisive role in the creation of our country's gross national product, but mainly affects a very large, spatially and also population-based, area. In particular, at this time when another structural pillar of our country is affected, tourism is more than ever necessary to support, develop and structure our economic and productive mix, based on the primary sector. The primary sector keeps live modern Thermopylae alive, because it refers to farmers, our farmers, who are mainly developing their action on mainland Greece, where the bloodshed is extremely intense and we are in the real danger of mourning lost homelands in our country, because it simply cannot satisfy the vital needs of the people who live there. Therefore, restructuring of this area is needed, support for this area is needed and, above all, we need to convert our farmer and our farm from a farm to a farm, from a producer, a businessman, a processor, to a processor, to make use of the added value of the products he produces, which are currently exported to third countries, without a treatment to then import them at multiple prices and thus spend on the economy of our country. To tell you characteristics for cotton, about EUR 500 to 700 million is collected from the export of cotton annually and we spend several amounts annually to import processed cotton products, such as fibres and textiles. And since we are talking about the agri-food sector, it is important to invest in clean and fair food. And when I say clean and fair food, I am referring to producing food that is free from inflows, which are free of pesticides, which are fertilizers, which are quality foods, and which find good soil at a high economic level, that is pure food. It is a fair food that produces and gives the producer the maximum benefit and reaches the final consumer at the minimum cost. And this will happen if we get out of the interim procedure - from the producer to the consumer - all those who so far earn most of the money, making use of the trouble and anxiety of the people who produce it, but also reaching the final consumer an expensive product. I feel that the bill that comes, Minister, makes the revolution of self-evident, because it is self-evidently many of the issues that have been resolved through this process, which have so far not been resolved. Farmer's licenses: I've lived all their size as mayor. Complexity, difficulties, often different explanations of the legislative framework from the central services of the ministries, a different explanation from the regional services. As a result, the farmer was troubled, and above all we, who wanted to make local planning as local authorities, do not have that possibility. We were confronted, in other words, with issues relating to the interpretation of the law too many times, with the result in particular that our farmers, who you know, are one of the most conservative professional groups, cannot understand this process and this issue. I think that in this process, through financing local spatial plans, we can establish a local territorial constitution so that we can also define certain zones, either for the development of livestock farming, for the development of energy, for the photovoltaics in this regard, or for the development of the rural economy. I am convinced that, through this process, we will be able to escape the sloppy stacking facilities that so far dominate and move on to authorised statistic facilities and modern livestock units. Hellenism is another matter that was not solved until before and where the current bill comes in to give an answer. The dead animals, the reproach for all of us, a dangerous issue. Many times either the small ones found them in the dumpsters of the municipalities or in the ravines, and most of the expressors of local government are faced with justice, because there were these kinds of issues that come in today's bill to solve. To express my satisfaction at the increase in the LEADER budget, a flexible serious programme of rural tourism, but also to strengthen entrepreneurship in the region, which gives the possibility of new jobs, through the Bottom-up process, under way, to strengthen the people living in the countryside. One final comment. It is true that the agricultural sector, without water, does not exist. If we do not guarantee water resources and we do not respond to the problem of water shortages, particularly in Thessaly, you must be sure that a piece of productive and rich up to a certain point, especially in eastern Thessaly, will be devastated, because the dehydration of water, due to the humiliation of the watercourse, is at tragic points - and even without the exploitation of the waters of Acheloos, where we really need to overcome the turbulences of the past - we must give an answer to this whole process. And, of course, I would also welcome the regulation that is being put in place through the draft legislation on TWGs, the Local Improvements Organisations, where the institutional framework governing them is '56 if I am not deceived by a royal decree is governed, most of them are still still still in force and remain on the substance of intensive work. It is right, therefore, to involve the whole process and local and regional authorities, because I am sure that they also have to contribute to the proper management of water resources and to the realisation of the necessary projects, which require closed networks, drainage networks, etc., but above all to the economic restructuring of the TWGs, for the benefit of the final producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Andrianos Ioannis, the last speaker from yesterday's list. Minister, when do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u199	After Mr. Andriano, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u200	Good. Come on, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill, which brings about many important positive changes in the development of primary production in our country. It is a bill that corrects errors, covers gaps, creates useful institutional tools and enhances the effectiveness of the support policies of the Greek producer, updating existing regulations and provisions. This is of particular importance, which, beyond the well-known and serious problems facing our producers, such as high production costs, low producer prices - such as olive oil this year and olive oil, and I would like to point out, Minister, the injustice, distortion - we have other unacceptable products that are traded in these products. For example, the producer sells the olive oil with the pound, while the consumer reaches the consumer as a litre. So the consumer buys 1 litres, but the producer sells a kilo. So the difference of litres and pounds, someone's plucking it, of course, not the producer. It's a question you should see. Also, another injustice that I think you should see and I want to point out is that the producer sells extra virgin olive oil. We know well that the extra virgin is what has up to eight lines of acidity. But we see different values at four, five lines, while it's extra virgin up to eight lines. Evidently some buy not extra virgin olive oil, but virgin olive oil and mix it, dropping the average acidity and apparently fruited as well. You need to see it because this whole system is at the expense of producers. In addition, farmers have to deal with ever more frequent changes, as a result of climate change. The coronary pandemic has also been added to the new burdens, as of course many professional groups have been charged throughout the country, throughout society, such as tourism, focusing. I am referring, for example, to the problem created by producers selling their products on the people's markets, outside the prefecture of production, in another region and were severely affected and asymmetrically by the pandemic restrictive measures, as is the case in Argolida, for example. This is an important issue that we have raised and I would like to highlight. It is your honour that you have given solutions to these producers, you have beennd over these producers and you have already announced 14 million euros, a commitment of an important amount, for compensation to these citizens, to producers selling products on the people's markets. It is your honour, because you fell into a problem, it was an injustice that is corrected and from what you have informed us is about 1,500 euros to each producer. You also support - within the possibilities available - farmers with 4 euros per animal, as well as the damage suffered by flower producers, as in Argolida we have such important producers. You have already announced that 2,500 euros will be compensated for the acre those who produce flowers in greenhouses and 1,250 euros per acre those who produce outdoors. In particular, I would like to focus on the provisions of the draft law to strengthen measures to deal with Greekism and tighten up the penalties involved, a problem which is particularly affecting Greek producers and its decisive approach should be for all of us a matter of absolute priority. It is true that with the current provisions, the phenomena of Hellenism are not punished criminally and thus our producers, in addition to unfair competition that they were facing, not only unprotected, but also unfair. We heard the evidence you and Mr. Skrekas submitted to increase production by 20% on the feta of the previous period, during the period that SYRIZA was in the country's governance, while we had a reduction of 50 million litres in milk production and we had a reduction in producer prices from 96 minutes that had the kilo under 80 kilograms. With regard to animal husbandry in addition to the above mentioned, it is important to extend the deadline for establishments, but also to facilitate provision for the management plans for grazing, for the programme for the collection and management of dead animals, for the recognition of professional schools of meat, and in particular for the arrangements for veterinary medicinal products. The forecasts for fisheries and aquaculture that rationalise the existing framework also serve the two main objectives on the one hand economic development and on the other hand the environmental sustainability of this most important natural resource for our country are of particular importance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to focus on setting up the National Beekeeping Register, a new institutional tool aimed at establishing a single system for recording, recording and identifying all beekeepers and the apiculture capital of the country. This is an important step towards dealing with both the Greekisations of honey and the effectiveness of policies to protect the beekeeping capital. Finally, I want to focus on the arrangements for further reinforcement of the ELGA with legal staff. This is a move in the right direction, as the Agency's needs are constantly growing and we need to move, Minister, to greater staffing by experts, to a greater number of assessors, because they are necessary for a rapid assessment of the damage that is increasing due to climate change. In May we had the extraordinary conditions with the heater and, as you know, the fruiting in olive trees or oranges, in citrus fruits had a problem. But even some time ago because of the frost, in April, the varnishes did not boast, so producers now face the spectrum of the very great loss of incomes, so it is necessary to provide adequate staff for the ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u202	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, primary production, agriculture, livestock - we must also change the regulation - must be updated, we must look at new diseases and the effects of climate change. The primary production, therefore, of agriculture, livestock, fisheries and beekeeping is the backbone of the national economy and social cohesion. The prospect of the development of primary production is therefore a prerequisite for the survival of the Greek region, and the pandemic crisis has shown this to be emphatic. The more we strengthen the diversity of our production model, for example, the more we strengthen the interconnection of primary production with processing, tourism - which this year is particularly affected by the pandemic - the more we will shield our national economy as a whole, but also individual local economies from the shocks involved. In this sense, therefore, pandemic is, among other things, an opportunity to implement all the necessary changes and reforms that will allow for this more systematic and effective use of the many and important comparative advantages of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u205	Already our economy, in all sub-sectors, has shown adaptability in the face of new conditions and needs. So this is the creative power of the Greeks and Greeks in agricultural production, as in other important economic sectors we must recognise it, encourage it and strengthen it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Andriane, I've been telling you for the third time, please complete. You've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u207	I shall conclude, Mr President. With the most important European funds provided by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis for the country, with the effectiveness that he has shown so far in dealing with the consequences of the pandemic crisis, with the institutional changes and reforms that are being promoted in every field of public life, we support the primary sector and we do our duty, what we need to do and do all the political forces of the country. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u208	We didn't close the first list very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like to speak on legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u210	Wait a minute, Mr. Red. I said that I would give Mr Hatzidakis the floor to develop the amendment. After Mr Hatzidakis I will give you the floor, you have asked the Bureau for some clarifications about the legislative improvements which Mr Vorides has put forward. Mr. Hatzidakis will be ahead of you right away. Here, Mr Hatzidakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled five co-legislative ministers, an amendment for the reorganisation of Coronea Lake. Cornelia has been a major problem for many years, essentially since 1995. There is an environmental burden, there is a matter of waste, there is a subject in general with the landscape, with the perspective of Lake Coronia. Unfortunately, for many years we have been involved with the European Union. We are condemned in 2011 and despite the efforts and before and after dealing with the issue, by different governments I have to say, the issue remains open and it is now open with the European Commission. And our government has tried to deal with it, it has given money from the Green Fund and now in the last few days the bulldozers of the region of Central Macedonia have been trying to do work in the so-called 'United States' to get more water into the lake. But don't be fooled all these months I've been at the Ministry, I realized that this work will be a silencing job if it doesn't change the method by which we approach it. Those who do not deal with the issue should be aware that for Cornea, only for Cornea, they are engaged in about thirty agencies, different ministries, decentralised, region, Local Government, first and second grades. In any case, there is a Cylon, there can be no coordination. One after all unwittingly, because everyone wants to solve the matter, prevents the other. There is no central direction and we must address the issue in its entirety. As a matter of priority, a matter to which I have already referred, but not with emblematic solutions, must be addressed. We must address the issue of biological cleansing - a big issue! - because the issue of biological cleansing has not been addressed around the lake, and therefore any cleansing and upgrading of the lake is being done in vain. We also need to address the issue, in relation to the agricultural sector, in relation to mountainous hydronomy, as it is said, dams and, more generally, irrigation, in harmony with the protection of the lake and the environment as a whole. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] That is why, in order not to have a silencing task and to stop the fragmentation that exists for so many years, we do something simple, I believe, but necessary. There is now one body in charge and this body is the Ministry of the Environment and Energy - not because we do not have powers and we want to take more - because we are accountable to the European Union. As we are accountable to the European Union, for reasons of self-evidentity, it has been agreed at government level at the Ministry of the Environment that all responsibilities should be assigned to the Ministry of the Environment, in relation to the management of Lake Cornelia, to equip the Ministry of the Environment within the framework of Union and national law with all those tools, in order to make progress in the procedures and projects and also to establish a special coordinator, who - as they used to say in the army - will be "hardened" to 108" this case, will have it in the morning, at noon, at night, will do nothing else, with a small team, in order to have a specific project. Theories are enough, wandering from office to office now arrives. We think we should go to a simpler management model with a view to achieving results. Because without result, the intentions have no meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u212	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We must now give the floor first to Mr Famello and then to Mrs Manolakou to ask the Minister about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for some time now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u214	To ask the Minister about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u215	No, for my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u216	As a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u218	I think that there is a precedent for the amendment and Members' questions from Parliament's groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u219	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u220	You, as a parliamentarian, will take the floor as planned. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor. It is a good request to be brief because you know very well that the list of speakers is a great one and we have not started yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u221	I know, Mr. President. In any case, I referred to this yesterday in my speech. I do not know whether the Minister had the opportunity to read the Minutes or whether his colleagues have informed him. It is true that for the last four days you have announced a press release and you have been on many channels - you are used to that by all the ministers, who have been very hosting you - on the issue of Coronea. We hadn't seen the amendment. It's a good thing you've been bringing her in for the last minute. You're at least consistent with this. But I would like to ask, Minister, just specific things. I see in the amended provisions that you are amending, two weeks after the vote, Mr L.4685. So I would like you to tell me - your report says so - whether that is effective. I also see that you are abolishing Rule 42 of Law 4685 and I would also like to ask the Members of the New Democracy if that is effective, two weeks after it was voted on. You refer to the project ‘Environmental restoration of Lake Coronas’. I do not see the signature of another co-legislator, perhaps it was not necessary, but I wanted to ask you this: do you know that the Greek state has submitted a file on the completion of this work in the European Union and on what point is the discussion with the European Commission to say that the project is not complete and therefore other actions are needed? And if other steps are needed, please, Minister, to tell us what the projects are which are planned to be carried out, and the need for this amendment therefore arises. Second question: I would like you to inform us which body of the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for this amendment, namely what service is being entrusted to overseeing this work, but I would ask you in particular. For I would like to remind you that you have abolished the Special Secretariat for Waters, you have limited the responsibilities of the Biodiversity Directorate - but, Mr Hatzidakis, you are speaking with Mr Vorides and you are not following me well, it is a small question - you have abolished the management bodies of protected areas and you have established the OFYPEKA, a parallel body that has no such responsibilities. So please tell me which service it will be responsible for knowing where to go. Third question. I see here the announcement by Mr Karaoglou and Mr Araxis on 1 October 2019, which referred to four direct actions for Lake Coronea. I would therefore like you to answer explicitly whether Mr Karaoglou's initiative and Mr Arabis has failed and therefore you are now taking responsibility. Next question. We would like you to tell us if Mr Karaoglou's announcement is false two days ago that the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace is taking over the Cornelia project and will even oversee the working conditions. I have relevant reports, and I've submitted them to you. Also - next question - has it failed to clean up the projects of the Region of Central Macedonia and you are withdrawing your trust in Mr Djijkosta and taking this responsibility to the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Femmelle, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u223	Has the municipality of Lagada failed to operate and you are taking responsibility for it? As far as the projects that are currently being discussed are concerned, I would like you to tell me whether you are going to take the responsibility of carrying out the biological cleansing projects that were adopted on our own initiative in the National Lyon Plan and that were included - and you know them very well - in the case of Kavalari and other areas, which are on the perimeter of the lake. I think there's something like that in Assyro. Also, since Mr. Voridis is here, I'd like to know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u224	No, no, don't expand. Is it for the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u225	It's for the amendment. I would therefore like to know whether the Ministry of Rural Development is unable to cope with the irrigation works of lakes and irrigation works, as stated, and therefore you are taking this responsibility and if he knows that Mr Vorides has signed this, because only in the front of both of you can that be answered. With regard to the work of the coastal engineering - Mr Hatzidakis, this is very critical - you say that you are taking responsibility from the Ministry of Finance for managing the lake's sanctuary and you are even talking about the concession of the saint. So I want you to tell us very clearly: what is the work that requires the concession of the lake's saint and therefore you are taking the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance? What is missing, as far as the Coronea Lake's master plan is concerned? Because this, you know, after being filed in the Greek Parliament, also affects the criticism and judgment of the European Court of Justice against the Greek state. However, I think the question is clear: what are you going to do in the cavalry of the lake?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u226	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u227	Finally, I would like you to tell us what the task is for which a coordinator is required to cost from what I see EUR 40,000 a year if he is going to be Golden Boy, whether he will be one of your candidates, whose nomination you have cut in voting. Because you already announced a coordinator and I don't know if you're going to change him. Also, why do four additional staff need for a project, for which we have submitted a report to the European Commission that it has closed down? I would also like you to tell us why you are undoing the tender provisions and go to the award of services and works up to the threshold, if I am not mistaken, about EUR 140,000, which we see is described in the explanatory statement. I would also ask you why you are not going through tendering procedures for projects, and if you have found this amendment as a loophole to give more of your own people, since it is all you are used to doing as a government because we have not yet seen strategy for the environment or rural development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u228	Good. Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u229	However, what we most need you to tell us, and we are particularly interested in, is the work that this amendment must support. If the Greek Parliament realizes that you have brought us an amendment for a coordinator, your own child, four employees and more assignments without knowing the work for Lake Cornelia, it will be a bad time for the Greek Parliament and for your own personal history.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u230	Good. Is there another Member of Parliament who would like to address the Minister with regard to the amendment? For the Minister to pick up the questions and answer them. Mrs Manolakou, a special speaker from the Communist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u231	Indeed, the Cornelia Lake emits SOS. However, the amendment does not seem to solve precisely these major and many problems. I would therefore like to ask you this: in Article 1, paragraph 3, why are you going to direct assignments or to a concise tender? I mean, it seems like you've already given it. In Article 2, you are talking about legislative improvements. It's just not legal. It is essential, since in the first paragraph you seem not to want and you are making representatives of the region and of the municipalities. In paragraph 2 you are effectively abolishing - and we ask you why - the other actions - agricultural, tourism and so on. - to the lake. Article 3 is an amendment to the recent law that you have passed. But it looks like you're taking powers away from municipalities. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u232	Good. Minister, you have the floor and, obviously, a tolerance of time, because the questions were enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, there is always room for one to be surprised. It's good. Because our lives are getting more interesting. I would like to say that from this point of view I was replying a few months ago to Mr Famello's question just about Lake Cornelia. What are we going to do in Cornelia? Why is there a problem in Cornelia? What is the design with Coronia etc. If I understood it correctly, Mr Famelos previously implied that almost everything was going well and we were going to the right place to cause a problem for Cornelia. Let's fix a problem for which all the Greek governments are co-responsible. I was clear before. I said there were attempts made by everyone. I'm not cutting any effort. However, this has not been solved. And that is why it is no secret that the issue is open to the European Union. If I go with today's speeds, I'm just going to give you the right in a few months to come and tell me that I did it the same and worse with you. I don't want to give you that right, Mr. Famele. I'm so sorry. I won't give it to you. So we move on to the path of common sense. The ministry, which is also accountable to the European Union, is now officially responsible for all the policies that are going to take place in Lake Cornelia. And from there on, all the rest is very simple and clear within the directive. I don't know where you got the forty grand? You could, of course, say eighty and a hundred grand. You don't have any hams anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u234	The amendment writes it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u235	Others you see are reading. In any case, what I'm telling you is that we're going to a coordination to speed up the work. Those projects shall be carried out within the framework of Union law and national law. The competitions mentioned by Mrs Manolakou and the awards are precisely because it enables us to go up to EUR 139 000. This is not even the first time that this has been the last of Greek governments. It is because of the special circumstances and is done throughout the European Union. I also want to tell you that the officials to whom reference was made are not new employees, they are seconded by other agencies. Therefore, they do not give rise to any burden. A cherry on the cake in relation to the alleged burden. Don't rush. Because I myself have previously appointed coordinators for such cases, who have not cost a single euro to the public. So I would say this impatientness to draw conclusions I think it is not very helpful to you. This amendment is self-evident. This amendment solves issues. You haven't solved them, Mr. Famele, as Minister, even though you're from there. We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u236	I would like to submit a document.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u237	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u238	I am tabling the special report, which has been signed by Mr Stavoura and Mr Hatzidakis, which provides and explicitly sign EUR 40,600 as the cost of a special coordinator. I put it before you because we cannot believe your signature, Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u239	Obviously, it is also included in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u240	Apparently, to create impressions. In gross costs and total costs there is a certain wage, which is less than EUR 2 000. Make multiplications, see what it is. I also told you not to be in a hurry, because the coordinator may not cost a single euro. What will remain, Mr Famelle, is your lies on the one hand and our work on the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u241	Such a liar, Mr. Hatidakis! Your signature at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u242	Mr Kokalis, you have asked for the floor, to ask for some clarification as to the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister for Rural Development. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u243	I will, Mr President. Minister, as far as Article 29 is concerned, I think you only partially accepted the request and put the condition on harmful products. I want to ask the MPs of the co-population...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u244	Not the MPs. Mr. Red, please, not the MPs. Because they will ask for the floor for the Members to answer. You're asking the Minister the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u245	Minister, the total crime of fraud, why should it be made more urgent? It was three months and a penalty and now it says 'three months or a penalty'. Fraud leads to deception. The one who distorts the milk Romanian with the Greek, sunflower oil with the seed oil, can only be punished with a financial penalty of EUR 360 and the one who is misleading two years? I think you will accept it, because fraud is the main means of misleading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u246	Is that all you wanted, Mr. Red?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u247	That's it, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u248	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u249	I'll see, Mr. President. All I want to say is that because this amendment has been added, which is from another Ministry, we have to add - and we add it - the phrase in the draft law 'and other provisions'. Therefore, it is only legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are starting with speakers from the new list now, namely the debate in question, with the first speaker, Alexopoulou Christina, from New Democracy. As I see messages coming for intervention by the parliamentary representatives, I propose, if you like, that we go, in other words, a parliamentary representative - two to three Members. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everything in order! This comes first of all to my mind by reading the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development. Once again, then, we see a comprehensive effort by the government to put order in an area with many influxes and similarly many outflows. The gaps, shortcomings or divergences from European agricultural legislation are now entering a single settlement framework. The management of these issues is vital, both for the people of the countryside and for our national economy. Most of us inherited from the previous government, but they are the result of bureaucratic claws. Thus, the undertaking by the Minister, Mr Vorides, and his staff, of course, at the Ministry, in the limited time that they had in the middle of a pandemic, can only be described as remarkable. A bill of lameness described it as the Opposition. It is not fair, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion. There has been criticism of the fact that farmers need to hear reports of the replacement of their lost incomes and not of general legislation. But how is it possible to try with fragmentary interventions to solve problems without having assembled a stable legislative framework? Or should we go into the logic of subsidised policy, so that we can win votes? No, ladies and gentlemen. We do not go into that logic. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis builds "buildings" on solid foundations. Such a "building" is also this draft law. With strong legal personality, obviously due to the Minister's status, the text contains provisions of earlier laws that have been amended and newly adapted to modern needs. These regulate the functioning of the agricultural sector, release processes that were stuck in bureaucratic gears, and equally important is that they protect markets. In this respect, the creation of the National Beekeeping Registry and the establishment of an identity card for beekeepers is considered particularly important. Through this it is expected to enter order in the sensitive area of beekeeping, with extensions to the economy and the environment. In the same context, the establishment of points of sale and prescribing officers for veterinary medicinal products should stop immunity and unfair competition on the market, both protecting animals and public health. At the same time, the integration of operators for the production and marketing of eggs into the base ‘ARTEMIS’ can control and prevent market distortions, mainly due to unfair practices such as the Greekisation of products. And now, speaking of Hellenism, the tightening up of fines and sanctions for any such phenomenon is expected to reduce the scourge, which in recent years has taken uncontrollable proportions. I imagine, of course, that we all understand that the problem of times is not solved by some magical solutions, but by hard work and systematic work. In the case of this draft law, with tools for expanding the use of information systems and for intensifying controls, the first results can be shown in a short time. And yes, the opposition is right when it says that we need to strengthen the control mechanisms. We already know that. We wonder why they didn't, and we're here to do it. Of course, the problems of farmers, farmers and other people in the country are many and unforeseen. I am thinking above all of something that concerns my own constituency, Achaea, and I know it personally with all the farmers. We're dealing with the potato problem. Because of pandemic, the sale price fell sharply and became disproportionate to its costs. And as if that were not enough, the heat of the last few days that we have been discussing earlier, Mr Minister, has caused great problems in olives, with olive growers worrying about the quality and hence the price of the sale of the oil they will produce. So how and when will these people be compensated if there is no central recording system in which the damage is recorded or the illegal Greekisation is not struck and foreign oil continues to be sold as Greek? The institutional basis for resolving such problems each year and speeding up procedures creates today's bill. The Ministry of Rural Development, in addition to the two amendments, is ready to make any further corrective action it needs in the interests of the agricultural sector. I therefore propose that we put aside our prejudices and give the draft law the time needed to bear fruit before we start accusing it as ineffective, short-sighted or what has been heard. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty of all of us is to offer Greek society the best. The government does not act opportunely. It sets strong foundations where it considers they're corrupted. With the ballot on hand, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is currently laying the foundations for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector. Its desire is to protect primary production and its people, to create incentives to employ the new Greeks and Greeks with this guarantee of the proper production of agricultural products. And all this with a direct benefit to the economy of the country, through an increase in the share of agricultural production and the Gross National Product. In view of the fact that the directly concerned entities that gave their opinion on the drafting of this draft law agree with the majority of the provisions, what is the real reason why we should not vote in favour of this draft law? I'm leaving it to your judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mrs. Catherine Papanatziou has the floor from SYRIZA, and then the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Heitas, will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we did not see the ultimate state of excellence responding quickly and effectively to the consequences of the pandemic on agricultural income. The cooperatives have remained without the support of the special-purpose compensation, though the members of the cooperative undertakings have remained unawares of the specific-purpose compensation. In addition, dozens of farmers who provide work to women’s cooperatives have not been included in your aid. Through parliamentary control, we had informed you in good time about the problems, but it was probably not of interest to you to resolve this. Why is that? Who will compensate women's rural tourist businesses with accommodations that have been forced to shut down, if not the state? What steps have you taken to protect the income of ovine and caprine animals who have seen the selling prices of meat during the Easter period besieged? This has also helped the reckless statements of government officials. The EUR 24 million you have calculated is too little to cover the gap created in livestock income, Minister. Even these, however, one and a half months after Easter, have remained empty words. The only agricultural sector you have decided to grant was fishing, but there only 50% of the fishermen have been subsidised, as you have excluded many of the CFPs. Will your Government deal with the multiple problems that have been presented to the industry? When will you tell us how to allocate the 150 million State aid to the agricultural sector? Will farmers be given back the 445 million returning from the European Union after the country has been justified by the European courts on the pasture issue? When judging by the decisions you have not taken since November 2019 for the oil producers who have been unfavourable due to the low oil prices, then we will have to wait for the collapse of ovine and caprine farming, fisheries, grassland producers and many other sectors of primary production. There, of course, is the change in the ELGA tariff without the completion of the necessary proportionate study and the necessary consultation with the producer bodies in order to take account of the specificities of products produced locally. The damaged by the hails production of apples at Zagora Pelion will see reduced compensation for high quality apples, "ZAGORIN", which we all know there is produced, in adverse conditions and at huge cultivation costs. You did not show them to be fully compensated for the hail damage last year, nor did you have the required number of appreciatives of the ELGA. We would expect more than the second bill you are tabling and even under the custodial title "to upgrade and modernise the agricultural sector". We do not see any long-term inspiring plan to tackle the problems and nuisances of the rural area, to upgrade and modernise it, let alone after the experience of the pandemic, to play an important role in the economy of the country. The multi-advertised provisions of Articles 27 and 29 are the application of the European Food Safety Regulation. It is neither innovation nor the government is charged with inspiration. However, your Government is required to implement the regulation in part, since it is not only the stricter application of the sanctions for Greekisations, fraud and food fraud, but also a number of actions relating to the operation of the control system that will find the offenders. It is not enough to introduce sanctions for fraud and fraud in food. There must also be an appropriate framework of controls to find the cases where this is happening. You have reduced all the control mechanisms. So proceed to the definition of one - and not four - of a competent inspection authority required by the Rules of Procedure, set out the principles to which the audits are to be entrusted and to the composition of the audit committees. Identify fraud in food and update the definition of fraud in food, as required by the regulation. Of course, we all expect to see the framework of the checks that you will introduce, as you are already in charge of entrusting private persons with the certification of PDOs and the annulment of the important legislative initiative of SYRIZA with regard to national measures in the milk sector, with the compulsory registration of the country of origin for all milk products and meat. The measures taken so far fall short of the needs created by the pandemic. The health crisis erupted the world-wide risk of agricultural production and disposal, highlighting the need to support the primary sector. Unfortunately, we don't see you taking the class. Final state from the old, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, and in the field of development. Sages from the memorandum are proposed by the Prime Minister for the planning of the development strategy and the European package. The primary sector must be the backbone of the Greek economy, the main body of support for Greek society against more fragile economic productive activities, so that the country and its citizens are better fortified the next day. Gentlemen of the government, you don't care. SYRIZA has given an integrated programme aimed at maintaining social cohesion and supporting production, economy and workers. Farmers, producers, fishermen and cooperatives are fully covered by the overall measures of 'We are standing'. Farmers and producers, as natural persons, are covered by both non-refundable aid and emergency income forecasts. The immediate measures of EUR 300 million announced by SYRIZA for the agricultural sector concern an additional amount to deal with the problems of the rural world, in addition to the horizontal measures mentioned above. You are deaf to the demands of the rural world, ladies and gentlemen, because you simply have no proposals. To co-formulate and discuss, but also to confront, proposals need to be made. We have and we place them in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiou. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your bill is very serious. You will allow me today, representing my party as a parliamentary representative, to address two, three very serious issues, in our view, in addition to your bill, issues that the Greeks and Greeks will find in front of them - and we will find them in front of us - very soon. The first issue, to which I shall refer, Mr Minister, Mr President, is Greek-Turkish relations and all that, unfortunately, will be followed in a short time from now. And we are very concerned not about what will come or about how the Turks move. We are very concerned about the way the Greek Government, the New Democracy Government, faces this whole situation. And here's the thing. I can only say to the Greek Parliament, to the National Representation, to our strong concern when we hear from the Director of the New Democracy Press Office that Greece has its allies, Greece has the International Law on its side, the Turks are isolated and that all of Erdogan is doing so to satisfy his internal clientele. These things are outrageous, because we should finally give the Greek people, the Greek citizens, to understand what is happening. It's a mistake all the history that our country has been following in recent years, Mr. Voridis - and the New Democracy in the past, PASOK, SYRIZA and you still - a process of submissiveness, a defensive tactic towards the provocative Turks. I've heard too much. Let us make it clear that we are alone, that Greece has no allies in this story. He can't have allies. International relations have no allies. There are interests. No one will ever hit Turkey or take our side, whether Europe or America, when half the companies in Turkey are European or German, if you want, of interest. There is no international law, Mr. Voridis. There is no international law. Turkey violates International Law three times a day. He's made it a rag. He's had wars, everything. Where should we go now? Is Turkey weak and twisted? Who Erdogan is weak and twisted? The one who had had three wars in the last year and a half? The one who has caught the European Union from the nose and drags it and gets millions of euros, billions of euros every year? Is this the crooked Erdogan? Let me get this straight. Not at all cramped. We must also stop this tale, in other words, saying that Turkey is unpredictable. Listen to something. Turkey is the most predictable opponent. He's so predictable, he announces what he will do and after he announces it, he goes into action. And we follow back by chasing our tail and chasing the developments, instead of us chasing the developments. And I'm going to end up somewhere in particular. We said the same thing about the Turkey- Libyan Pact, we mocked it, you deceived it and we hit the alarm. We had said how much about that story with Haftar and now that's invoking Turkey and creating a fair deal. And that's where he hits us, and he's cornered us. We thought we'd never go to The Hague. Now, listen: We will be dragged to The Hague and we will be beg at the end of the day to go because we are not invited anywhere. And all this is the result of the bad foreign policy that we are pursuing. And that's the truth. There must be truths in here at some point: this particular minister, for example, Minister for Foreign Affairs, does not do for this work, this philosophy that follows. We're done. You say, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that Turkey is doing what it does because it has financial problems, that Erdogan wants to disorientate the world, that it works in an introverted way for the public, etc. Can I tell you something? And it's not just me. They call them your MPs and, indeed, scientists, inter-ethnicists and go by and say. So, ladies and gentlemen, in view of you - and to the Greek people - that Erdogan's Turkey has invested 1 billion euros - a billion euros! - on seismographic ships. Do you have the illusion that these seismic ships, which have bought a billion, will leave them tied to her port? Obviously not. And if you don't believe me, says Mr. Syrigos, who is yours, that the Turks will be out for investigation in the next few weeks, probably in July. And here is the question, Mr Voridis, and Mr President: what will Greece do? He'll do whatever it takes. What is this "what you need"? What is this "what you need"? What are these damn red lines? Do we have them? We got 'em. Who are they? We should send a message, then, that this is how they enter Greek territorial waters, you plunged the ship. Let the Minister of Foreign Affairs say that the ship will sink. And it will be the message that we need to send to Turkey, because bad things are coming in July - you all know that very well - and we need to prepare! And you know why the bad things are coming? Because, Mr Voridis, no government has taken care of this country, our homeland, to preach an EEZ, and if not with others, alone, unilaterally and up there to build. It's our EOZ. Since the first day the Greek Solution entered the Greek Parliament, we are specifically shouting about AOZ. And we did it officially, dear Minister. A proposal for a Greek Solution Law was tabled on 14 January 2020, ‘Declaration of Exclusive Economic Zone unilaterally in the absence of agreement with neighbouring States’. Nothing. Here is the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. This is the explanatory statement. It's all deposited. The New Democracy whistles indifferently. Nothing! Cuveda! Why? This is a constructive opposition and an offer to the country and state. We have tabled a proposal for a law on AOZ proclamation and you are forging things indifferently. And do you know what the explanatory statement says? It's self-evident, Mr. Voridis. It doesn't say anything tragic. It says, therefore, that because we have nothing more to wait for, because the rest of the neighbouring states are reluctant to go along with us in bilateral EEZ agreements, if we do not want to support, with our passive attitude, the creation of stoned by Turkey at the expense of our rights, we must immediately activate these provisions. Because if we had done so, now we would have talked differently, Minister, and you know that very well. And he came today your own form, friends to you, the newspaper "TASE" and has a front page: "Attack with double EEZ. Strong background in the triangle of Athens - Rome - Cairo. It's been a couple of months to start. Your media writes these. I'll testify it together at the end. Mr President, I will also use my dentistry as I will not speak later. Thank you very much. I'm going to a huge subject that we'll find in front of us and we're not in danger. We are now facing the alarm at 10 and there is a serious response to these issues. What are our red lines? Immediate declaration of EEZ and know that these gentlemen know that the ship - which will take it out - will sink into Greek sea waters. To be heard from here and get the message. Now we're going to another crime. We will see you in detail and on Friday in front of Mr Mitarakis in the Greek Parliament. Eleven thousand two hundred and thirty-seven illegal immigrants are being released - because this is a real life, not the virtual reality of your channels, this is what the whole province and our islands are dealing with - on the basis of the law you have passed. From the start of June, these people leave where they were - where you fed them and slept for free you collected them here and you didn't prevent them from entering, you didn't send them back to the houses, nor to uninhabited islands - and they will be released. Where are these 11,000 two hundred and thirty-seven going? Will they be integrated into society? Are they gonna get a job? Are they going to the OAED programs? Are we serious now? These people will move out there to our grandparents and grandparents, to our villages, to our islands, to our nephews and to our children, to our homes and they will be hungry, because they have no food to eat. And they'll steal, because this is the normal course of a hungry man. And we will have an increase in crime, and not only will our country become a huge mess more than it is now. That's what's happening, unfortunately. I got a call from Asian Kozani and they told me that, Mr. Congressman, you must tell them. I'll say it. Somalians flew stones in a passing car in Arian Kozani. Here, it's all broken. That happens every day. That's what happens. And we don't stop. But we will discuss it in detail on Friday, and I prescribe the world for this, the Greeks and the Greeks, for all this crime committed at the expense of Greece, our country with illegal immigrants. And here we are clear: fence, concrete wall, minefields, no mosquito, push back, mass deportations as provided for by the European Court of Human Rights and I repeat massive deportations as provided for by the European Court of Human Rights, our borders, transfer to uninhabited islands and everyone behind and ending history and not share right and left tips. Let's go down. A brief comment on the economy. We haven't seen it yet, Yannis. We baptized it. We got the $32 million. Yesterday I participated in a debate, and here they were fighting how the money was to be shared. What money, guys? Let's get them first. People figure out what money we're talking about. Is there a Greek who doesn't want the 32 million? Of course we do. What will be these 32 million, the Commission's support package? He rightly says our economist, Mr. Villardos: the Commission has no money on its own. She doesn't have any funds of her own. So what we're talking about is theoretical. What's he doing? We must ensure this money from the Member States of the European Union. They must pass through their national parliaments and so on. It's a process that can take months. I don't know how long it will take. I wish Greece had them tomorrow morning. But what's that money? How are we gonna pay it back? To tell the truth in the world. Because I'm watching a media fair in the news releases. All right, they're yours. I don't disagree. But not so misinformation, for God's sake! "The package is coming, Santa Claus, yoki what's good, our problems have been saved!" It's not like that. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll finish in thirty seconds. We are entering the summer and I cannot help mentioning Mr. Theocharis with whom we have stayed together for the tourism bill. For the sake of God and the Virgin Mary, he has risen up - and I close with it - all the countries, Italy, France, the United States, he has stumbled on them, they are labels that they are sick and cannot come! Instead of declaring airports, he declared countries. These things are not happening, they are not happening anywhere, this sloppyness with which we are dealing with - as you say - tourism, which is not a heavy industry, but, again, it is a service provision. And the second gappa is the hazard list of our islands. You took islands out like some leprosy. 'You're not going there, you're going to some other', that's awesome! These are huge mistakes, Minister, and Mr President, which must be avoided. And I'm closing up with something I read on a tweet yesterday. I won't say anything else. I can only smile. I leave you then to comment freely. "The time of the bulldozer is near in Greek."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u256	Mr Karasmanis Georgios from New Democracy next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u257	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u258	Then there's Mr. Poulas, and we'll give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis, and then you are, Mr. Davaki. You've pounded the line that you've had anyway! Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. I would like your understanding in time because there are issues that I handled during 2014 that I was Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law regulates a number of unfinished business with a view to solving a number of problems. The regulation on the treatment of illegal Hellenism was a commitment by the government and the Prime Minister with the intensification of controls to end this lousy party, to recover the livestock sector that had been left to the mercy of the unconscious speculators. This meant that in 2017 and 2018 the producer's prices fell to incredibly low levels and at the same time to have a paradox, the exports of feta to grow but mysteriously its stocks kept stable and with the production of sheep and goat milk constantly falling. We have deepened the legislative framework with heavy fines and severe penalties with particular emphasis on PDO products and not just on PDO products. Here we are, and we will soon see in practice the success of the project or not. But, as political leaders, we must have the courage to recognise mistakes, to admit the right thing, to put back to every serious effort and not with implied arguments to try to deceive it. Another good step will be the electronic register. The right direction is the extension of the responsibilities of the ELGO - "DIMITRA" to control the movement and marketing of eggs using a balance. This provision is based on the Joint Ministerial Decision adopted in September 2014. I also appreciate the preparation by the Ministry - since the regions cannot respond - to the pilgrimage management plans for which the previous government has not only done anything but has also transferred it for 31 December 2021, with everything that implies to farmers' subsidies to the new CAP. The definition of pastures changed over the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état under Regulation 1307/2014, under which we proceeded in December 2014 in its resolution of No.4315 adding the dense, toasty and woody areas. By the same law we established the management plans for grazing, provisionally at the end of June 2015 and definitively at the end of 2015. But again the previous government "Black" 2015 also sent this design to the bells of the end of 2021. For the Community regulation on 'Omnibus', the necessary clarifications were given on the definition that we introduced at the time. It was the basis of arguments to get back the 466 million fines paid by the state budget for 2008-2012 and thus the farmers collected their aid. The problem with the Action Plan imposed on us by the European Commission in 2013-2014 was that farmers had a loss of income at that time without covering the next few years. We were committed that this loss of income will be replenished. That is why I asked the Ministry's leadership of 466 million today to be given to farmers given that the European Court of Justice's decision in our appeal will be positive, in line with the developments so far. These people are in a difficult financial situation for this, and we need to start compensation for lambs that are really responding to the loss of income due to the consequences of the pandemic, as well as the asparagus that I have been following until the end of the harvest and I know that there are income losses as well as for farmers of the people's markets - even today in greenhouses there is a problem of selling products - with targeted and not horizontal compensation, as the Minister has rightly said. In the arrangement for bluetongue the farmers of Larissa are paid after five years for the animals they lost. Minister, I'm sorry, but you made a small mistake when you said that three ministers, including one of the New Democracy, went through, obviously me, without solving the problem. The decision on compensation for bluetongue was signed by my predecessor in February 2014. It was absolutely right and compensation prices were set upon consultation with the troika. I amended it twice on the economic side by adding on 25 June 5 million euros and on 9 December 2014 another 4.5 million. As you should also know, brucellosis appeared in Larissa at the end of 2014. They had to be taken from infected animals, analysed, i.e. time-consuming procedures, at the same time the elections were announced. Yet under these circumstances we did what we had to do. The next government came in, which had to complete the payment procedure, but of course it did nothing. That's the truth. I would also like to tell you that the responsibility of the agricultural services and, more generally, of the stockfarming industry was shared by the Deputy Minister of State, Paris Koukoulopoulos, who handled this issue in a better manner. So, Minister, how do you say that three ministers of which one of the New Democracy, i.e. I, who increased the budget by EUR 9.5 million, did not deal with the matter? I think that you will restore the truth as you have done with the amendment to the ELGA's insurance contributions when you said that I was not allegedly presenting it in plenary session and that I referred in proportion to the insurance contributions arrangements for pensions, etc. And as we talk about the ELGA, it has given an extension for payment of contributions until the end of September just so that it does not apply my amendment of netting. However, no matter what extensions these people are given, they will not be able to pay simply because they were completely destroyed in 2019 - we had four hails - under the responsibility of the ELGA. This year again, their trees have been hurt in full flowering since the frosts of March and April. But the ELGA does not recognize their damages as indemnity, while on the contrary the same damages in villages of neighbouring counties are recognised. Even the day before yesterday, Sunday night, a heavy quartzing swept through the plain of the Yanks and the neighboring villages. What is needed at this time is to be instructed to make statements of damage from March Ice-April and to pay directly 35% of the balance, which are waiting for it and how these people, so that they can meet their obligations and live up to their families. In conclusion, I would like some ELGA technocrats to tell me what the agency would lose if it accepted the amendment to offset contributions. Answer me: absolutely nothing. Instead of constantly giving extensions, if he had accepted the set-aside, and the affected growers would be relieved and satisfied and the ELGA would have collected the contributions. But this will give us time, which today is pressing, to discuss it in detail. Finally, there are important provisions relating to fisheries and aquaculture. But there are delays in the fishing programme. We had prepared this programme in October 2014 and for the first time doubled the funds by 87%. Since then, in other words, when we entered the European Union, this has never happened before. These resources are therefore slashed into the Brussels funds. Fortunately, the new leadership is trying to unlock this programme so that no funds are lost. That's why he has to speed up procedures at light speed. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u260	Thank you. Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis has highlighted the importance of the ESS and the need for strong health systems. It has, however, highlighted the importance and the need for a new development model in the country, highlighted the need to ensure food adequacy on the planet, the weaknesses in the movement of agricultural products and the shortcomings in their distribution networks. In such times of crisis, the problems of product quality assurance, the problems of Greekization and the effects of producers, who are forced to sell their products cheaply and the consumers who buy them expensive, are even exacerbated. The health crisis has been paid and paid for by farmers, farmers and fishermen in our country. It is well known what happened in Easter with the trade in meat. The blow to farmers was strong and combined with the lowering of milk prices in previous years, which is the work of the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government, has led farmers to despair. We urgently need support measures for farmers, gentlemen of the government. In addition, the producers of fresh products and those selling their products on the popular market were particularly affected. It is clear that in this case state support must be practical and not in words, and indeed as soon as possible. The farmers of the people's markets are still waiting for EUR 800, as are the coastal fishermen who stayed out because of co-ownership because the adverse effects of the spread of the coronary were reflected in the fishermen's incomes. However, the country's wine growers are also in a very difficult situation as the restrictions imposed on the focus area have faced and faced great problems with the disposal of the products. The regulation of the bill under discussion attempts to deal with the phenomena of Hellenism by tightening the sentences, but, as life has shown itself, it is not enough to have legislation and framework. What is needed above all is the activation of the control mechanisms, their strengthening with strength and, of course, the political will that is needed to put an end to these unacceptable phenomena of greed, fraud and misleading consumers who are a wound to the agricultural sector and to the Greek society. There are arrangements of a regular nature, but I would like, on the basis of this debate, to address an issue that I consider to be a central issue for the country. It is finally time for a new, modern productive model as we have presented it as a Change Movement. The production of agricultural quality products with guaranteed identity, the interconnection with tourism and the national tourist product to be upgraded, the use of environmentally friendly energy sources that will reduce energy costs, environmental and ecosystem protection actions should be key elements of a new modern concept of rural development, the Greek region and the country as a whole. In view of the new risks posed for agricultural income by climate change, it is necessary to improve the system of agricultural production insurance and plant and livestock capital so that farmers and farmers feel safe in their profession. In Argolida lately due to climatic conditions, a problem was created with the fruiting of both the varnishes and the olives. I hope you will look at this very seriously, Minister. Another point is that farmers cannot modernise their farms and young farmers cannot move forward when there is a huge lack of liquidity. They hear about coup d'états, and in practice they do not see them because the terms and conditions do not allow them to make use of them. The expectation for farmers that they will become energy entrepreneurs at all does not correspond to the reality. Of course, it is moving in the right direction to encourage the collective operators of TWG and collective efforts to move towards a photovoltaic installation to reduce the cost of agricultural holdings, but not all farmers can become energy entrepreneurs. Here I would like to refer to an issue which, unfortunately, has left the SYRIZA government so unregulated and which has not yet been dealt with by your own government. It is the problem of TWG debts to PPC. There are only thirteen TWGs in Argolida, and debts amount to 2 million. I shall give a concrete example of the TWG Ion. People have been trying since 2018 to regulate their debts with PPC and they can't make it. They have prepared themselves a financial study, they have submitted it to PPC since October 26, and still PPC has not accepted it, while farmers continue to pay. They have reduced the debt from 627 thousand euros by 40%, PPC accepts the money, but does not go to regulation. In addition, he puts them interest on late payments. You must resolve this matter immediately, Minister, that is to say the TWG issue. The last point I want to raise is the problem of Trieste, which you know since 2000 has appeared in our country. In Argolida, the problem is serious. Oranges are destroyed. You need to see it. You'll have to move on and fix the new FDA to see how we deal with this serious problem of Tristetza because the producers are rebellious. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the agricultural sector can give a huge boost to the development of the country's economy. Let us make the crisis that we are experiencing an opportunity to change our productive model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u262	We shall now give the floor to Mr Claonas Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you have become accustomed to me, I will begin with the well-known questions posed by Mera25 until he gets an answer. They are critical questions about the country's course. The most critical of this time is, of course, what is happening with the Turks. What about the Turks? It's obvious they've been demolished to an outrageous level now. It is obvious that they are talking about twenty - twenty - six plots, where they will carry out investigations, which belong to the Greek territory. It is even more obvious that the traditionally highly nationalized Government of New Democracy is "doing the duck", in short it has put the tail in its arms. It is acidic - and I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and I mean 'loving' - because the government has demonstrated an excellent heroism when, against it, it has had the hard-worked female children sent by the fascist - commonly professed, Mr Erdogan at our borders to cause us a problem. There you have really demonstrated great heroism, sent all-armed men of MATs, sent troops, called the European Union, but then our national territory was not at stake, our national sovereignty was not at stake. It is clear at the moment that they are at stake. It has been made clear to all tons all its responsible officials across the neighbouring country. And we really think that - not to say some bad expression - you are whistling indifferently, you are doing that nothing is wrong. We tell you he's running and we tell you that the fascists who govern the country next to us will feel that they are only threatened if they are threatened. Let me say some raw and cynically before the House of Greece: If the Turks - given that we are completely unprotected and alone from all the alliances that you pretend so long that we have and you know well that nobody will clean up for us - do not feel threatened to any fat - apologise for the expression - are doing in relation to our national territory and our national sovereignty, to lose any millions of citizens of the entrants, to make sure that they will slowly try to shake our continent, after our inhabited islands, our islands and rocky islands, and finally, why not Mykonos and Santorini. We tell you why so long you are the most nationalistic part of the Greek Parliament, as it is at least now its structure, except for the Greek Solution. So we expect you to react. React at last! Let's go to second. What is going on with 'HERAKLI'? We know very well that nothing is going on at all. However, we always remind you before the Greek people that very soon the guarantees and aggressive predators, the famous hedge funds, who have come to rob the country and the hardship of people who have been charged without being the same at all with the memorials that you have all signed, will soon ask you and you will be forced to give them 12 billion euros, which you will have to borrow in order to get rid of them and not to support the Greek people, tourism, our farms, our restaurants. I see that you intend to support the predators and it's alarming. For once, I say again that you know, you must apologise at some point, not to us - because we know that for us you do not pay particular attention - but to the Greek people. The Greek people are here, they are everywhere, they are on their TV and they are now listening to me for the tenth time, and Yani Varoufakis for the 20th time to invoke you and tell you this: will you really donate 12 billion to the predators at the time the famine of our compatriots and fellow citizens starts and while the ultimate solution - today, you can also prevent now - with an act of legislation to stop the bleeding of 12 billion? Why don't you do it? Everyone is reasonably wondering if you're trade unions with the predators. I don't want to insinuate it. I hope that it is none of you, that you have nothing to do with it, but it is clear that if you are not trade unions, some rightholders hold you from your neck and tie you handcuffed to your hands and you do not bring a mere act of legislation, as you have every right to do and as no one will ever invoke you from the European Union or from your other bosses, the passive oligars of this world. They do not even force you on European contracts, they do not even force you by the Commission, they do not even force you on predatory funds. Let's go to third. What about the workers in art? I inform you, absolutely nothing, as I am a worker in art thirty-six years apart from the amazing invention of the dear Mrs. Mendoni, which is called "all Greece a culture". You know that there are a thousand actions financed with the versatile sum of EUR 20 million, which 20 million, this glossy money is distributed voluntarily - to say it - blurred, that is, without any competition, to anyone we want or to whom, in our opinion, it represents Greek art. And the sum of 20 million is an irritating amount in his hearing. The Greek people understand that we are talking about crumbs when we talk about a hundred sixty thousand people who have to survive. Divide it to see what I mean as crumbs. Apart from what I said and to close, as always, the little piece of culture with a humorous mood, I could very well with all the data I mentioned, the title instead of "All Greece a culture" is "All Greece is an artistic predator", because it is a predator, believe me. All the conditions are the prerogative, without rehearsals without preparation, without space, without texts. Of the guilty, let's show the strangers that we've opened and waited for you. By the way, strangers come scamming. From Qatar they have started and changed the epidemiological picture in the country, because of course Qatar - I do not know if you know, I inform you - has a huge problem right now. Over there, he takes lives as a sickly grace the coroner. He's got his own borders. The people who got sick here will stay here for no time, keep it in mind. From what they're going to turn, he doesn't accept anyone. However, it has them intact to go on holiday to third world countries like ours, a good time to spend the rest of our time. And as a government you say your various absurdities about schools, about one another, about bans, about no bans. Finally, all the Catarians will come and curse us together, since they are most of them billionaires. What about bankrupt private banks? You know them, but temptation is huge for me - and I'm not avoiding him - to say their names. It is the National Bank, Alpha Bank, Eurobank and Piraeus. Sinful, systemic, bankrupt, bankrupt too long. I won't start from 2008. It is nine or ten of the recapitalisations that have been taken from the pocket of the Greek people over and above, and PASOK then and New Democracy and SYRIZA. I will only tell you that in 2013 we, the Greek people, gave EUR 25 billion to recapitalise these sinners and without any kind of patronage - from what they have shown - banks. We gave 25 billion in 2013, 8.3 billion in 2014, 15 billion euros in 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll allow me to take two more minutes. I will not speak again, Mr President. The whole thing is 25 and 15, which is 40. It is only EUR 48.5-50 billion since 2013. Now we have to recapture them again from our posture. And you know, we're neither irrational nor mujahedine. I'm sorry about the expression. We know that no economy in the context of capitalism can function without banks. We're not saying the banks are closed. We say, after we have paid back your banks, at least we demand that we take management, we demand that they take part in their decisions and function. We also demand that their monopoly be abolished, yesterday, in the electronic transactions of all - and of your voters - all Greek citizens without exception. Finally, build a state, free, public system of extra-bank electronic payments. It is incomprehensible to want to make five euros from Eurobank and get me 2.5 euros, because the ATM is Alpha Bank. You know very well that Alpha Bank's ATM serves Eurobank, it doesn't serve me. He should pay me, add me something more. Well, this is going to happen with the banks. Now what is going on with the seventeen contractors in asylum services, who have the courage - listen, listen - to trade and you immediately did not renew their contract. She was here a few days ago, the president of the contract union, Mrs. Irene Zani. Does that mean anything to you? The President has not been renewed. In another sixteen, all happened to be the only trade unionists in these contracts, the contract was not renewed. For LARCO, I will not tell you again and I am mourning you. What about Larco? BROK (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and Mr Hatzidakis - he has unfortunately left - defamated her so much, I am sure that it will not catch a single EUR 10 million. And it is a company that brought 300 million a year into currency, a company which, as the JRC has tabled an amendment says, exploits the only deposits in Europe of more than 20 billion euros. I will immediately conclude, Mr President, with one advice to seafarers, advice from us, Mera25, with a lot of love, to you in the New Democracy. Dear friends and colleagues of the New Democracy, especially those who are running from a more responsible place, such as the Prime Minister and the Ministers, now end the sanitary houses and slowly begin their second wave. I mean the TV spots on the channels you've given you 21 million euros to play these spots, which they should do for free, if these slippers, our parasitic oligars, had some gum. Now, then, is the end of the sanitary spots, the night is leaving and the day is coming, as the old advertisement said, and the new circle of these lands will slowly come, which will be savings in supporting our terrible restaurants that said they will not open by 40% - we believe they will not open by 50%, our terrible hoteliers, who will see that they too will not open by 40%, to support all of them, the unemployed in art, the techniques, for all of the Greek people. In your new spots, we, as Mer25, strongly recommend you to the "Government" - with which the whole world laughs - to slowly remove the "Government" and allow the Hellenic Republic to pull the snake out of this hole, because otherwise all citizens will connect you regardless of what they vote as a government with the economic tampering you do and you know that you will never fulfill. So leave the role of dishonor to the Hellenic Republic and save from the downfall in the collective subconsciousness of your Government. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u264	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, for some time now I have noticed something that tends to become a statute and which, as I have said before, has been avoided by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy. All the Parliamentary Representatives, who come to Stepma and are placed, do not speak of the bill at all. They speak from Greek-Turkish to all the fields of government policy, criticize and do not, Mr President, deal with the bill, which I would ask you to take into account and bring them back to order. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that it is an important intervention in the case called Greek agriculture. The proposed provisions have, I would say, the role of tools, which will resolve time-consuming issues of primary production, issues relating to specific sectors, specific cases and which relate to large areas of application in government policy on agriculture. The question of Hellenism, as mentioned earlier. Indeed, the Greeks, as the Minister said yesterday in his speech, are harming agricultural income, jeopardising the reputation of the product and creating huge problems in marketing as well. As they have understood, the Minister said that we would have three phases on the issues of ratification, restriction, combating, abolishing Greekizations, illegal imports. The first is the ratification framework. Indeed, with heavy fines, there are those provisions, so that all those who want to create this problem can avoid it because of the legislative framework. At the same time, there will be the control mechanism, as well as the technological, scientific approach, with the DNA of Kalamata olives, for example, of milk, which abundantly flood the Greek market and undermine agricultural income. The Kalamon olive tree, as we have repeatedly discussed, Mr. Minister, in your office, is a brutally affected product. There are also issues of feta due to illegal milk imports, mainly from Central Europe. I think you made the beginning. It needs to be completed with the other two specific issues, such as the technological and scientific approach, as well as the control mechanism, which must be structured in such a way that this tragic phenomenon can finally be stopped, for example, by imports of Kalamata olives from Turkey or from Egypt, so that it is now sold 50 minutes, for example, the Kalamon olive in Laconia, when its cost of production exceeds 70 and 80 minutes. You realise that a farmer, who produces Kalamon olives, the flagship product of our country, will find it difficult to deal with this suspect, illegal and fraudulent way of importing these problems. Apiculture registries. Finally, this legislative initiative is the National Apiculture Register. It has been said before that the apiculture sector is very important for primary production because plant production is fertilised, all those which make up primary production are fertilised, plus the fact that this exceptional product is produced, which our country produces in large quantities. And yet this sector is in a primitive primitive primitive, I would say, phase and I believe that the National Apiculture Register, set up by this government by the Minister of Mr Voridis, gives a good prospect to these issues. You should not see, Minister, and the issues of genetic material with regard to the production of queens. The queens, as far as I know, come imported from abroad at a huge cost to producers. I believe that there must be an intervention with a basic advisory body and the Agricultural University and also with people, such as the honest professor, Mr Charizanis, who really is a flagship person in the apiculture sector. You said that unemployment benefit is being converted into a job allowance in terms of employment incentives in the primary sector. It is a very important issue, ladies and gentlemen. All of us in the Greek region understand what this means when the Greeks are in an unemployed phase, in a phase that inactivates any young knives and momentum, and there is all this support for primary production by foreign workers. But what is institutionalised by this government is very important and I think it is worth our congratulations. Article 16, ladies and gentlemen, establishes the collection of dead animals. Minister, the collection of dead animals, which I see in the bill goes through the regions, also has another issue: the stray cattle that floods regions, such as my own country, Mani, and which are a shame in our culture, but are at stake in the tourist profile of beautiful regions, such as these regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I believe that care should be taken for stray bovine animals so that they fall under the responsibility of the region, because until now they are in the municipalities, and there is a huge issue, and I would say personal relations, to the functionality and effectiveness of the collection of stray bovine animals, which are also a public risk, apart from being found as dead animals and those, with all that means health. I believe that this will create a better picture. Take the initiative. I believe that a new bill will come for this, in which you should include stray cattle, mainly areas such as Crete, than I have been told, but also my own country, Mani. I would like to say a few words about the issues that have to do with last May's recent heat. From the 16th to 18th of May in Lakonia, as in many regions of Greece, there was a heathen, which mainly affected the flowering of olives and citrus fruits in the fruiting phase. I understand that the invoicing of every time of the ELGA Plant Production Insurance Regulation and the non-inclusion of these injurious causes in this regulation is a one-aisled endurance. Finally, Minister, there must be a substantial intervention on the issues of the ELGA's Insurance Regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u266	Finish it, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u267	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is up to the Opposition to say that he already had an ELGA insurance regulation in place. There was nothing like that. There was a proposal that was even paid and EUR 30,000, which no one knows what happened and clearly the current administration of the ELGA did not accept it. I am making this decision. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There must also be a change in regulation on the most realistic and I would say something that you have advanced in the programming declarations, a orientation and a privatization of insurance, or an optionality, if you wish, in terms of plant and animal production. In conclusion, I would like to say something about the related aid paid. They've presented too many problems, like censuses in the register. There are people who had a specific date, who were unable to come to that date and were excluded. I think you should see it because it is too serious and it concerns the Greek farmers who are waiting for a special support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u268	Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, seeing the title of this draft law, which refers to the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector, we all prejudge that here we have a bill which will at least have a design of part of the agricultural policy for the next day, as it comes at a time when the health crisis and pandemic cause serious economic consequences. But instead, what do we have? As the Minister admitted, this bill is not about modernising and upgrading the agricultural sector, but it is a racist bill. In other words, the Minister admits that the government has been swept away. And to understand and be understandable, what does that mean? That the government borrowed extracts, extracts, opinions, saved arrangements from the Ministry's services - all this could be circular or ministerial decisions - and presented a bill. I understand the importance of the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development to present legislative work. However, even this result of irrationalism, this evacuation of provisions is not being done properly and efficiently. And I will explain what I mean, after I say that this bill proves that the New Democracy Government is not ready, it does not have an integrated proposal for its so-called pro-agricultural choice, but it was lucky that it had the services of the Ministry ready. And he had them ready under our guidance, in our own rule. Therefore, the inclusion of egg producers in the ARTEMIS system is ready, the Beekeeping Registry is ready. But all this has been delayed 11 months. We were too late. There were others ready for the Ministry's services but the government did not bring them into the bill. For example, the Ministry has prepared the final study on the harmonisation of the authorisation of livestock establishments with Law 4442/2016, which concerns all economic activities of the country. We also hear here that you are now setting up a committee. You are now setting up a committee for an already drafted and final proposal from the Ministry. Therefore, instead of going ahead with this bill for the authorisations of the livestock establishments A', B' and III' degree, the aquaculture, veterinary and all activities under the Ministry of Rural Development, we are giving an extension of existing livestock facilities by the end of 2020 and we call this'modernisation'. The bill has fragmentation and curiosity. The krone, says, of this piece of legislation is to tighten the sentences for the Greekizations. These are penalties, of course, without any provision on how to reach them, without any provision on the control mechanisms, without any provision for controls. And now New Democracy comes and says SYRIZA never did any checks. It ignores even the joint ministerial decision on controls on milk and balances, which resulted in the implementation of it stabilising and increasing even slightly the prices of milk. It was a ministerial decision that imposed penalties of up to millions depending on the turnover of businesses, and provided for the closure of companies which were going to relapse. So, tell us, since we did not do anything about the checks, but we have to present ourselves in the eight-month term that I know three and a half thousand tests only in the FFET, only in the focus area and only in the PDO product feta. I've got the evidence here and I'll file it all in the Minutes. So tell us how many checks you've done in the 11 months you've been at the Ministry. There are many other provisions, such as those on veterinary medicine where you do not take care of 'on line', which is contrary to existing legislation and there is no care for it. So I would say to you this: instead of making racist bills, it would be nice to make decisions that will support the country's rural world, even through the irrationalisation of their proposals and demands. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] I need another minute, Mr President. For example, we already have a favourable decision for the country to return EUR 446 million for pasture land. In fact, we heard here a moment ago that this decision and this right to the European Court of Justice came up, it says, because of the law that the New Democracy Government had made in December 2014, Mr.4315. Obviously, it is unpleasant for this to be heard by MPs and former ministers. You obviously do not know the European legislature procedure. Europe legislates on the basis of agreements between the Member States. The European Union does not come to interpret a law that you made in December 2014, and this proves to be a great deal more than the fact that the judgment of the European Court of Justice is not mentioned anywhere in the decision of the Court of Justice. On the contrary, it was the result of a systematic effort by our own government to change the definition of the pasture ‘Omnibus’ in 2017 and, indeed, by ‘Recital 54’, which said that the pasture is no longer determined by the type of vegetation, but by its agricultural use. So I have the impression that you at least have the obligation to give this money to the country's rural area, to strengthen our farmers - it is still unstable whether you will give them 4 euros to the female animal - to strengthen our oil producers, our small wine growers, our fishermen, the fisheries cooperatives and the wage earners of the lakes. You need to deal with areas that really have a problem. Here I would like an answer from the Minister - and I conclude, Mr President - about what is being done through the State Aid Programme. Will the Fascist producers in Kastoria be given a very big problem? Will the yield of the MAGPs be frozen on cereals, for which there is already a decision? Finally, I want to say about the ELGA. Take care of its solidarity and leave the hints and toys at the expense of farmers. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Unfortunately, however, your policy does not go to the poor homes of Greek farms. Mr President, I am tabling the documents I have before you. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Olympia Tyigoridou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u270	Next speaker is Mr. Savvas Anastasiades from New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u272	So here you can talk for a minute. Be short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor on the basis of what my colleague Mrs Fiygorind said yesterday, which referred to my speech yesterday in the case of livestock facilities. Mrs. Tyloridou, to tell you exactly what we're talking about. You set up a working group, as you were due, to simplify the authorisations under Law 4442/2016, namely a simplification to be made for veterinary permits, livestock and aquaculture. Indeed, there was a cove, which, of course, was completed by us last week, because it was not ready as you presented it. However, this is what I have referred to and is the major one: the committee which has been set up and handed over to it does far greater than this procedural simplification, which we must do anyway. It comes and sees the real problems of the livestock facilities of Law 4056/2012. I'm saying, in an outline, three. What is the definition of clipboard accommodation? What is the definition of accompanying works for livestock establishments? What are we going to do about the issues of distances that have been created in relation to existing livestock facilities? These are practically live problems relating to livestock facilities. So that's exactly what we're working on now, Mrs. Tylorido, to put things in place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u274	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u276	No, no, please. Mr Anastasiades Savvas has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u278	But that's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u279	But how is it not, having referred to what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u280	He has given some explanations about what you have placed yourself on. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u281	I need a minute to clarify a few things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u282	No, no, this thing won't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u283	I just want to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u284	But what can you explain? No such procedure is foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u285	Then why did you give the State Secretary the floor? Did I say anything personal? He referred to the speech I made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u286	I'm sorry, addressing doesn't mean anything. He heard you and intervened to give some clarification that she thought and should, in her opinion, give.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u287	I want to, too, for my part...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u288	Ms. Tyloridou, you know very well what the matter arises when a Member of Parliament invokes staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u289	You know from my standpoint five years here in the House that I'm not interfering...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u290	Has any of the things you said distorted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u291	But he's not telling the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u292	I ask you: has the Minister distorted any of what you said? Answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u293	She questioned what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u294	I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be able to answer this question in writing, but I would like to ask him if he is prepared to do so. Let's not know grammar now. Mr Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. I will not avoid, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled a moment ago by the Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, concerning the initiatives taken by the Ministry for Lake Cornelia. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I have been dealing with Lake Cornelia as Prosecutor of Lagada, and I have been following the problem that was actually known twenty-five years ago, in 1995, but the degradation of the lake has started far before, since 1980. I therefore consider the initiative of the Minister for the Environment to be sound and courageous and I think it is the only way to solve the problems facing the lake. Why am I saying that? Because there was a great deal of duty and responsibility in too many agencies. I participated in this committee and never when we discussed issues, we could not make a decision. That meant delays, and if it continued, the delays would continue. The way in which the Ministry of the Environment is going to solve this problem, I think that the projects that have been planned will be run much faster and the lake will be restored much faster. I would like to say this although the Minister for the Environment is not listening to us. There we need to be careful about the issue of water use, because there the economy has been based on the abundant water resources, it has supported livestock farming, livestock farming has in turn supported agriculture, and agriculture has in turn supported livestock farming. In other words, there is an economic chain which, if it breaks, I think there will be a problem in the region. Now, with regard to the bill, Mr Mitsotakis, I think that from the beginning the aim of the Ministry of Rural Development, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, as well as the government and Prime Minister himself, Mrs Mitsotakis, was to start a new era for the agricultural sector, a time that would mark the regeneration of the rural area, a time that would overcome bureaucratic obstacles, which would provide much better services to the farmer, which would reduce taxation and ultimately reduce production costs and make attractive agricultural entrepreneurship. This is done by measures, actions and tools to support the rural area, which can highlight agriculture, livestock and fisheries as key pillars of economic activity in our country, as well as employment in the countryside that is deserting and increasing the participation of the agricultural product in the Gross National Product. This is done today by a series of measures, which you are bringing to the plenary debate and vote in the House, with a number of provisions which improve the existing provisions, but also new provisions, innovative provisions such as the Agricultural Accounting Network, as well as the Electronic Register of Beekeeping, an issue which was a request for many years of beekeepers, where there will be a proper and effective treatment of diseases and controls on imports and the domestic movement of honey produced. Aquaculture arrangements are under way. It is a huge issue of demarcation of the area, of organised aquaculture development in my area, in Thessaloniki, on the west side of Thermaikos, in Chalastra, in Kymina, in Malgara, there are muscular crops where 80% -85% of the domestic production of a highly exportable product is produced, and since 1998 a request for the demarcation of the PDO has been submitted, as it is said, and so far nothing has been done. I believe that, with intervention today in the legitimisation and simplification of procedures, this problem can also be solved, so that the mussel farming in the area is more organised, which is for many sole crops. It gives solutions to the problems of stable establishments and, in particular, to the problems of ovine and caprine animals. This is very important because it was an inhibitor of growth. And of course, he deals with and gives solutions or tries to deal with the phenomenon of Hellenism. a time-consuming phenomenon affecting domestic production, Greek products, domestic consumers and, unfortunately, so far, our country has been unable to cope. On the contrary, with the measures that were in place in the previous period, I think they strengthened the Greekisations. Finally, because Mr Ministers, I see you are making a great effort, with important initiatives and trying to resolve many problems over time, chronic problems, I would like to ask you to bend on the problem of workers from the Lagada Association, which has been in liquidation since 2012 and which have not yet been paid for by their employees, even though they have been awarded a tribute to the Greek courts. We need to find a solution to workers and I think it is a pity that they have not been compensated since 2012 for the work they have done in the former Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Lagada. Finally, I want to say that the pandemic period has confirmed something else. We have confirmed the need to support the primary sector and an opportunity, Minister, through the 32 billion allocated to our country, a place to provide support and development for the rural area and to modernise the rural economy so that it can meet modern requirements and consumer requirements. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the debate of the bill myself, I must refer to the issue that has arisen in the primary sector of Crete with the heats of May and the prolonged high temperatures, which have done terrible damage to olive groves and citrus fruits. The heater came at the worst time, at the end of the flowering, at the beginning of the season, in a year, which comes after the terrible destruction of Crete's olive-growing last year, due to the forest. Last year the damage reached 100 million. This year, it cannot yet be estimated - the ELGA workshops - but I really call for an end to the assessment as soon as possible and, secondly, for compensation to be paid for the damage suffered, especially in view of the need for improvements, corrections to the ELGA regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, in Crete there is one impression - which we should see, the ELGA should show us that this is not the case - that compensation and the compensation regulation are much more oriented in the north than in the south. I'm just going to say it, the frost is much more easily compensated than the heat. Well, because we have consequences for olive oil production and citrus fruits, which can be really catastrophic, it's time to see this as well. On the occasion of this, I say that there are now accumulated debts from farmers and you need to regulate the issue of offsetting compensation with debts. I think we're also bureaucratically winning this way. We are gaining by reducing bureaucracy, but we also facilitate people who have to receive compensation, but cannot if they have not repaid debts, which they may not be able to do. I now come to the bill itself. Isolated two points which I consider to be the major points. One is the strictest penalties for misleading the consumer in relation to the origin of the products. This is also necessary in order to strengthen our primary sector that has identity products, with high added value, and we must not let their market share be traded on the market by others who sell imported products or products with other origins than that on labels and that is something that is for the benefit of both the producer and the consumer. It has been filled for many years by Greece on the market with oranges from Crete, by a chiver of Crete. Is that really so? In this bill, the penalties for misleading are made tighter and I believe that you are moving in the right direction so that we can impose a order on the market. Let me just note that, apart from the penalties themselves, the control mechanism must also be strengthened, we must ensure that there is a way to control the market both from the Ministry's institutions and from the regional economy directorates. Now the second major issue that is regulated by the bill is damage to farms, the agricultural losses we used to talk about before. This is something very important, and this is where you put stricter penalties and you are doing very well. There is, however, a weakness here. These penalties to be imposed must go to court. There are many cases where the farmhouses do not go to court. And I explain as soon as I can, I may need your tolerance for a minute, Madam President. In Crete we have many times in the same area, in the same village of agricultural holdings and livestock farming, olive groves and livestock farming, that is the norm. This makes sense that it causes friction especially with our own model of livestock farming. In the vast majority of cases the cases of agricultural losses are resolved in consultation between farmers and farmers, because in the vast majority they are comprehensible people who find their way of working. There is, however, a very small minority of cases where some have made farm losses, not really accidental farm losses, but it is a phenomenon where some systematically feed their animals from their neighbours' crops. This must obviously be stopped. These people discredit the farmers, they are not the farmers, they are not the farmers, they are not the farmers of Crete. We are talking about cases where they may be measured on the fingers of two hands and very few specific villages. In these cases not only do we have this damage, but this damage never reaches the courts, because no one ever makes a complaint or finds witnesses to the complaint for reasons that you can imagine. So what do we have to do here? We need to find another way. I have submitted a proposal to the Minister, I will submit it on the Minutes, which provides for administrative sanctions, fines, which will be imposed by the police, which, in order not to burden the farmer, who at one time has fallen into this crime have a escalation, that is to say, start with a symbolic fine in the first case where this crime is committed, EUR 30, does not matter, this will be debated and escalated very much in the event of relapse. In the third relapse, the fine should really be forbidden for the farmer, it should be such that it excludes someone who has done a profession from feeding their animals on the property of others. The fine should then be collected and bound by the Community aid received by the farmer. I believe it is the only shape, which will guarantee peace first in the areas where there are farmers and farmers. I stress that it must be done in such a way that it does not unduly affect farmers, that it does not affect the serious farmers or the accident where one or even two of their animals have left, but that it should prevent this systematic infringement. There is no more time, I will table my proposal in the Minutes, we will also discuss it in our local society, and I want to believe that the government will also come to solve this problem to put our primary sector on a new basis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Manosos - Konstantinos Voloudakis, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u298	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Madam President. The Government of New Democracy itself holds the communication game and, in particular, is imaginative in finding titles for bills, which are in no way consistent with the content. In other words, if these scattered regulatory provisions are your long-term strategic planning for upgrading and modernising agricultural policy, the national strategic planning must have a blind eye to it. Mr Ministers, you know that the long-term vision and the integrated design for strengthening primary production, which, in times of pandemic crisis, needs to be further stimulated, is not something that only the SYRIZA MPs have to say, is commemorated throughout the street, particularly in all agricultural cooperatives, to all individual farmers. It's too bad again for your high-advertised Final State. Do you know what other farmers say in the province at least? They say that the government did not see a single euro for the entire time that the pandemic crisis lasted and held. All you do is send farmers, small and medium-sized farmers in the country with seven, ten, even twenty acres of agricultural crops to get loans from the banks. Of course you have the same tactic about pushing the banks for lending you have for all the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. However, the whole productive and commercial world expects real liquidity support. Unfortunately, this is only part of the SYRIZA programme from which you are not exemplary and you are not adopting any proposals at all. I would also like to mention a problem that still burns the agricultural sector. For eleven months not only have you not made progress in the almost ready-made reform of the ELGA regulation - and I say 'nearly ready' because we had the necessary proportionate studies - but you do not reveal to us and to the rural world what you will ultimately do with the ELGA regulation. As many colleagues have said, there are instances of reductions in production from causes not provided for by the existing ELGA regulation precisely because of the climate crisis and change and you do not include them. Finally, we should be told by the Minister whether he will be privatised by ELGA, whether he has a design and whether he is not designed, because there are increased premiums in agricultural products. In particular, I shall refer to the cherry we have in Pieria. Suddenly farmers are called upon to pay increased premiums because you are abolishing two insurance classes. You therefore have them to pay increased premiums and you do not tell them whether they will be compensated for production reduction effects due to the climate crisis. Just because you do not make it clear what you will do with ELGA, you have us MPs to transfer requests to compensate our producers with de minimis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u300	You've corrected it for four and a half years!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u301	Look, my dear colleague, the ball is to blame for the past...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u302	I just commented on it. You did it all and we corrected it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u303	The Greek people have chosen you and from you they expect work from your Final State, which has done nothing at all about the agricultural sector. Nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u304	And you did everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u305	Let's go down. To talk about livestock farming. You are bringing us a bill, which provides for a simple extension for the permits of existing livestock and stacking facilities. Mrs. Arabatzis, look at this. In the Ministry of Rural Development, and in particular the responsibility of the former Minister responsible for livestock matters, Ms.Tilyoridou, there has been a bill prepared in May 2019 with the cooperation of all the relevant ministries and had the approval of the partners and was precisely concerned with the remodeling of the regulation on the authorisation of grape and fodder plants. Don't lie, tell the whole truth! Also, our livestock farmers - and here I have to present for the minutes a letter to the Minister of State, Mr Vorides, from the country's livestock club - are still awaiting exceptional aid of EUR 23 million. Will they take her or won't they take her? What is also happening with the EUR 446 million returned to us by the European Union, on the basis of specific decisions, for the aid granted to our farmers for the years 2009-2012 and 2013-2014? I had asked a question for 2013-2014. The answer was a press release from the Minister, Mr. Maki Voridis, on February 17, this year, which says that they are returning to the state budget of EUR 280 million. Where are these millions? Are they lost on the road? When are they going to our stockfarmers? I will also submit this document on the Minutes. As regards beekeepers, the establishment of the electronic register is a good initiative. But the questions that arise are how and when to protect the beekeepers from unfair competition, how to protect our particular national product. Why don't you change the national institutional framework and integrate instruments and controls, such as static analysis of reference isotopes, such as magnetic coordination? Why do you not introduce additional labelling requirements for the origin of honey? When will the procedures for the Greek mark for honey be completed? When will research programmes be developed to document the high quality of our honey?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u306	But I would ask you to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance. I'll be done. Not to mention fishermen, who do not adopt the proposals of professional fishermen? Also, why don't you bring us a setting when UCLAF operates in 2015 that deletes any fines that have been established by the end of 2016. Why do you not anticipate means and the possibility of appeals for the fishermen invoke the specific malfunction of the UCLAF or the delay in putting it into effect? I want to close up with a major project for Pieria. At the initiative of the former Mayor of Pydna - Colindo, at the SYRIZA Government, a study of EUR 9 million was approved. This study concerns huge and extremely important work for the area of northern Pierre and Imathia, irrigation work with drilling upgrades and remote control. I repeat, the funding of the study has been approved. We want to see what happened and if you're going to complete it. I'm presenting to the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Elisabeth Skoufa, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Efstaios (Stratos) Simopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Simopoulos has the floor now from New Democracy and Mrs Sukoulis is also being prepared from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u309	Madam President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this Chamber. When Opposition, in particular, does not have any arguments for a particular bill, it resorts to known tactics. The first level is that the bill is not visible. Secondly, there is probably no consultation. Third, the lawmaker may be bad. And fourthly, it could be unconstitutional. So, for eleven months now, this is happening all the time and it is happening in this Chamber, why? Because there really is a bill that regulates the agricultural sector. And whether it's the beekeeping, whether it's the eggs, it's the fishing, one way or another, it solves issues. I have been asking you for four and a half years, all of what you say in this Chamber, why didn't you do it? Because you didn't have time. Why, for example, within your vision, have you not been able to legislate cannabis can plant, as your Minister said, in the courts for private use? That's what I wonder how you didn't catch up with him. Of course, I say it joking to say that at times you have said things as government. And you come here with a government which, in essence, coordinates, as canvas, puts cross-bergs in terms of development and rural development and asks for the change. I shall now speak on an issue that is important and which concerns fishermen, fishing fishermen not only from Thessaloniki, for example, for Kyrini, but also from Kavala, obviously also from Volos. And I am speaking here for a number of other fellow Members, whom I am discussing. It is the most infamous issue of fishermen who come from other countries as a matter of urgency, who are basically seasonal and we force shipowners to pay 27% of contributions. We have to solve this. These are seasonal workers, who are essentially through insurance contributions, no remuneration within the system. I therefore have a request from the Pan-Hellenic Middle Fisheries Veterinarians' Union. I want you, Madam Secretary, to see it. Of course, it's not just about you, it's about the Ministry of Labour. And I think a solution should be found. As far as Cornelia is concerned, what I have to say is that Cornelia is not what it was twenty or twenty-five years ago, it's in better shape. However, the issue of Cornelia must be taken immediately. And as the responsibilities are now fragmented, we have issues. That is why I fully agree with the amendment made by the Minister responsible for Energy to this bill, while stressing that we must discuss with the European Union. There are remaining works that have not been completed. There are remaining actions. And of course, as the Ministry has done on this issue, I think that a company as it used to be, as you colleagues, the Falirian Front Refreshment Company, a company for the renewal of the coastal front of Thessaloniki, a state-owned company that will unite all the responsibilities. And in this way, a jewel of Thessaloniki, Thermaikos and all of Greece, will really be able to grow. So I give the next speaker the Step. I have spoken five minutes, Madam President. You owe me one more minute. I'm presenting to the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u310	Colleague, I'll record it in the minute. Mrs Sukoulis has the floor now from New Democracy. Let me make a announcement to this House until the Energon decontamination is over. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Labour and Social Affairs and Justice, as well as the Deputy Minister for Immigration and Asylum, have tabled a draft law on 3-6-2020: "Structuring the Headquarters Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) on the operation of the Operational Office of EASO in Greece. The Ministers for Health, Finance, National Defence, Infrastructure and Transport and Maritime Policy submitted to the 3-6-20 draft law on "Standard from 21-5-2020 an amendment from 3-6-2019 individual Donation Convention for Project V from 6-9-2018 a Donation Convention between the Foundation "COMMELS ITAUROS S. NIORCHOS" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructures, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A-170) and other provisions on patient aerospace". Madam President, you have the floor and forgive me for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to ratify in the Greek Parliament the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food with regard to the rural development process. It is a bill that is firmly moving within the framework of our government strategy to make the country's primary sector on the front of a new development model, a model that needs today, more than ever before the Greek economy and Greek society and, of course, our farmers. Because it is commonly accepted that our farmers and their agricultural production have the necessary comparative advantages to take the lead on the domestic market, but also on the international market. We must, however, - and this is our institutional task - create with solid structural elements the appropriate regulatory framework so that the productive potential of the primary sector does not fall short of the actual productive effect. This draft law goes hand in hand with the formulation of a clear legislative framework, so that the action of all the participants in key sectors of the agricultural process is governed by definite rules, which will facilitate the development and adaptation of the agricultural sector to the current international market data. You will allow me, before I cross the contents of the draft law, to stand on a given given that often escapes our attention. I am thinking of the importance of combating the insecurity of law created by polynomialism, which is several times a operative cause of evil, but also red tape, which is preventing our development process over time. I believe that the Ministry, and because of the scientific status of the Minister, recognizeing this practical importance, is really making progress in a draft law, which puts it in a number of order, scattered provisions that 'close' the regulatory framework for both farmers and businesses engaged in the primary sector, which prevented the effective implementation of the provisions adopted by the public administration, and also discouraged investment and the expansion of bureaucracy, but also, in the end, the inability to increase the own, the actual result produced. With this bill, the Ministry acknowledges that quality legislation is a crucial multiplier factor in the development process. And that is a guarantee of success in the defined areas of application. Let's get to the articles now. I shall refer to Articles 27, 28 and 29, the great bet which we are about to face and which has also been a personal commitment by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, that is to say, the fight against the gangre of illegal Hellenisation of products, which is directly directed against the hardship of our farmers, against the Greek economy and, of course, against all of us, against the consumers themselves. The signal we are emitted today by this bill is clean, it is possible and addressed to all of them, who, for their own benefit, are fruiting our sweat fellow citizens, who are earned honestly by their agricultural activity. We are starting a race, which, yes, will not be easy at all, which will be difficult and will not be short at all. It will be continuous and lasting, but, believe me, it will also be victorious to protect agricultural income, protect the quality of our products and, in some cases, protect the health of our consumers. Now - and this must be heard rainwardly in the Chamber - anyone who tries to outlaw the agricultural economy will suffer the severe, criminal and administrative consequences of his actions. Ladies and gentlemen, illegal Greekism is not just another issue to deal with in the field of the rural economy. It is an issue that is at the heart of the problem, the problem that stands against the rural development process, but also against the productive model that we want for both today and tomorrow in the primary sector. As I have said many times in plenary, our effort was, is, is and will be to effectively link the term 'quality' to Greek products and, indeed, to highlight the export direction of the agricultural process to countries - objectives that can best support this model. We are now going forward forcefully, firstly, because our own products can support this position. Of course, you see that, according to all research and current trends, the qualitative criterion is constantly growing in consumer preferences worldwide. We are doing so, because also on the basis of the size, but also on the basis of the characteristics of our agricultural production, this business model can ensure better the creation of higher value added in our agricultural products, but it can ensure better and greater income for our farmers. That is why, when we say that some scientists are trying to falsify Greek products and they must be punished, they are, because what they are actually doing is distort the productive potential that our primary sector has. We must not let that happen at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be brief, Madam President, although Mr Simopoulos has given me one more minute. It is worth noting that the Vice-President of the ESA said attributes that beekeeping is for the first time mentioned in a draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And this government is doing it here. It supports practically the producers of a product, such as honey, which can, according to its organoleptic characteristics, be transformed into another national product that is leading internationally. We do so with our egg producers, who, as they have said attributes, look forward to joining the "ARTEMIS" database so that the day is distinguished from the wheat. All of this is nothing more than pieces of a puzzle, but a puzzle whose final image reveals the real picture of the productive potential of our primary sector, what we want. Our political will is a given one. We will turn the agricultural process into a pillar of progress and innovation. And that will now be the case, ladies and gentlemen, because opportunities are not expected. Times are short. Now's the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u312	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Vardakis will now be given the floor and immediately thereafter Mr Lambroulis will be followed by the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are proud and can tell us what support measures you have taken to date, because of the coronary, for the primary sector, but let me say that even if you want to sanctify, you are not leaving him. We heard yesterday and today government MPs who, instead of supporting this bill, for seven minutes accused SYRIZA of allegedly destroying the primary sector. You guys are probably from virginity. I remember that in 2016 together with Maki Balaura at the time, but also in 2018 with other Members, we had tabled questions about the drafting of a national plan for cannabis medication. What didn't drag us back then, what you didn't tell us! Today, really, what do you think? Let's see who the populists are. Did SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, give the loan and unscrupulous, sea-loving and subsidies to 'logues', which we are even paying today for fines? Don't say names. Mr. Vorides is away, but he's from time to time made some big packages. Has SYRIZA sold out the only disguise of farmers, the Agricultural Bank? Did SYRIZA dismantle the cooperatives and associations that were leading several years and deliver them to us in 2015 bankrupt and closed? Or did we deliver to us Land registers and forest maps so that we can function and do what several colleagues have suggested before that we have not done? I think it's good to get a little serious. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector is undoubtedly a strong pillar for the development of our country. The unprecedented conditions, which we experienced and continue to experience because of a health crisis, highlighted the great importance of the primary sector in the country's economic autonomy. Of course, government support so far has not come. The unorthodox policies you apply to the primary sector, even before the pandemic, do not solve problems but create problems. 2019 and 2020 was a disastrous year for the primary sector, which, as you all know, by the questions and reports that have been filed, is being pushed from everywhere. Indisposed the little olive oil and at degrading prices what was available. Restricted exports to the early horticultural and minimum disposal of agricultural products due to a restriction on popular markets. The extreme weather phenomena of the last few days. We saw something unprecedented: the third hail, Wednesday rain and Thursday 40 degrees temperature. Unfortunately, these weather conditions have given our farmers the graceful shot. Farmers, fishermen and farmers are faced with these huge problems. However, two months after the outbreak of the pandemic, they have not joined either the one-off aid or the reduction in the payment of the insurance contributions and, of course, any suspension of their financial obligations. You know that today many of the farmers and farmers, especially the farmers, have no money to pay, are at risk of a loss of electricity in pumping stations, because they have no money to pay for the electricity. We've asked for arrangements. No settings. Let this small measure of support. You announced 150 million for support measures for farmers. Empty letter. If I'm not mistaken, have you given 20-30 million and to whom? Not the farmers. Some private fish farms, if I'm not mistaken, and I don't know where else. Farmers and farmers have not yet seen the color of money. And you know very well, not from my own data, but from data from the Region of Crete that 150 million are damage to Crete alone in 2019-2020. The Minister is missing, although the minister found them on his own side, because he was in Crete and was applauded, but he was unfortunately on the applause, as you have said on many other issues, regarding the applause. Today a bill is introduced which contains no substantial support measures for the country's rural world. A bill that does not meet the real needs and yet its title mentions the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector. A bill that does not formulate a policy, which lacks the strategy to tackle the impact of the crisis. You are clearly weakening the control mechanisms and you are squeezing sanctions into a bill in which no targeting and vision is evident in particular, just administrative procedures, without an initiative to resolve many issues. The joint declaration of the twenty-seven Agriculture Ministers of the European Union is of paramount importance to the role that farmers and the wider agri-food sector have to play in maintaining food safety. Of course, we have also heard the UN food and agriculture warnings and the World Health Organisation about the risk of a food shortage on the world market. What exactly is your plan? If you can tell us, even now. The primary sector is affected by the unprecedented lack of government measures. As a government you must understand that it is your duty to support the primary sector, the quality primary sector, so that it can be a strong pillar for the development of the country. You brought a bill containing provisions which - but I confess to few exceptions - we will support, but it does not have a central account. It's no development perspective, no vision. But when he himself as Prime Minister of the country in the barbaric proclamations and especially in the last proclamation we were all waiting for, he did not find a word for farmers, farmers, fishermen, for fishermen, for the primary sector and for productive and food security, we did not expect anything more substantial than the Ministry of Rural Development. Indeed, can you tell us, even now, a measure that you took all the time, during the previous period, even for reasons of the coronary, but in particular for farmers, farmers and fishermen? Minister, change the door, change the policy. Finally, listen to the cry of the agony of our farmers, of the rural world. This is how you reap the social fabric of the country. Ignore all those who determine our nutritional adequacy and ultimately our way of life. The recession is dealt with by a plan, with the necessary liquidity in the real economy, using tools that will help the sustainability of the rural world, so that the productive process can begin where it has stopped. It is the least we can do as a sign of respect for the Greek producer, against society, which must remain upright. And finally understand, gentlemen of the government, that it is a criminal error to be absent from the huge problems of the primary sector. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, too. Now Mrs Anna Mani - Papademiriou from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Thrafaniotis from SYRIZA. Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could not be absent from the debate on a draft agricultural law, as I come from and live in a country of excellence, Pieria. In its blessed land, it thrives on every good and is cultivated with effort, effort and knowledge from farmers in our region. On the other hand, the word Pieria comes from the ancient word "piar" which is found in the era of Homer, meaning "good land". And, of course, I could not participate in a bill such as today, which literally gives a solution to a number of issues, corrects bureaucratic claws and - most importantly - introduces arrangements that modernise the primary sector of our country, such as the establishment for the first time of a national apiculture register and the establishment of a national programme for the collection and management of dead animals, which is appropriate in a modern European country. There is no doubt that the crown of the bill is the provisions of Articles 27 to 29 aimed at combating the scourge of illegal Greekisation of our agricultural products. An unfair practice that deprives Greek producers of significant incomes, deceives the consumer and may put public health at risk. The Government of New Democracy, respecting the struggle and sweating of Greek farmers and farmers, puts an end to the shameful gain and the illegal enrichment of certain scientists. Highly fines are now being introduced, reaching up to EUR 300,000 and subject to conditions even to EUR 600,000, and for the first time strict prison sentences are also provided. Furthermore, it is necessary to make the information of the unlawful undertaking and the temporary or definitive withdrawal of its authorisation available to it public. While one would expect the Qualified Opposition to stand up to the circumstances and welcome this important legislative initiative, on the contrary, it is trying to lower it, allegedly claiming that the Government is simply applying the relevant regulation of the European Union. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, what have you been doing for three years since the regulation was in force? Because, as you know, the regulation is part of European Union secondary law which applies as soon as it enters into force and does not enter into force with incorporation after a period of two years, as is the case with Community directives. Why have you not implemented him since 2017, so that we have a party of illegal Hellenism in the years of your administration? And we repeat that there is no specific penalty provided for in this regulation. The strict penalties that the government is enacting are a clear political choice and are implementing our Prime Minister Mitsotakis' pre-election commitment to combating the phenomenon of illegal Greekism. Furthermore, quite useful to our farmers is the provision to extend until 31 December 2020 the deadline for applying for the issuing of an authorisation for the establishment of livestock establishments. I am sure, Minister, that you will show the appropriate sensitivity to the support of our farmers who have suffered during the pandemic loss of income. The whole livestock world is anxiously awaiting your decisions. As for Article 17, it is certainly a good thing that further reinforcement of the ELGA is positive. As you have pointed out, Minister, but after years a serious task is being done by a committee responsible for a comprehensive reform of the issues of the ELGA. I am sure that the members of the committee will also deal with the important issue of the consequences of climate change on crops. Because we have seen in recent years, for example, from phytosanitary to tobacco growers and diseases occur in cherry, kiwi, vines and other crops, without negligence or poor care for our producers. I am sure that you will also give this issue a fair and sustainable solution, as you have so far done. I would like to thank you, because you have managed to resolve the serious problem of land workers raised by the pandemic in time. Thus, for the first time, it is possible for persons receiving an unemployment benefit to work in agricultural jobs without losing the unemployment benefit and, secondly, for the first time, for the first time, it is established as an insurance instrument for retiring workers. These are key interventions, so that there is no shortage of labour and our harvests are not lost this year. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. To close, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main objectives of the New Democracy Government is the overall reconstruction and modernisation of our country's primary sector. We want our young people to return to the region where they can work and live with prosperity and dignity. We want to give our young farmers, farmers and fishermen incentives and the necessary tools that will allow them to leave past past past past past practice behind and become competitive at international level. And why not, even many of our products become world market leaders. To stimulate and further support our exports through transnational agreements. We have recently seen the Greek ray, this important product of our country and my own country, Pierre, to conquer the markets of the East, Thailand and South Korea. And I want to congratulate the Minister and the Ministry for this success. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is another step towards upgrading and modernising the primary sector. There is a prior activation of the “grekfarms.gov.gr” platform that opened new roads for the disposal of Greek agricultural products and will follow other relevant initiatives. We stand next to the Greek farmer, farmers and fishermen, as the support of the primary sector is a matter of national importance and we ensure with design and methodicity the transition to the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u316	Me too, my colleague. Now Mr Thraniotis has the floor from SYRIZA. You have the floor for six minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Madam President. Let me thank Mr George Lambroulis for giving his position. Ladies and gentlemen, in the draft law under discussion, "Regions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food" one expects solutions to the daily, actual and structural problems of the rural economy, particularly in the current socio-economic conditions that are created in our country because of pandemic. Reading carefully, I tried to imagine the results from its implementation, when they apply to Lassithi Law. I refer to the prefecture not because it is my constituency, but because despite the depreciation of the years now, it has been a pioneer in both tourism and agricultural production, greenhouses, oil producers with excellent quality olive oil to win world prizes, Protected Designation of Origin, Protected Geographical Indication etc. And that is for the sake of the efforts and the share of the producers. It would have been expected, for example, that greenhouse gases over the years would have received scientific support. The government of SYRIZA was planning a research institute in the position of the deported and ultimately abandoned by you of the NISA government, which would contribute to research and scientific training for farmers. In the tourism sector and within the Hellenic Mediterranean University, the Institute of Economic Analysis of Entrepreneurship and Tourism was established, based in Agios Nikolaos. They are the ones Mr. Gerapitris considered as a success of your Government that he abolished them together with the two newly established schools, the School of Physical Education and Sport and the Physics School. And why all this? Not because they would contribute to the development of the country, not because they are not useful, but because, he says, they served pre-electional rhetoric, political purposes. If science’s contribution to development is considered to be pre-electional, then, indeed, science can raise hands. The day before yesterday, the establishment of Tour Schools was announced and quite rightly. Do they, too, serve pro-electional purposes or "move" - hear - 'a methodical and collective claim that will shield tourism', as the MEP Mr Kefaloyannis says in a press release? So two standards. In 2019, no one expected that the destruction of olive oil with a loss of more than 100m euros would be the precursor of a dangerous recession and of the prefecture, that the coronary pandemic would follow, in order to make the situation more desperate and jeopardise financially, with the expected recession in tourism. Let me note that Lassithi has about ten to twelve thousand people employed in tourism. 70% is estimated not to work this year. Unfortunately, winter is unfortunately going on, especially for workers, microprofessionals, farmers and farmers. Olive oil production, as we said, has been damaged by more than 75%, as in the rest of Crete, while this year it has suffered damage to flowers, due to the heat. Even the oil produced in the previous olive-growing season remains indisposed at a low price due to the extensive damage caused by the torch, unprecedented, but from now on rather common, due to climate change. Destructions also existed from extreme weather phenomena, such as tornadoes in the area of Ierapetra, from floods, while pandemic did not leave the greenhouse farming unaffected. I will testify for the Practical Graphs of Twenty Producers in Crete, which demonstrates that in the period from the last week of March until the first week of April almost 80% of production remained indisposed, with more damage to tomatoes and cucumber, while the price went down below the cost price. At the peak of production, Lockdown caused considerable damage to producers, as we said. They've been requested and sent to the Ministry for compensation. Of course, something similar happened with livestock farming. Prices of products - meat, dairy - especially in Easter days, have fallen down. How is this situation dealt with? We have tabled concrete proposals costing producers and farmers, measures which will relieve and restore part of the damage, reduce production costs and, above all, enable producers to grow again. Otherwise, they are at risk of being outside production. There are possibilities, using all the financial instruments to support the agricultural sector. As far as the articles are concerned, I would like to point out that Article 4 speaks of protecting agricultural and natural capital. Here, there are some questions: What do we mean, for example, natural agricultural capital? Who is responsible for its management? How is it protected? The geoparks, for example, where do they belong? I mention this because within the geoparents it is planned to set up industrial wind turbines, so-called WMPs. You will allow me to refer to the livestock facilities. Other colleagues have mentioned this. We must finally end this process, because the operation of livestock units without authorisation is at the expense of animal health and the environment, and there are at the same time public health risks. Articles 9 and 10 refer in particular to beekeeping. However, it concerns all agricultural production and is designed to control, protect products and consumers. Control must be rigorously promoted by the tripartite: production, marketing, consumption and strict application of legislation. As far as fisheries regulations are concerned, I would like to point out the approval of the Programme and the inclusion in the Operational Programme 'Fishery and Sea 2014-2020', as well as the adoption of a EUR 475 000 amount for the study of alien species, including rabbit-headed species - know those involved in fisheries - who have destroyed the fishing industry and the gear of fishermen. Finally, with regard to agricultural crime, other colleagues have also been mentioned. At long last, care must be taken and measures taken, Minister, to protect farmers' property from a few, fortunately, but in violation of the laws of farmers. There are places. Mr Voloudakis - and I would like to point out this - has mentioned some proposals. I think it's in the right direction to combat infraction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u318	Madam President, I would like the floor to make a correction and to record it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u319	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u320	I said, at the edge of my speech, an hour ago when I was talking about the new programme of the Ministry of Culture and Sport entitled 'All Greece a culture', which I described as 'all Greece as an enormous artistic predator', is a programme costing 20 million euros. The reality is that it costs 2 million euros. I'm talking about the Minutes. I say that the Greek people also know what huge sums the Greek Government gives culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. George Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Madam President. As our rapporteur said yesterday, but also in today's debate, the bill concerns a number of articles on their content, which mainly aim to manage malfunctions, or issues of competence that have arisen, at both the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as well as the supervised agencies, as well as the corresponding facilities, adaptations to the guidelines of the European Union, etc. We believe that under no circumstances does the bill promote solutions and does not respond to the acute problems and needs of farmers and farmers, but also does not meet the needs of workers, both in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, and in its supervisory bodies. For example, you may promote the recruitment of two legal persons to ELGA, in order to deal with cases, complaints from accumulated farmers - it is necessary, no one disagrees - but at the same time, with ELGA, sub-selling has hit red, both in geotechnical, but also in administrative, staff. The situation over pressurised has, of course, repercussions on the work and services of the specified organism. In fact, the situation is getting worse, as geotechnical contractors were fired during the pandemic period, while the mobility tool moves personnel to squeeze holes, opening others. At the same time, the average age of permanent staff is over 50, which means and confirms that the necessary recruitment has not been carried out, on the other hand, this potential in the coming years will begin to go away because of retirement and further exacerbating the situation. Precisely, this deception that all governments have been responsible for has been touching the declared goal for years to privatise the ELGA. Moreover, the work is well known, as has happened - and it is happening - in a number of areas of responsibility of the state, since it is a political choice for all governments to date. And it is precisely these policies that ELGA does not have geoponists, veterinary surgeons and other specialties necessary. I am in this context, all the Agriculture Ministers and the Governments recognise these shortcomings, but nothing has happened to this day. This need rests on the issues of ELGA's operation by extending the provision of services to farmers for a timely, valid, but also a direct diagnosis, recording, compensation for the damage caused by farmers' and farmers' production, respectively, and the plant and livestock capital. In this policy conducted over time and successively by all governments, ELGA has been converted into a rural insecurity organisation, imposing on farmers growers increased and chewed premiums, while not being given real insurance cover. Besides, for a decade now, ELGA has been relying solely on the insurance contributions of farmers and farmers, since all governments have successively not given one euro to ELGA since 2011, although in its rules of operation that governments voted should be granted EUR 30 million to EUR 35 million each year. The result is even the operational costs of ELGA to be covered by the insurance contributions from farmers and farmers. As a result, and the money given as compensation is less than what the farmers and farmers pay to the ELGA. These go hand in hand with small, lazy and unfair compensation for producers that are not compensated, since the ELGA regulation does not cover all the damages and does not compensate 100% of production, while the damages to capital - animal, plant, etc. - it refers to the crustaceans of the PSEA, and this is conditional, although even when they will receive a small proportion of compensation. Furthermore, a series of spring crops, which we have also shown through parliamentary control, for example, in Thessaly, but also in Larissa, Magnesia, Carditsa, Trikala, have been destroyed by weather phenomena. Farmers will stay without income. What are you gonna do? How they will be able to do so, whether it is about what is necessary for their survival, whether it is about the costs of farming their fields or about meeting the ravages, the tax burden, the cheap premiums. And not the number of needs arising from your measures and policies and previous governments, burdening farmers with unfavourable financial burdens. At the same time as you are covering ministers, governments behind the ELGA regulation - because the previous governments and the Ministers for Rural Development did so - behind a regulation that really needs to be changed, you are not taking any measure to make up for lost income or a series of economic aid measures and relief measures for the affected. In fact, you come and use the pandemic with the financial measures you are promoting and in the agricultural sector you are supporting with funds, with cheap loans, subsidies for wholesale and industrial food. As far as the farmer is concerned, there is nothing to be said about. For them, the continuing extortion of major traders, traders and industrialists is good enough to channel and deliver their productions under the cost of production, while at the same time gaining at the expense of both producers and consumers. The recent example of milk and sheep and goatmeat sold to dealers in Easter shows exactly that direction. Is it really one of the modernistic measures, such as the title of the bill, the provision of a reward fee for the dead animals to be charged by the producer? Why, of course, must measures be taken, that health, the rules for the collection and management of dead animals by diseases and go by saying, but the question is: Who will pay? You load them to the producer, adding another burden, while we say and suggest that this service should and should be provided free of charge by the government departments. Or, for example, in the article on the issues of energy projects, the main thing is that a responsibility is transferred from the Ministry of Rural Development to local administration. Thus, the administration, operation and maintenance of the existing or those who will be built are charged to the municipalities. They are therefore transferred to the municipalities without the relevant resources. And how will the municipalities manage them and support them? With what personal funds, funds, etc.Huh? Why do you all know and we all know that most municipalities are doomed, so what happens? The most likely is that these projects will also be given through the municipalities to private individuals, namely privatisation, and of course public farmers and livestock farmers will pay new raisins. In addition to its technical nature, therefore, the bill is to supplement and contribute with its various provisions to strengthening this policy in favour of business groups, industrialists and large-scale traders, which are, of course, being implemented in the agricultural and livestock sectors. It is precisely because you are serving all the governments the profit, the supreme law of the capitalist system, that you cannot, even if you do not want, give a solution to the enormous and prosperous problems of farmers and farmers, especially small and medium-sized farmers. This policy needs to be targeted and overthrown by farmers and farmers, who see the nipple every day tightening in their necks, leading them to tearing and rooting off their land and their livelihood. It's up to them. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Liupis has the floor now from New Democracy and then Mr Gocas from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the regeneration of the primary sector is high priority in government policy. The recent experience in the past has shown us that an economy based on services and seriously suffering in the primary sector is also vulnerable and exposed to serious risks. That is why the regulations contained in today's bill are the tool that ensures an efficient and profitable rural economy. The bill under discussion contains many important provisions which address the serious problems of agricultural production, livestock and fisheries. The apiculture provisions are innovative and its implementation will give a significant boost to domestic production and marketing of honey. The creation of the National Electronic Beekeeping Register and the mandatory individual beekeeping identity, instead of the booklet that was in place to date, give the Greek beekeeping new prospects. The Greek honey, which is of excellent quality and exportable product, which is effectively protected under current regulations, will take its place in international trade. In the same sense, another big issue that ensures today's bill is the protection of domestic products of animal origin. The recording of egg balances and the online connection of the production, collection, packaging and marketing undertakings in the electronic system ‘ARTEMIS’ of the ELGO ‘DIMITRA’ was a consistent request from the undertakings in the industry. One of the most important initiatives in today's bill is to combat consumer misleading about food origin. The huge and chronic problem of the Greekization of products is at the heart of the provisions. For the first time, the necessary legislative initiative is taken to tighten administrative sanctions and to treat criminal offences more seriously. A characteristic example is that to date, for illegal practices relating to misleading food labelling, a fine of only EUR 500 to EUR 30 000 was foreseen, while the new provisions are at least EUR 30 000 and a maximum of EUR 30 000. Equally significant tightening of sanctions exists for PDO products, designation of origin of protected geographical indication, guaranteed traditional specialities guaranteed, and of course for organic products. And here the administrative fines start with the 30,000 euros. Finally, the new criminal provisions include even the possibility of publishing the defendant's information, at least two years' imprisonment, as well as a financial penalty. Therefore, the new strict criminal sanctions in conjunction with the new high fines are deterrent factors for those who are illegal and Greek-based foods. A chronic problem with many extensions is the collection and management of dead animals, especially in the region. It passes the management of the programme in the region by means of a fee payable by each farm on the basis of the number of live animals declared in the integrated information system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Arrhythmias shall be organised with the enhancement of projects by transferring responsibilities to local government where appropriate for the effective functioning of the projects. While in cases of failure to draw up the management plans for grazing, the services of the Ministry of Finance are responsible for their completion for the absolute protection of our scholarship. One point which has arisen, Mr Minister, is the issue of recovery as you have heard other speakers. I know you found it in your ministry drawer when we took over. I know that you have made the best possible adjustment, but it creates a great financial problem in many healthy, profitable, innovative, export cooperatives. When the subject was raised, thirty years ago, today’s governors were primary schoolchildren. Please try to find a better solution to this issue. Today's bill does not simply solve problems of the primary sector that have been ponding for many years. It is a bill setting the foundations for efficient agricultural and livestock production. Finally, Minister, I should like to bring you an issue that has been afflicting many years now farmers who had received loans from the Agricultural Bank, which is currently being wound up. In some cases there has been a fall in the Greek State's guarantees, so farmers are accused of debts and of course many of them have been acquitted after long-term courts. However, whole livestock and poultry farms remain in disuse and abandonment because of these penal loose ends. They are estimated to be about two thousand with an average of facilities around five thousand square meters. It is an issue that I hope at some point you will be able to see more thoroughly and find a fair solution to the reopening and resurgence of the facilities for the benefit of the primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u325	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Gocas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the bill itself and its specific provisions are concerned, I believe that the debate has been virtually exhausted by the meetings of the committees. With several provisions we do not disagree, while our rapporteur was very detailed and has tabled our own proposals. The problems in the primary sector are many. Prices of low, high production costs, taxes and levies, reduced demand for products and certainly a lack of liquidity leading to a lack of farming and farming of animal populations with disastrous consequences. The main problem at the moment is in the pocket of farmers, farmers, farmers and fish farmers. All primary sectors should be integrated into the affected enterprises. Aid and financing measures were announced. The amounts are inadequate, they can only cover part of the producers or businesses. The primary sector should also be included in the framework of public-guaranteed funding, the aid should cover those who actually produce and must maintain their productive activity for the food adequacy of our country, for the survival of the primary sector, since at least we all agree that it is a key pillar for our country's productive, economic and development reconstruction. But what plan? These two days, together with the previous ones, we should discuss an integrated plan for the development of the primary sector and not a few fragmentary arrangements. There is a need to finance new aid with sufficient resources. The amount of resources to be allocated and the allocation criteria should be known. From the Recovery Fund, what amount corresponds to the agricultural sector, whether as aid or as financing? The possibility of using the 465 million returnable as a guarantee for financing either infrastructure or income support in the primary sector should also be considered. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a closer look at a number of sectors in my region, in Arta and Epirus, to illustrate more specifically the picture that exists in general. Breeding. Very dynamic sector for the economy, particularly in Arta, which is mainly based on the primary sector, but also on Epirus, which totals 70% of production. By March 5, production and sales were on the upward trend of 10% to 15% compared to the corresponding period of 2019 and all industry designs were upward. With the pandemic, by 15 March there was a first 30% increase, but then normally the fall came to 20% to 30%, because the focus was closed, hotels closed, exports decreased. So we had a drop in prices on the market, a drop in the value of products, of chickens stored in freezers by 50% and an additional cost. In addition, producers were forced to reduce or even suspend farms, which automatically means loss to their annual income. Also, hundreds of thousands of hatching eggs were destroyed. The farmers, as you know, are not supported by any measures of the CAP. In addition, producers are not included in the SMRs of the affected sectors, unlike processing and feeding. Without producers, what can these branches do? And that must be corrected. The industry has proposed a series of measures to support and promote the market in Greek chickens, the disposal of frozen social groups and structures, while poultry farming, as well as sheep and goatmeat and other livestock should be integrated into the DE MINIMIS programme precisely because of a reduction in income. As regards sheep and goatmeat, the low prices for the disposal of lamb plants in Easter are known, even below EUR 2, as are the low milk prices and high production costs. Many farmers are no longer incapable of keeping the flocks and many are looking to sell them. Pig farming. We have a drop in demand, an increase in animal weight, an increase in costs and a fall in prices. Fish farms. They are mainly based on exports which have been zeroed at the present time. Enterprises are no longer able to nullify the animal populations. Immediate measures, immediate solutions, without further delays, are required. Now, with regard to the other issues, I will only focus on two, the need not only for an extension, but also for a definitive solution to the issue of residence permits without unnecessary procedures and supporting documents, but also on the importance of preventing the problem of illegal Greekism, as well as the application of the existing framework and the new provisions that will be voted on. As far as the apiculture regulation is concerned, apiculture is a dynamic sector, with products of particular quality, and this product must also be protected against unfair competition and fraud, and that is why the provision to be voted on is a good thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For ELGA, we have said a lot about how it was cleared in 2010, and it had debts of 3.8 billion, about the regulation that was not able to be completed in 2014, about the 50 million of its reserves, taken in 2015 and never returned to the public. Public insurance must be supported and, above all, a change in the regulation must go ahead to anticipate damages and diseases caused by extreme weather and climate change. I want your tolerance, Madam President, for a minute. To close, Minister, I would like to refer to the recent serious quartzfall in Arta, as in other regions and the disasters caused by agricultural crops. In some areas of the camp and for certain crops, especially in kiwi, we have a total destruction in the fruit, especially in the villages of the Kapodistrian Municipality of Arachthos, Kopotiou and other villages. The damage is large in citrus fruit, corn, olives, horticulture and other crops. There are disasters and damages to trees, especially to new plants and plants. I saw on the spot the incalculable damage. For the kiwi, 25% of the income was lost for the county, but for the producers in these areas 100% of the income. There is desperation, but also anguish for the next few years, since the destruction of stems will result in acarpia for the next two, three years, but diseases will also occur in trees and plants of fungi and bacteria. First, the consequences for the producers themselves, but also for the local economy based on the primary sector, will be serious. Minister, the producer's income only goes to production. However, you are due to the immediate record of the damages - the office of ELGA Epirus has already been activated - to ensure that the compensation is paid immediately to 100% and to eliminate all possibilities from the programmes concerned and damage to the trees themselves, beyond production, as well as provision to cover loss of income from the De minimis programme. To provide specific provision for these cases through the general support and financing programmes of the primary sector and address the consequences of the pandemic, which is still under way. Finally, Minister, an extensive grant programme should be launched by the ELGA, as well as other resources for the establishment of anti-hail systems. As long as we go, these phenomena will be more frequent with damage to everyone. So something else has to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Vartzopoulos from New Democracy and Mr Avramakis is being prepared by SYRIZA. Mr. Varzopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u328	Madam President, Minister, former Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great deal and all very important and essentially what this bill deals with. Allow me to clarify the most important ones in my view: the upgrading of agricultural accounting information, the creation of the register with an individual identity of beekeeping capital, the creation of the "APPEMIS" digital platform, where the activity of the businesses producing and marketing eggs will be monitored, so that there is also traceability, and at the same time the possibility of controlling illegal Greekisations, which are really innovative tools for developing the primary economy. It is very important that you try to involve the local authorities in the operation of the Improvement Services either through the funding of the EDP of the regions or through the supervision of the e-government projects by the Local Authorities 1-degree. If we can at some point, Minister, because you are well aware of the issue and have legislated on the recruitment of staff - we can see from the outset how the GFCM is set up and running. It is very important that it is a real relief for the livestock sector that it is given the opportunity to legalise its facilities in or near settlements by the end of the year. Even greater relief is the fact that you are giving the Ministry the opportunity to approve pilgrimage management plans, when the regions are unable to do so - which is often done - and in simple terms with the view of the forestry authorities. Let us hope that we can use this in other similar situations. It is very important that specific rules on the movement of veterinary medicinal products are laid down, thus shielding public health, but also the role, dignity and independence of the veterinary scientist. In this regard, the management plan for dead animals, which ensures both livestock and public health and the way the livestock is working, is also important. You are right to engage in technical education, giving specific guidance on the certification and functioning of professional schools of meat and editors, which really shows how important you are in technical education. Unfortunately, however, the fact that you are forced to do this shows the fragmentation of technical education, an issue that should concern us next week in the debate on the draft education legislation. That's right - that's right! - tighten both fines and checks concerning the use of the designation of origin and geographical indication of traditional and specific products and organic farming and livestock farming. But it is very important, Minister, that these controls, apart from places of production and marketing, should also be extended to the mixed steps in the roads, something that does not belong to you, which is not your responsibility, to the regions. It is, however, good to put pressure on everyone in this direction. You are right to try - and I believe you will - to reduce substantially the time for the approval of integrated aquaculture development regions by automatic approval of their rules of procedure. If we can, Minister, at some point, get rid of the burden of the Presidential Decree, approve of the PDO by ministerial decision, and even by setting specific compulsory time for the services. It is right to prohibit fishing from so-called purse seines, i.e. vessels with circular fishing networks in the night and every Sunday after the full moon, because this is the way to normalise working week and prevent youth from being employed and, as the fishermen say, there are conditions for the creation of national crews. However, in this fisheries sector, Minister, unfortunately, we must note a serious malfunction. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that the main objective of the European Common Agricultural Policy in the fisheries sector is the sustainable management of catches and the corresponding protection of the environment. The question is that in this area, in our region, in the Aegean Sea and in the Eastern Mediterranean, this is not possible under the sole responsibility of the Turkish fishermen. The Turkish fishing fleet does not adopt and follow European provisions, European rules, neither as regards the number of vessels nor their capacity. They tell me very typically that outside Porto Lagos, Minister, in the six miles of the Turkish coast, purse seines - their own fish with nets of double size and double and triple - intensity. Last year my known porter at Agathonisi told me that as soon as the period of our own trawlers stopped, theirs came out and literally surrounded the island. This means something very important, it means that the Greek fleet, which is satellite-controlled and with electronic entries, is at a disadvantage, is working in an unfavourable competition regime. The people in northern Greece are flooded by cheap Turkish fish, even the discarded find their way on the benches of the people. This means that the European common fisheries policy does not fulfil its purpose, does not fulfil its objective, not with our responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the European Union has exclusive legal power to conclude fisheries agreements with third countries. This means, Minister, that we have to ask the Commissioner for agreement on the Turkish side and compliance with the Community rules. This should be done not only by electronic means, but also by natural means, and if they do not want to be controlled by our own port, which is the only European power in the region, let us ensure that FRONTEX is strengthened so that it can do so. If this is not done or if the Turks do not want it, the only way, Mr Minister, is to ask the Commissioner to terminate the agreement of the European Union with Turkey on fishing in 1990 and, at the same time, to activate the old decision of the Council of Europe in 1983 on the establishment of twelve nautical mile fishing zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u329	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Avramakis now has the floor from SYRIZA to prepare Mrs Skondra from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, whether a government is effective if it responds to the needs of society, whether it works in the collective interest or not, in practice, on the basis of the initiatives it is developing and not on communication, in a communication in which, of course, with the help of the systemic media you get excellent. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, whose legislative intervention and initiative we are debating today, has sometimes expressed political views and positions on every subject. But it has not succeeded almost a year after taking up its duties to describe the main political direction, the strategy pursued by the government in terms of farmers, farmers and fishermen, the productive forces of the primary sector. Serres Prefecture is an excellence agricultural and livestock county. Neither do friends who are looking to the government farmers and farmers know your plans, if any. The logic of "seeing and doing" that you follow with wonderful consistency on all the issues of the central political scene - with the exception of serving specific interests of the economic elite - has an impact on the primary sector. The average farmer, the average farmer, has become poorer every day since the New Democracy took responsibility for governance. The coronary is accelerating this poverty and you do nothing to protect professional farmers and farmers. Apply semimeters that you advertise as large interventions. You lose time and every day that the recession passes is growing. What is your plan to support the farmer and the farmer at these difficult times? In the Serres Prefecture before the koron virus we had an African swine fever case, resulting in a ban on any sale of pigmeat. We have tabled a question to the House on how you are thinking, among other things, of compensate for the huge loss of income suffered before the coronary and for a long time. No answer until today! It followed the lockdown that has actually caused great suffocation to all farmers and farmers. Products not sold or sold, practically sold. I still have the complaint from the Association of Thessaly farmers. They reported that they were selling lambs in front of Easter, during the pandemic period, from 2 to 4 euros and that they were marketed between 12 and 15 euros a kilo. You say you cannot intervene because there is a free market. However, the prices of producers, farmers and farmers could be protected if you do not overthrow the policy of strengthening the cooperatives implemented by the SYRIZA Government, through your only legislative initiative to date, or if you strengthen the control mechanisms. You have proceeded and stopped the subometer 8.1 on the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity. You have stopped the sub-section of 8.2 on strengthening agri-food systems as well as adapting to climate change at farm level, total cost and EUR 100 million. These could be disbursed by our farmers and our farmers, and this would result in environmental gains and the development of new dynamic crops. Stop measure 11 for organic crops by bringing to a dead end thousands of producers who have invested funds to convert their conventional crops to biological ones. Although there is the right for the country to implement a two-year extension of this measure at a cost of just about EUR 55 million, you choose to leave nine thousand two hundred sixty-six rural families, who have invested on the basis of this programme, at times. You did not answer a question we tabled in March. Let's see if you're going to answer a new question we've tabled. At the beginning of April, we asked you a question about the initiatives you have taken or intend to take to open up the Russian market in Greek agricultural products, since, because of the coronary situation, Russia wanted to revise its policy of banning the countries of the European Union. You didn't do anything. Is that your policy on rural development and improving the position of farmers and farmers in the country? Can't you take any initiative, exert pressure, fight for something better with regard to the absorption of products? We have tabled a question since February asking for explanations of the fact that the regions of Central Macedonia and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace are mainly rural, although they belong to the poorest regions of Greece and Europe, and although significant investment has been made under measure 4.1 for the improvement plans, they have remained in the last place for the funding from the rural development programme. And this despite the revisions you have made and despite your commitments that two out of three proposals will be financed. In Central Macedonia, it is a question of whether they will ultimately finance one of the three proposals. That's not good enough. Even the few projects that have been approved and that have been included in the rural development programme which concern Serres Law, such as the work to modernise and save the water and energy resources of the Nigritas TEI, which the SYRIZA Government has approved and guaranteed its funding of EUR 6.5 million, is in the air and is in danger of being denied because your final state has not been able to auction for a year. I wonder what responsibility the tenders are slowing down and what will happen if the work is resolved by the way? The responsibility is solely yours. But you have brought to your official interlocutors so-called self-determination agencies such as HSY. I have a complaint, which I can make in the minutes, from the President of the Nigritas TEI, who does not recognize this body as a representative of the farmers because he believes and says he is not represented in the TEI. I don't know. I'm giving it for investigation. See it and evaluate it. You celebrate because thanks to the actions of the SYRIZA Government and the support of Italy and Spain, the country has been vindicated in legal disputes with the European Commission as regards aid for pastures 2009-2012. A total of EUR 346 million is reimbursed. Avoid answering to the critical question by what process and when this money will be given to farmers, to primary production. It's their money. It's not the state's money. It's not your money. You can't handle them as you think they are. The delays in the performance of this money are not justified. Now they need them, and now we have to give them to the beneficiaries. You have taken a number of measures to support coronary-affected enterprises that are not sufficient to limit the crisis. They are not permanently excluded by farmers and farmers. Part of these measures are actually financed by farmers themselves. I mention the government's decision to suspend for seventy-five days the repayment of the cheques which were paid during the quarantine. It facilitated business but caused a dead end to those farmers and farmers who had checks and could not be paid. There was no corresponding concern to facilitate farmers and farmers in returning their obligations. The result is that dozens of farmers cannot supply seeds, pesticides and fertilisers and are in danger of being left out of production by owed a lot of money to their suppliers. In this case it is a private difference. But when farmers and farmers must be paid by purchasers of their products, the state intervenes and moves the payment for later. You support right and left that you are on the side of the producers and you will do everything in order to pay the lost income from the effects of the coronary. You are giving, for example, reduced aid to cattle compared with last year and too late. We have tabled a question to the House to explain to us how this was done. A few days ago you assured the farmers that not only will the aid that they are entitled to be reduced but will also be slightly increased. What took place and finally received aid reduced by 8.5% per eligible animal? You must answer. What caused the time delay in the performance of these aids at a time when farmers' incomes were declining and could not be paid on time? You have not developed any strategy to reduce production costs, but instead it has increased considerably. On the pretext of the krone, you are relocating to the future any intervention to reduce taxes that increase the price of agricultural oil that is a key source in the production process itself. We owe Greece, as a political system, to take appropriate legislative action.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u332	I shall conclude, Madam President. A number of other initiatives must also be taken in the direction of reducing feed, pesticides, fertilisers which can facilitate farmers in the production process and reduce production costs. I don't have any more time. In conclusion, I would like to say that the initiative of the electronic apiculture register is positive. It really is in a positive direction and we welcome it. Of course, it is not a serious and innovative intervention, but it is certainly in a positive direction. We welcome it and support it. Finally, I would like to refer to the ELGA. You have not presented us with an essential policy for modernising the ELGA, Mr Voridis. We must respond convincingly to this world which is constantly suffering from natural disasters and wants the support body, the ELGA, next to it, to directly reflect the damage and directly compensate farmers. Unfortunately, this cannot be done. Here there are reasonable concerns he has raised even your own Member
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Colleague, thank you. You've reached nine and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u334	I'm done. I would just like you to answer what will happen with the Greek industry of Zacharis, Minister. It's a serious matter, Mr. Voridis. There is great anxiety in the rural world of the prefecture about whether to operate the sugar factory this year in the county and under what conditions. There are the customs producers, the customs exporters, the people who expect to see the prospect. If you have anything to tell us, we'd appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u335	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament, of a purely agricultural prefecture, as a man who served the agricultural world for thirty and two consecutive years through agricultural services, but also as a trade unionist for a 20-year period in my workplace, we have always claimed the upgrading and better functioning of agricultural services for the benefit of the production process and farmers. I am very pleased that today, on the initiative of our Minister, Maki Voridis, they are being arranged, modernised, clarified and settled issues that have been pending unregulated and inapplicable for many years. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that all these loose ends, however small they seemed, were a great brake on the implementation and functioning of any agricultural policy. It was a stagnation in procedures, endless suffering and many times unnecessary expenses for farmers themselves. Sometimes self-evident is asked for. At the same time, customs provisions or decisions in practice are not applicable. Knowledge, experience and insight are needed here. So, having this experience and knowing at the same time that the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector is a key priority for this government, I think it is very important that the racist part of the bill, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, about three months ago the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development legislated and changed the framework of agricultural cooperatives. Today it presents another important bill that solves problems in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and apiculture. It eliminates obstacles, simplifies bureaucratic gears, modernises structures. However, it is not confined to interventions, amendments and simplifications. It also comes into serious issues, such as that of illegal Greekism and fraud in food, which employs almost all the productive classes in the primary sector of our country, this big problem which, on the one hand, reduces agricultural income and, on the other, deceives consumers, since they do not know what they eat or whether it is safe and they pay it as authentic. Illegal Greekism, therefore, beyond other things, undermines a basic objective, namely the quality of our products and their protected designation of origin. How, then, can we rely on and convince about their quality when they are distorted? How really can the right producer become competitive under such circumstances? For the first time, therefore - and quite rightly so - the administrative fines for these infringements are vertically used. Provision is made for the suspension of the operation of the undertaking and for the disclosure of the data of the illegal persons and a criminal regime is put in place. Our Prime Minister has promised us in the election to strike off these phenomena. We promised everyone, but also our farmers for milk, meat and all derivatives. Today is the beginning, as I imagine, Minister, that you will organise the control mechanisms and intensify controls. After all, I must tell you that throughout the country, but also in my region of Carditsa, our producers and farmers are waiting for it, to feel justified, to see their hardships, to be able to live their families and to study their children. The National Electronic Apiculture Register is being established and it is essential that we know as an organised state how many and who are beekeepers so that the industry can be organised and supported. I would also like to focus on extending the deadline for issuing a permit for livestock establishment. This is a matter, Minister, which must at some point be permanently resolved to stop the farmers' classifications and anguishs, of course with the help of local government. It improves the framework for the transfer of European works to municipalities and ceases TWGs from a seventy-year framework. The bill regulates a lot of issues, but for the economy of time I will only sum up some, such as the programme for the collection and management of dead animals. It regulates fisheries issues, ensures the operation of cannabis plant and facilitates the work of the prosecution authorities where necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is especially a rural country. In the agricultural sector, over one million families are employed, without counting those who are indirectly related to the production process. It is the area that can ensure self-sufficiency. This is very important, that is to say, for a state to feed its people. It generates direct revenues in the national economy, in the commercial balance and in exports, and I believe that it is the basis on which a new beginning of industrialisation of our country can be based, that is to say, to fuel the secondary and tertiary manufacturing sector. Once from Athens to Livadia, the road was full of femurs, weavings, sports, etc. Now the deaf buildings are left to remind us of past greatness and we import everything, by giving the added value that farmers, processors and the country would gain. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Madam President. The agricultural sector is one of these key pillars, along with shipping and tourism, on which our national economy is founded. The pandemic, however, showed us that it is the most stable and resilient pillar. He also showed us other points on which we need to focus, so that we can shield our country in exceptional and unfavourable situations. It is well known that your area of responsibility, Minister, is enormous and complex. Includes the plant and animal kingdom, including the wealth of the sea and the sky. Any policies which must be implemented within the defined European framework. The same is known, however, for your own abilities, your State Secretarys and your partners, but above all the decision by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us to give impetus to the primary sector that is crucial to the relaunch of the country after the pandemic, but above all to the general development path of Greece. In the months we are running a series of initiatives prove this decision, the effort being made to secure resources from the new CAP, the reduction of taxation for producer groups and cooperative schemes, the law on cooperatives, support for producers affected by the pandemic, the resolution of the problem with land workers and the herd, the right of pensioners to work with cultivation, an increase of EUR 107 million in the LEADER programme. That's what today's bill does, and I think a lot more will follow. Here, Mr Minister, I would like to raise the question of the old officials of the agricultural cooperative associations who have been receiving them for years. The provision abolished by SYRIZA must be restored to precede recovery in order to settle this issue. The afforestation programme must also continue because it is multifaceted. My own Karditsa farmers, like all over the country, expect a lot of us, Minister, precisely because we traditionally supported the farming world as a new democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Mr Nikolakopoulou will then speak from New Democracy and then Mr Aylonite will speak from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on upgrading and modernising the agricultural sector is extremely important because, as we all know, the primary sector is an important development pillar in our country. It is an area that can and must play a special role in the recovery of our economy and is directly interlinked with the development of local societies. As Parliamentary spokesman for the Ilias Prefecture, a region with high agricultural skills, I am well aware of what the agricultural sector has offered to our place. I am also well aware of the concerns of our farmers and farmers, the problems and challenges facing us in difficult economic circumstances, such as the ones we are currently experiencing, but also because of uncertain factors affecting production, the market and consumption. Steady and constantly working with both the Ministry of Rural Development, the co-operating ministers, and ELGA, to promote solutions to Elijah's problems, such as the recent incalculable damage due to the heat in olive oil production, as well as ensuring compensation from ELGA for the damages to the plant and animal capital of 2019, a problem which has been incalculablely affected, among other things, by the potato of the Law of Elijah due to the unfair competition imposed on Greek products. The bill we are about to vote on today, ladies and gentlemen, comes to give a solution to this permanent request by producers from all over the country through the introduction of a strict legal framework. Unfortunately, as our experience in the past has shown us, administrative sanctions have not only been fragmentary but also particularly diligent. As a result of this mistaken policy, the phenomenon of illegal Hellenism was to be gigantic, resulting in the damage of the actual Greek producers or processors of corresponding products and, of course, the misuse of the consumer. However, today, with this bill, we are making a clear political commitment to the Greek people and especially to Greek farmers, traders and producers who, despite their calls, have been helpless on the part of the Greek state. Our aim is to fight hard against Greekism and to shield the position of Greek agricultural products by protecting our national economy. And that is what we are doing today through a bill establishing a strict regulatory framework. This provides for five years of imprisonment and 300,000 euros, which can reach 600,000 euros when the turnover is over 10 million euros and exceed 600,000 euros when the illegal profit is greater for those who cheat as Greek foreign products and foods. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an institutional framework without a legislative precedent, which expresses the clear will of the government to combat unfair competition between Greeks and mimicism that undermines the integrity of Greek products, kills producers' incomes and misleads consumers. This is a clear political choice that sends a clear message to all the aspiring Greeks, that they will face severe penalties and not waste penalties, as was the case with the previous government of SYRIZA, while the elements of the Greek publishers will now be made public by order of the competent prosecutor. In this battle will make a significant contribution to the creation of the National Electronic Beekeeping Register, which will act as a useful tool in the fight against Hellenisations through the monitoring of the honey market and the surveillance of imports of honey and beekeeping products. At the same time, we are dealing with the issue of fraudulent foods through the introduction of a special regulation that was not in the past. It is particularly important that this bill introduces an increased social inefficiency offence, a prison sentence of at least three years or a penalty of money against any person with intention to produce, import, export, store, move or dispose of food which, when established by the competent authority, is distorted and harmful to his health. This draft law also establishes a specific strict framework for the protection of products of protected designation of origin and protected geographical indication, which was not foreseen until now, in order to create a strong grid of protection for the offenders. And that, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that these products are the country's special national wealth and their reputation and protection are inextricably linked to the incomes of producers and the well-being of local society and of course of our national economy. In conclusion, I would like to focus on two more important regulations introduced through this legislative initiative. The first relates to the temporary employment of unemployed persons registered in OAED registers for agricultural work, without this being a reason to stop unemployment subsidies, a regulation that comes to tackle not only the problem of the lack of workers' hands in agricultural production, but also the problem of unemployment. The second concerns the strengthening of the ELGA by further staffing with legal staff in order to address the volume of cases accepted by the institution and meet the needs. However, we must do more, Minister, on the issue of ELGA and put an end to the suffering of farmers, especially of Elias, in relation to the operation of the ELGA Patras branch. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector still has much to offer to the economic development of our country, especially in this difficult economic situation. With this bill, we take a first important step towards confronting the pathogens and mistaken logics of the past, focusing on the need to upgrade and modernise. We are convinced that the further development of the agricultural sector is going through the emphasis on quality and efficient crops, the diversification of our products, the cooperation and synergies, the protection of Greek products and the improvement of their position on the markets abroad. In this direction we will continue to work hard so that the rural economy can continue to offer the highest as a key lever for economic development and the social cohesion of our country's local societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u339	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Aylonite from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Madam President. I have followed several speakers here from the New Democracy side, but also at my TV home. Very livanist to the government! And I am thinking of the expression "The very Lord is bored and the priest!" What do I want to say with what I said and not joking, but seriously speaking? Today, a very serious bill is being passed, according to the views you have expressed, and you have said here in the House, Minister. And it's not a question of exchanging good and thanks, and I imagine you'll understand that neither will we say good for this bill. It is a matter that is related, Mr Voridis, with the responsibilities we all have towards the people. This people survived in the leap years of their history from agricultural production, from livestock farming, from fisheries. The rural world has saved us recently, now, in the era of pandemic. You in this bill and in your speech - if I am wrong, I apologise - did not say a thank you to the rural world - and we all come largely from the province of this country - a thank you to farmers and fishermen. Tell us specifically, if you have kindness, how you helped these people in the age of the coroner. Did you help healthy cooperatives? What did you do with their landmarks? Did you reduce them? Did you introduce to farmers the suspension of doses to the FBI? Did you grant an extension of the repayment of PPC's agricultural tariffs? Did you reduce VAT on farmland, fertilizers, medicines, animal feed, as it did - to my mind - to the focus? What are you going to do with ELGA? Many of my colleagues have told you so. What's his role? Will it continue to exist for the benefit of farmers, or will we turn to the privatisation of the agricultural sector? Why don't you make a subsidized programme, you there at the Ministry, producer groups and cooperatives, so that they can get into new technologies and use them? For example, the words 'intelligent agriculture' are very much heard. What policies will you implement for the shameful gain? They take the potatoes from the field 18 minutes a kilo and sell them 0.90 minutes or 1 euro. I didn't hear anything. We're talking about a coronary season and we're going through it at this time even today. I want these questions from the beginning of my speech to put them because the pandemic on purpose has put the rural world on alert throughout the globe. Let us all think about the people who are listening to us - what would happen if, for example, there was no adequate milk, olive oil, fruit, rice, fish at present. What solutions does this bill give on these questions? What's the strategic planning? We're going to 11 months with a government in New Democracy. What do you propose to raise the rural world? I'll tell you in a moment about my country, Corfu. Olive oil and olive oil, which have already had low-price problems, are the final blow to the fall in exports. Animal husbandry pays a great price both for sheep and goats and for fish farming, for cow farming and for poultry farming, with the bans on mass focusing and tourism. Plant production is also hit across borders. Fruit and vegetables with dramatic restrictions on the people's markets do not find adequate access to the consumer. The crops are hanging by a thread. So look around the world, what trillions America will throw into the market. See Germany's policy and other European countries that take steps to support the primary production sector. What will Russia do with export measures? Will it be like it was first, before a bug? You also gave the answer that you would drop 150 million in the rural economy. All this, Minister, shows the irreversible reality that you have before you. Whether you're doing a beekeeping record is good. Is that the question today? There's that, too. Is that it? Is that what life shows you? SYRIZA submitted a series of final proposals. You despised it, reduced it, disappeared it from the media. It speaks of 300 million in the primary sector exactly costly. Do what you can to hide us. As we hid from the coronary, the government wants to hide us from the raw reality. In my personal opinion and my party's opinion, the country must develop a strategy in the primary production sector, taking into account all the data in the post-Korean era. Listen to SYRIZA's positions. It's not a bad thing. We're talking about the rural economy. Don't despise them by definition, a priori that we lawyers call. I see it's time. Minister, I'll close my place with Corfu. We had had to talk one more time about the corfiot olive grove which is actually devalued. 85% of Corfu, over 90% of the people of Rhodes and more of the inhabitants in the other islands live from tourism. The primary sector was abandoned not because of the monoculture of tourism, but because of the depreciation of the state and the state over time. What do you intend to do in Corfu, on this island, on the question of strengthening the Corfu olive oil that has fallen four and a half million olive trees? Have you imagined from an accident that can starve an island like a coronary? In 1960-1970 the vast majority of Ionian Islands had gone abroad, in Belgium and Germany. Why do we not aim to strengthen the primary sector? Minister, you are not helping the rural world with your bill. Everything about the sight is done. If you had to vote anyway in pandemic conditions on the basis of a bill corresponding to the situation, it's certainly not what you brought. It is very small in relation to what our state and our society owes us in the agricultural sector, farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Heads of State from New Democracy now have the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Frangidis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food today comes to show that, with proper organization, systematic work and defined objectives, the result can only be positive. And this result is reflected in the draft law we are debating today. This is a bill which introduces regulations concerning all areas of responsibility of the Ministry, a bill which will be a very useful instrument for rural development following its adoption, a bill that receives support from the primary sector actors. It is important that people in space view their provisions positively. They themselves will ultimately be the main beneficiaries of this legislative intervention. The Ministry is basically in line with the reality and the direct stakeholders in the country's primary sector. The Government and the Ministry are attempting to provide practical solutions to a number of complex issues, issues relating to the rural economy, fisheries and livestock farming. The aim is clear: to highlight this as the key pillars for the economic development of the countryside and as a follow-up, to increase the share of agricultural production in gross national product. With the agricultural cooperatives legislation we recently rebuild the institutional framework and regulated issues, aiming at the proper functioning of cooperatives. We tried it and we did it. Today we are continuing to move around in the same context and with the same reasoning in a global settlement of issues. We put order, we cover legislative gaps, we correct failures in previous regulations. With this draft law, we are directly and directly faced with the serious problem of Hellenism, at last. A significant section, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, is the penalties for PDO products. We stop unfair practices and heavy fines are laid down for the parallel criminal prosecution of offenders. How's that gonna happen? We amplify the scope of administrative fines in the food sector for infringements relating to the place of production, origin and processing. We thus implement the commitment and the fight against the phenomenon of mimicism and illegal Hellenism. Because we consider the protection of Greek products to be of the utmost importance and, by extension, of Greek producers and consumers. We are fighting the deliberate and unfair misconception of consumers of the origin of food and products. We also recommend the National Electronic Beekeeping Register and establish individual beekeeping identity. Our aim in this regulation is to establish a single system for recording, recording and identifying all beekeepers and beekeeping capital. We move from paper to digital. We are introducing the apiculture register and the monitoring of all the beekeepers in the country, and we have thus organised a number of issues that cause problems in the apiculture sector, problems that have so far been approached fragmentally. It is basically these steps. They may sound like data, but we seem to have had to go to 2020 to act. We are simplifying the procedure for assessing the new types of fertiliser from urban or industrial waste. We deal with issues relating to rural disasters due to grazing and the institutional framework concerning controls on veterinary medicinal products. We are clarifying and improving the legislation in force on matters relating to the transfer of the Ministry's works to the municipalities. We are clarifying issues in order to ensure the proper functioning of private cannabis cultivation units, in order to facilitate the work of the prosecution authorities in cases of divergence of legislation and to ensure the horizontal application of the institutional framework. We are strengthening seasonal employment in agricultural work. We continue to provide unemployment benefit for those employed in agricultural work. We are thus helping to carry out agricultural work uninterruptedly, incentivising more workers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another realistic bill. It collects provisions from many legislation, amend them and abolishes them in order to simplify, modernise and improve the procedures of the Ministry. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We are strengthening the liberalisation of the agricultural production process by practical malfunctions and administrative turbulence. We seek the overall reconstruction of the primary sector and its emergence as one of the main economic growth levers and the productive reconstruction of the country. We are blessed to have a quality primary sector as a country. We live in a place blessed from the end. Every corner of his has excellent products to present us. To stand in my area, Epirus, Ioannina. Can I talk about the goldbeet potatoes? In the quality honey produced in our places? In our dubious cheeses? I'm sure each and every one of us have to talk proudly about a product produced in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis is moving methodically, with the aim of resolving basic problems in society and the economy, away from micropolitical and party approaches, with a clear and clear picture of our reality, our potential and our goals. We are proving in practice that support for our country's primary sector is the foundationstone of economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u343	Thank you for your time. Mr. Francis from the Change Movement now has the floor. Come on, Mr. Francis. You've been left with time by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the primary sector for the Greek economy is decisive and, indeed, much greater than many European Union countries. It offers employment and income to a large part of the population and can make a decisive contribution to the country's economic recovery. However, it has to be said that what the state has so far made little sense in the primary sector. Minister, it's the second bill you bring to the House in the ten months that you're Minister. It was your second opportunity for an innovative and reformist legislation for the primary sector affected at this stage, as well as tourism, the other pillar of the Greek economy. However, you have to deal with issues relating to the Ministry's services and responsibilities. You have brought a piece of legislation of a non-visional nature that lacks vision and development philosophy, it fails in its entirety to provide solutions to the major problems of the primary sector and to the daily problems of the farmer, the farmer, the beekeeper and the fisherman. Our world is changing. We are shown by rapid climate change, pandemic, geopolitical reclassifications, the leaps of technology, the challenge of digital transformation. In this climate, the agro-food sector cannot stay encamped in an earlier era. The unprecedented influx of major European funds to support our economy is our chance. If not now, then, ladies and gentlemen? The Change Movement with proposals and any other parliamentary instrument has tried to activate you in support of rural world and primary production, for a realistic, national plan, for the primary sector as a whole, with developmental perspective and vision, with the attraction of the new generation, with innovations, the use of new technologies and education. After all, the agricultural world has not remained unaffected by the coronary pandemic. The lack of liquidity for farmers in combination with public debts, CECE and banks created an explosive mixture. The social cohesion of rural areas is under threat. It is therefore necessary to provide low-interest loans. To deal with red loans. Activate the farmer's card. To pay outstanding allowances for 2019. To pay Community aid quickly. Insurance contributions must be released from taxable income. To reduce taxation and production costs. Infrastructural projects are needed for the energy self-efficiency of agricultural holdings and for water, using the European Union's financial support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Exports, especially sensitive products, should also be supported and product prices protected. Really, how will you use, Minister, the EUR 446 million returned to Greece following a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the unfair retention of Community aid in pastures? Will you make it available to strengthen the rural economy? Will farmers be involved in the management plans for pastures? You should also see the issue of subsidies for organic livestock. The Greek region has been divided into nine territorial units based on vegetation density and the subsidy criterion which is the vegetation density per hectare. At the same time, however, Minister, farmers' costs for certification are calculated per animal. Thus farmers with the same number of animals are not supported as they are in different zones. This injustice should be restored. The same to the detriment of young farmers, who, due to the delay in the authorisation of stables by the forests unjustly, the administration of the Ministry - and mistakenly - asked for the aid they had received to be repaid. The article on veterinary regulations needs to be improved because, as it is now, it remains uncovered, Minister, the case of the placing of veterinary medicinal products on the Internet with all the risks that this entails. It should also be supplemented by a provision on the welfare of farm animals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the Greekisation of products, in addition to stricter penalties, it is important to have effective control mechanisms that identify offenders, as well as electronic invoicing of products. I would like to say to you that we in the Kilkis region, which are neighbours of the European Union, are witnessing every day the introduction of day-old cheese from cheese businesses in Greece, who then pour it into the Greek market as a feta cheese. Finally, you are right to staff the ELGA Legal Service, but you are late with the restructuring of the operating regulation, in order to include the damages from climate change and speed up the time for payment of compensation to beneficiaries. What is happening nowadays throughout Greece is the severe weather and damage to the primary sector. Finally, I would like to highlight a major problem we face in my prefecture in Kilkis County. It is the phenomenon of selling and renting large areas of land in companies for installation of photovoltaic parks and even so large. I will tell you that in addition to the thousands of acres before, recently two companies, one with fifty thousand acres and the other with twenty thousand acres, bought land in the Kilkis Prefecture and as a result we have a dramatic decline in farmland and, at the same time, an increase in the rental price for parcels, to the extent that farmers, who want to cultivate, do not find land for rent. In fact, everyone who rents their farms for tens of years also retains the rights of the IACC, which are deprived of by others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u346	Therefore, Minister, we must find a solution to such issues in order to strengthen agriculture and stop the reduction of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u347	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, over the six minutes, as I have been informed by my Vice-President, we are in the seven minutes with tolerance. So we're continuing with Mr. Bartzokas Anastasio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, the health crisis we are experiencing has been taught in many respects. It did not only wake us up to the issues raised by the National Health System and the initiatives that we must take directly to strengthen public health, but it has been awakening us particularly with regard to our country's current productive model, proving first of all that the crises involve the element of predictability. Secondly, in many cases the factors to which the crisis arises can be external and not internal. The example of pandemic confirms it. Finally and regardless of the above, the recovery time depends on how well we are prepared for it. This health crisis shows that it is crucial to proceed with a series of reforms that will enable us to strengthen the contribution of productive sectors to Greek GDP, because they will make our economy stronger and stronger. In this direction, of course, the primary sector, which is a key competitive advantage in our country, is the primary sector. This Legislation of the Ministry of Rural Development first acknowledges that the primary sector is the main lever of development, trying to resolve a number of issues of the past, which are prejudicial to its potential. In particular, Members of Parliament who come from the very agricultural law, like myself, are well aware of the issues which concern the agricultural sector and those who are involved in it. So it is a great surprise that the officers of Officerial Response degrade their importance, calling it a lost opportunity or a sliding of service suggestions. By these wordings, I wonder: Is it really minor to regulate Article 9, which clarifys who are beekeepers in Greece and which is a constant request from the Association of Beekeepers since 2011? The introduction for the first time in apiculture of individual identities, so that we are able to know who is a beekeeper and can be supported, when necessary, cannot be said to be of vacant importance. Also, how can we underestimate the issue of Hellenism? For the first time, the New Democracy comes in and settles this time-consuming issue, by establishing a criminal character and by tightening the administrative fines for Greekism, by organising and unifying short-term provisions, giving the clear signal that unfair competition, shameful speculation and enrichment at the expense of the consistent producer and consumer misled is coming to an end. However, the opposition insists that such interventions should be regarded as simply a process. However, these are issues which, in any case, are not offered for ideological conflicts and conflicts. Such legislative initiatives that solve practical problems and operate for the benefit of the producer, the consumer and, ultimately, our agricultural economy should be a field of convergence. This is the attitude of a responsible opposition and is vital to the quality of democracy. In fact, the Opposition also expressed the view that many of the issues covered by this draft law had no reason to be regulated by law. They could, in other words, be regulated at ministerial or regulatory level, thus degrading the debate before the committee and Parliament. I would like here to focus in particular on the amendment which is incorporated into the body of the text and which provides for the right of seasonal employment in agricultural work by Greek unemployed citizens. Those dealing with the earth know very well that crops do not understand health crises or other kinds of crises. The earth’s work has their own times and requires hands. Any delay is equivalent to loss of production and income. With the policies of the past, unfortunately, we have managed to prevent the domestic production potential from turning towards agriculture. Unfortunately, we have succeeded in failing to take advantage of the productive potential of the primary sector. But we did something else. We've become slaves to the transfer of work. One will object that this is happening in other countries, such as Germany. But it is enough to consider the German economic model with a contribution to GDP, mainly from industrial production, to understand that in the neighbouring country it is a matter of political choice and priority. Since the beginning of my parliamentary term I have raised the urgent question of simplifying the current revoking regime, which does not only make it easier for the Greek farmer to find agricultural hands, but is also burdening him with additional bureaucracy. If we add the insurance changes brought about by the former SYRIZA government by abolishing the single market, we understand why the issue of foreign land workers has evolved into a major problem. It's good that the bachelor returns for the current season. It is also a confession of failure to regulate the previous government. Recently, with fellow Members, we raised the question of land workers with the political leadership, making the issue on the basis of motivating Greek unemployed people to take advantage of it. We were pleased to see the right to work in agricultural work for beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit. If we want to talk about real reform, it is work and not unemployment that should be subsidised. Just before I close, I want to make four reports. Minister, farmers during the pandemic had a great loss of income. We are obliged - I know you will, like the State Secretary, do so, all the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development - to support them. I am also reintroducing a subject to which we have repeatedly mentioned: the amendment of the regulation. Four and a half years from the SYRIZA government, nothing happened at all in this part. Climate change has brought many disasters, which are not included in the regulation. Also, our farmers are not usually paid fairly and are not paid immediately. The same is happening now under the responsibility of SYRIZA, which for four and a half years has not done anything to amend the regulation. So our farmers have 35% of the compensation since last year. Closed up, let me have a hint. The real problems and their solution are not offered for slogans "we will be accounted for later". The agricultural problem requires wider consensus and is being asked for it here and now. Let us vote in favour of this legislative initiative and make the Greek people account later when the time comes. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Mr George Born of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, with a broad interpretation of the purpose of today's debate, to bring it to the daily lives of the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman, the fisherman, all those listening through a sweeping propaganda every day to share money from the television, most of the time not to see it, again the other morning to share money, and the same procedure, which I imagine the Minister himself would call it, if not schizophrenic, at least torture. So let's go. As to the damage caused by farmers in Easter. So far, I haven't had a penny. You don't have a penny! We connect her to the milk and the other one to something else. I hope we don't end up linking her to the overrun. Let's go to the fishermen. This is the responsibility of the Minister. But what I am about to say now is not the responsibility of the Minister. We're looking for the firefight, to see who took the eight, because the Ministry of Finance made various conditions, various cutters, various scissors, and finally, as I told you, the issue is not who took it, but who took it. I hope that the Minister will do something about this, because I do not need to analyse what the impact on the industry is and the need not always start, as is the case with the current government, from the strong and the excesses of the others. Let's go to farms, an extrovert sector with 80% of production being exports. I do not know which other sector one inventor of the Coupling, who, as a sector, can contribute 80% of its total production to exports. Well, we had a drop of imports. We've had a drop in consumption. It's obvious. The damage is obvious. In addition, overconcentration of fish populations within the cages presents problems and health and other kinds of problems. I imagine the Ministry will do something about it. Exports fell, consumption decreased. Production will become? Shall we go for storage? It's not easy. It's not inexpensive. He needs a process. There is a need for philatelicity, destiny, transport costs. If we do not now recruit a programme which is more extraordinary, as the government itself and the Head of the Staff State, from the coronary, do not exist - what else can we expect? I am going to another issue of livestock businesses, and this is not the sole responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture, but the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, who already has responsibility for everything. So we have in Haitolocarnania, Minister, a company that produced hundred and fifty chickens in 1994. Now production has reached a hundred thousand chickens a week with two hundred twelve workers. And I mention that because it is a public address to the government, it is not something that I simply have. A business with 25 million cigarettes in 2019. He's got a bank loan of 1,200,000. However, while it did not have an unpaid obligation on the funds and so on, it has a duty to the suppliers, who now require cash to sell. It has a debt of seven and a half million, of which a debt of two million is served and regulated. Well, the bank refuses lending for the reason that 2016-2017 presented a deficit. The company substantiates that it had already made an investment of four million euros and plans to invest 20 million euros by 2023 to produce chickens contractually without antibiotics... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need some time. Minister, in these circumstances, if the loan is not granted to her by 25% of the turnover, what will happen to this company? Zombie? And will the province, the region, if not Greece, become a 'zombie land'? Money is given to those who need it, not those who have it. Because this phenomenon has also emerged, that someone should go to borrow and ask for cash collateral. They heard this in Haitolocarnania and they say "What is this here?" Banks did it to them: To get a 100,000 euros loan, you have to present a Cash 20,000. At 150,000, 30 000, in addition to the other guarantees. In other words, we are talking, not just with strict banking criteria, but with vague criteria. And a little towards the end, Mr Minister, you could extend the LEADER programmes beyond the projects that have been submitted and which have been properly defined. There's a way to be enlarged, say, as I would say, remorseful. We fought it when SYRIZA was government in various other cases concerning primary production and had achieved considerable results. And finally, the Government of New Democracy on cannabis cultivation said SYRIZA chooses - says - to promote hashish in Greek society. Now that the New Democracy Government has chosen to continue - and rightly so does - I imagine that it does not do so to promote hashism in the Greek society, in order to produce some euphoria or at least to believe that every day they share money, it does so because it said several elections in order to destabilise SYRIZA, my ultrapatriots in the Prespecies's Agreement, and I have been trusted in other cases where there have been ground for what has arrived at your point, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u351	You've reached nine minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u352	...to ban Mrs. Keramea as well and still the roof of the House in place doesn't fall. So I imagine, Minister, that we should have a sober debate, apart from propaganda, the toxic for hashish, etc. Let's have a sober conversation. You present what you have to do and say honestly to the Greek people that "these are what we can for these reasons" and we can argue with what better and more effective can be done from primary production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Syriza has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the Ministry of Rural Development bill, I would like to state from this step forward my solidarity with those who are gathered in condemning African-American murder in the United States, at these concentrations that are taking place these days and awakening us, and to state my solidarity with all victims of racist violence, the weak, the victims of war, the victims of violence and intolerance. For the bill now. We are talking today about a bill which is a bill signed as strategic planning. I would not call it strategic planning for rural development, Minister, and fellow Members. It is a bill of arrangements and arrangements, some of which are good and agree, others are bad and we disagree. Colleagues have been present throughout the debate that has taken place so far, but we are also discussing a bill at a time when we are in the first steps to get out of this pandemic and hope that this pandemic, although difficult, will not come back to the experts. I would therefore say that all my fellow Members understand and say that this pandemic and this crisis must be an opportunity for a new productive model, a new production model to overcome the cultivation of tourism for our country, in which the primary sector will have a decisive weight. We say that this necessity does not only come from the opportunity of the pandemic, but is a prerequisite for a new model of productive reconstruction and development that will not repeat a distorted type of development that has reached the country in the 2009-2010 crisis and in the follow-up memorandum. Let us see how the government really understands this, just as long as we see how it dealt with farmers, farmers, fishermen. After very great pressure from both farmers, farmers and fishermen - as well as from opposition - part of the support measures has been taken, but without everyone being covered. For example, we have had a very long delay in the integration of all cooperatives and cooperative farmers, and even support for fishermen until now has been directed per fishing vessel and not per fisherman, not recognizing co-ownership. We have heard that there will be an amendment. It was published. We have not yet seen this amendment on co-ownership. If he comes, he'll come. We're asking for her to come. Also, of all the measures which have been announced in “seeing and doing” phases, the rural world is still the poor relative. And to return to the need for a new production model, I think we all have to agree that this necessity stems from the need for universal recognition now that the health crisis is completely intertwined with the climate crisis. Let's realize it before it's too late. The need for a new production model, the need for a new nutritional model are a condition of survival for humanity and not just individual corrections to relaunch the economy. I shall therefore return to support for the primary sector and link it to overhauling tourism monoculture, saying that I come from the Cyclades, especially in the tourist area, I would like to say that the primary sector has been gradually, slowly, but firmly in organic relation to tourism. The consumption of domestic products annually from millions of visitors to island Greece, the purchase and transport of numerous processed local products, based on honey, milk, vine, meat, fish, etc., has affected the tourist product and the formation of a new dietary habit. From this point of view, the emerging major tourism crisis for at least 2020, product and insufficient and unsatisfactory government policy, will obviously also affect domestic agricultural, livestock and fisheries production. At this time the major problems of this production, island and Cycladic have emerged. The farmers saw during Easter holidays the demand of the lambs collapsed and thus their income collapsed. Speaking of which, for the farmers, I'd say about the Greeks, since they're in the bill. That's not enough of sanctions. Control mechanisms are required that you have failed. We need control not only at the meat shop, but from the fold, at the slaughterhouse and at the end of the retail trade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take one, a half and a half, just like everyone else. The winegrowers and winemakers saw local consumption shrinking in many islands by 70%. Beekeepers, of course, are pleased to see the establishment of the apiculture register, but an overall policy must address the critical problems of the beekeepers of our islands, first of all at the high cost of producing and feeding bee with inappropriate foods, the problems of standardisation and the organisation of the disposal of the product. We had various conferences, teleconferencing, and we spoke with institutions, with ordinary citizens, etc. I will tell you the ten points - for measures which are directly required for the rural world. First, payment suspensions at least for the whole 2020. Farm electricity, fuel, extension of transport equivalent. Secondly, demanding direct financial support for producers and coastal fishermen, such as the activation of the European Union's Crisis and Solidarity Funds and the relaunching of the programme of EUR 15 000 for small farms. Thirdly, the granting of de minimis aid in the field of agricultural production and their break-up in a person's distribution. Fourthly, aid to those employed in the primary sector and the creation of cooperative schemes, producer groups and other networks. Fifthly, a reduction in VAT on agricultural supplies. Sixthly, the milk subsidy should be based on the number of animals and not on the litre.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Colleague, you've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u356	I'll close, Mr. President, Seventh, raise the price of aid for distillation. Support further the network of Aegean winemaking and the promotion of unique wine products of our islands. Ninth, the education of producers in the cyclical economy and the emphasis on processing. The Commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in beef and veal is based on the principle of the free movement of goods within the Community and on the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, I close by saying that the 150 million you give, Minister, do not cover the Greek producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u358	Our forward "We stay standing" programme with the 300 million is trying to support agricultural, livestock and fisheries production before it is late. Wake up, because in September we do not know what we will find in front of us if we do not have these forward programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u359	Thank you. Mr Vasiliadis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a draft law aimed at resolving individual issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It regulates matters which have been forgotten or neglected for years, but which have had an impact on the professional activity of farmers, on the table of consumers and therefore on the Greek economy. My first point is that the draft law shows the holistic approach of the government and the leadership of the Ministry towards the primary sector of the economy, away from the logic of 'the Ministry of Farmers'. This draft law is part of the government's strategy for full restructuring of the primary sector, as New Democracy had committed itself in the election process. Some important steps have already been taken, such as a reduction in farmers' taxation and a special scheme for insurance contributions or interventions in the operation of agricultural cooperatives. We are now coming to vote on a series of regulations concerning agricultural crops, livestock farming, fisheries, veterinary and other matters. Allow me, Mr President, to make just a few comments on some of them. First of all, I should like to dwell on the question of Hellenism. This is a forgotten matter from the state, but with serious consequences for producers and risks to consumers. Finally, criminal sanctions are provided for, but also for a top-up review of administrative sanctions for Greekisations, distortions, misleading labelling of products. The introduction of stricter sanctions is in the right direction. I also hold the timetable set by the Minister in his position yesterday for the reorganisation and modernisation of the control mechanisms in this year. Modernization is also the great wager of the Ministry, as well as of the government as a whole. In this regard, the present draft law provides for provisions of a modernistic nature, such as the establishment of the National Electronic Apiculture Register and the establishment of an individual apiculture identity, the single ‘ARTEMIS’ database for undertakings producing and marketing lambs or the arrangements concerning the Agricultural Accounting Network. We slowly put the primary sector in the 21st century, even with twenty years' delay. Of course, I cannot help but mention the amendment on strengthening seasonal employment in agricultural work. The status of the invitation of third-country workers for seasonal employment was already problematic. We have repeatedly raised this issue by several Members of Parliament from a region. These problems were even more marked this year because of the health crisis and the closure of borders. Here too, let us say that the Government and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food responded to the negotiation and implementation of the process of revoking workers from third countries. After the last arrangements for the insurance of these people by slumbers, only applications in Pella have exceeded five thousand. However, the primary sector cannot be based on the invitation of land workers from abroad and, in fact, on a single country. The payroll is rising and affecting the cost of production, while an important capital is leaving abroad. That is why it is important to motivate unemployed people here in Greece to work on the earth. It is therefore right that unemployment benefit should not be lost for a few days. However, we need a permanent framework beyond the pandemic emergency, which will give incentives and make use of financial instruments for training these people and specialisation in specific crops. On this occasion, I welcome, Minister, the joint decision with the Minister of Labour to exclude pensioners from the reduction in pensions in relation to agricultural work. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the issue of aid and crop insurance. I know very well that the Ministry's leadership wants, like us, the full reorganisation of ELGA. I would therefore ask you to speed up the procedures. It is necessary to update the Agency’s regulation and adapt to the new risks due to climate change. In Pella, this year we had ice disasters in March and April with damage to cherry and peaches. But ELGA invokes pre-anthic stage. It does not take into account April when there was blooming. There's a risk that he won't compensate. There is absolutely no need to take care of this. Today we are talking in Macedonia and Thrace of June. We must - and we are committed to this - create a modern insurance mechanism with fair compensation on time, use new technologies to minimize the time of assessment in issuing the findings and ultimately in paying. We have to finish the defective payment introduced by SYRIZA. Especially for this year, the Agency must proceed directly to the payment of the remaining 35%. Because of the pandemic, we can see aid to the farms affected, such as asparagus, but also to livestock farming, to the farmers of the people's markets and where a coronary disorder arises elsewhere. The sooner we address the issues that this draft law solves and the sooner we optimise aid and insurance procedures, the sooner we will be able to focus on the real, important issues of the primary sector, the development of new technologies, the increase in production, the opening up of new markets. It is particularly good that, at least in principle, we agree several political forces that the primary sector is the pillar of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u361	Colleague, thank you for the time. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA. I hope we're in time to be able to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in its title contains the concept of arrangements for upgrading and modernising the agricultural sector. His content, however, disproves the title. It does not include important areas and interventions in the problems of the country's primary sector. It avoids touching on the crucial issues that concern farmers, farmers and our fishermen. The provisions are fragmentary and unreserved. Of course, this bill follows the current policy of the Government and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which is characterised by purposes and inertia. With the health crisis and restrictive measures, our producers could not place their products on the people's markets. They couldn't make it available to the catering shops either. Nevertheless, there are no emphatically absent from your design substantial support measures for our producers. You have given me little so far, and in our proposal we are seeking the effective and effective support of farmers, farmers and fishermen. Unfortunately, however, you are not discussing this proposal at all. I think we have the same cause. And there should be a public debate on whether our measures and your own measures are sufficient. We should put them in the public consultation to see what people are supporting. Of course, your negative attitude to the primary sector has not now started with the health crisis. There was before. You directly increased the cost of the agricultural current in July and imposed a raisin on our fishermen. At the same time, many of your Members have referred to the privatisation of the ELGA that you are bringing to it shortly. The ELGA Regulation needs to be updated and modernised to meet the current requirements, new data, damages and damages caused by climate change. It needs to be updated and improved in the context already launched by the SYRIZA government. However, privatisation in no way responds to the problems of producers. It'll raise prices. It'll reduce the cover. This will happen because it goes without saying that the individual seeks profit rather than universal and mutual protection of producers, which the ELGA is currently seeking. Further, despite your opposing election announcements and post-election reports, production costs have not been reduced. On the contrary, it has increased in the eleven months of your administration. At the same time, product prices - as is the characteristic case with olive oil - have fallen. Minister, you saw the price of excellent olive oil falling vertically and instead of taking initiatives and actions such as Spain, you claimed that you could do nothing because it is a matter of free market. Of course, after some time, another minister recently said that we have capitalism, and that is why we cannot help the workers, the small and medium-sized ones and those who are apart from any support in the face of the health crisis. I now come to my special homeland Elias, where producers have felt very painfully these political choices of your selective inertia. The major problems posed by your general policy at my place, such as increasing production costs, falling prices, lack of substantial support because of the health and economic crisis, have added the reduced prices of olive oil, but also the recent losses made by the heater in mid-May. There were very significant damages to the fruiting of olive trees. There was a fruitfall in the citrus fruits because of the heat. The damages mentioned amount to 80% of production in some regions. It is therefore necessary, Minister, to grant exceptional compensation to producers because of extreme weather conditions. Exceptional events require emergency solutions and actions. Potato producers are also facing major problems. Other colleagues have referred to this. There are complaints about the fall of the price. Many producers are forced to sell below costs and this drop in price is linked to the everincreasing imports of potato from Egypt and the Greekizations. In addition, the raisin producers also have major issues. It is necessary to proceed with the restructuring of the crop to replace the aged and unpredictable press, to plant new, durable and adapted to the new environmental conditions. An important issue, too, is the fact that producers are still waiting for the remarkable distribution of the coastal areas of the dried lakes in Elias. It should be done in a fair and proper way to implement Law 4061/2012 as amended by the SYRIZA Government in order to benefit real farmers and farmers. All these issues require cross-sections, require brave measures and concrete actions. Unfortunately, however, you have not shown so far that you wish to take such initiatives. The draft is the continuation of your colourless, odourless and counterproductive policy in the primary sector. There is no talk of outstanding claims from the ELGA. There is no reference to climate change that already has a very much influence on the primary sector. You are trying to highlight Articles 27, 28 and 29 of the bill. They are the articles relating to sanctions and you emphasise the strictness of penalties. It should be recalled here that the tightening of fines and penalties for milk infringements have been introduced by Joint Ministerial Decision 838 since 21 March 2019 with the previous government. In order to be of value, however, the strictest penalties should be found for the offenders. But how will this be done when you do not rely on the control mechanisms? It is well known that the biggest problem in the control process is lack of staff, lack of resources and fragmentation of audit services. We note, however, that the coordination centre for market surveillance and management, which coordinates the process of dealing with illegal trade, remains unfounded. At the same time, you are not taking care of the substantial increase in staff and control instruments. You know that there will be absolutely no point in having a strict framework of sanctions when no one does checks to identify the offenders. It is therefore another communication tick to increase fines, as you do not improve the control mechanisms. Article 9 provides for an electronic apiculture register which is in the right direction. We recognize it. However, there is nothing for the industry's most important problem, the protection of honey from unfair commercial practices. In conclusion, Mr President, the bill to be voted on fails to listen to the widespread concern of producers. There is a development perspective. It does not address the major problems of the primary sector. Farmers, farmers and our fishermen demand and expect substantial support. Unfortunately, you did not do anything in that direction. Our producers do not tolerate the indifference and procrastination you display on the burning issues that concern them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u363	Thank you. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation first introduces many organisational arrangements concerning structures and institutions of the Ministry of Rural Development itself. However, it also has a number of provisions of great interest to producer groups. Such articles can distinguish between Articles 27, 28 and 29 on combating consumer misleading of food origin. The imposition of strict administrative and criminal penalties, particularly in cases of fraud and incorrect labelling of the country of origin, as well as the misuse of PDO, biological and other protected products, is very important because it does not only protect the consumer but mainly helps to continue to work as a consistent producer. It concerns an important part of the Greek primary sector that works daily on the production of special and often unique agri-food products, which the Greek state must protect. Especially for the problem of Greekizations, as is seen in meat and milk, we expect much from the implementation of this draft law and in very short time. In my constituency, Magnesia, we are lucky to have a strong agricultural, livestock and fisheries sector with products that enjoy international recognition. And on the occasion that I have been given today by the Step of the House, I would like to mention the requests made by the producers of Pelion who are already known to the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. In particular, it is the advance that ELGA must make earlier, if possible. At least 30% to 40% could be given at the beginning of the autumn, because this year's production after the quarries we recently had in Pelion will fall almost completely from the 200 million tonnes to three million tonnes. Also, a very lively demand made by producers is the increase in ELGA compensation when the compensation relates to products with a protected designation of origin, because in Pelion, unfortunately, the lot is small and is not able to produce large producers. And finally, we must also consider climate change, which is now afflicting agricultural production every year, and the state must move on to anti-hailing protection measures. With regard to Article 19 on the recovery of State aid from agricultural cooperatives, as the producers themselves know, the implementation of the decisions of the European Union by our country is, unfortunately, compulsory. However, this provision gives a maximum period of 20 years for the completion of the recoveries so that the cooperatives responsible are not excessively burdened. And I am sure, Mr Minister, that the joint decision you are about to take will regulate every detail of these recoverys in the most practical way, especially those who are already financially burdened. Minister, I would like to close with Article 30 on strengthening seasonal employment in agricultural work. Not only in Thessaly but also throughout the country's entire rural world, the problem of the availability of labour hands is particularly acute at this time. It is therefore particularly good to facilitate occasional work in the OAED’s unemployed’s registers, so that they can carry out agricultural work without affecting the payment of unemployment subsidy to all these beneficiaries. Obviously, this regulation is an important incentive, both to boost primary production and to increase employment. It is an opportunity to respond to shortages of land workers without resorting to massive shifts of human resources from third countries. I shall conclude, Minister, on the basis of the provisions of the ELGA. Support for ELGA scientific staff is necessary and will be very useful in particular in relation to the improvement of the regulatory framework governing compensation. I would just like to emphasise the requests made by the producers of Pelion who demand products such as apples to be revised in respect of compensation under the ELGA regulations. The aim is to keep pace with the new conditions that are being shaped and the needs of the Greek producer, especially high quality products. A request is both flexibility and proportionality in compensation, and I am therefore confident that, in cooperation with the President of ELGA, Mr Lykourenzo, who is carefully considering all the proposals for the new regulation, your ministry will soon come to the best possible outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u365	Thank you for your time. Mrs Gara Anastasia has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, in parallel with the debate on this bill, entitled 'Strengthening and modernising the agricultural sector', we are currently discussing in the committees the draft law of the Ministry of Education, with the imaginable title for the upgrading of the school. Interesting, if anything, the coincidence of multiple upgrades in all areas of social and political life in which the New Democracy Government is trying to convince us that it is moving forward in legislation. But is that really so? Does this bill today respond to the enormous challenges, the daily problems faced by the country's rural world, after the current health crisis and economic consequences? Because we all know that we do not legislate in the vacant. Unfortunately, the answer is negative because the New Democracy Government still considers farmers, farmers and fishermen invisible. It treats the primary sector of our country as non-existent, and should instead be one of the major industries in our country that needs special support. It cannot be explained otherwise how farmers, farmers, producers and producers are firmly out of place, even of the minimal support measures announced by Mr Mitsotakis in the past few days, so that today the primary sector has been left to the mercy of the scorning economic crisis, but also of the upcoming food crisis that they are talking about and we must take our measures early. For example, winegrowers and small winemakers are people who have not been able to make their production because of their non-functional focus, and their only income comes from there. These people for the New Democracy government were invisible. They were unable and were not even predicted to enter the EUR 800 that you gave for several months to other workers or professionals. No financial support was foreseen at all. Even after the privatization of commitments and limits on state expenditure, because of the pandemic, we have seen no intention of the government to strengthen liquidity in the rural area. Primary production is outside the priorities of the New Democracy and we have seen this in practice. At the same time, however, we do not see brave initiatives for restructuring and real modernisation of primary production, for which we have all agreed in here. With this data and the possibility of a second pandemic round in the autumn, as the scientists say, one would expect the Government of New Democracy today and the Ministry responsible to act immediately, by means of a concrete plan, in order to address the difficulties and difficulties faced by the rural world and the world of production. For the time being, however, we are still seeing a lack of strategy, a lack of planning. Unfortunately, today's bill, in addition to its hopeful title, which speaks of upgrading, is characterized by fragmentation. It does not prevent, intervene or provide for substantial measures to prevent farmers from being left unprotected, or, of course, for any long-term plan for modernising the agricultural sector, unless you have done so and have not informed us. We would have expected this with great interest, so that we could also contribute to our proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that for two days there has been a thorough discussion and analysis of the articles of the bill, which are mainly of a technical nature, and I would describe most of them as particularly positive and necessary. After all, most of the services have been scheduled for some time, even from the previous government. But every improvement is positive and we welcome it, and we are voting in favour of it. Here I would like to mention a few issues relating to the daily lives of farmers and they also need to be resolved. A few days ago, then, I asked you, Minister, a question concerning the extension of measure 11 of the Rural Development Programme and on organic farming. In 2017, the organic farming programme had been launched. It had effect for three years, with the provision of another two years of extension. With your signature, it can very easily be given the extension of the two years and not be left pending about nine and a half thousand bio-farmers in the country, bio-farmers who have turned to a different crop and have spent a lot of money on starting this crop. We cannot leave them to mercy without giving them the extension of the two years, which they themselves are asking for. Moreover, great problems are faced by the growers of aromatic plants of Thrace, mainly lavender and oregano. They have addressed you too. They have suffered a huge financial disaster because of the pandemic, as it was impossible in these circumstances to export the products they process and produce. Because these people were going to enter the fields at this time to produce new production, I too would point out from this Step that the producers of aromatic plants in Thrace, but also throughout Greece, need immediate financial support and support from the state, and it is indeed an area that is not subsidised by the state budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. Also, livestock farming is a branch affected at the pandemic. We all know that. With this draft law you are strictening sanctions for Greekisations and you are doing well. However, this will have no effectiveness, as you at the same time weaken the control mechanisms and the biggest problem is identified there. You distribute that illegal people will be severely punished, but at the same time close the eye to illegality, dismantling every control system, fragmenting and inactivating audit services. Mr President-in-Office, unfortunately this time in the Greek region, massive livestock holdings are being transferred. Many farmers are forced to sell their herds, as the lack of demand and low meat prices in the Easter period led them to an economic dead end. Many farmers have unfortunately failed to cover even their basic costs, even the feed for winter. When do you expect to strengthen these people? SYRIZA, acknowledging the problems that have arisen, has tabled concrete proposals to support the primary sector, in the context of the "Meaning upright". I do not expect you to adopt, Mr Ministers. But I urge you to study them and use them as much as possible. For farmers there are measures of 300 million. They are direct interventions for the benefit of producers and rural enterprises. It is proposed to reduce the contributions of ELGA for the current growing period by 20%, a specific absorption programme of products produced in support of state structures, a specific plan for the absorption of viticulture production, support for farmers for loss of income due to low animal sales prices, direct activation of the microfinance measure to obtain liquidity producers, direct activation of the programme for fruit and milk in schools, special aid for olive cultivation and much more. Ministers, the life and economy of the region as well as of Evros are mainly based on agricultural, livestock and fisheries production. That is why it is necessary to bend over the real problems of the people of primary production before you promise to upgrade and modernise the agricultural sector, because in order to modernise and upgrade the agricultural sector, primary production must first exist. So let's see that primary production continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u367	Thank you. The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: a. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and the illegal importation, export, movement or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin’; ‘Preparation of the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia for cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’. Mr Baraliacos Xenophon has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, this bill of the Ministry of Rural Development is moving towards the same consistent and stable line of resolution, correction and clarification of a number of issues in the primary sector of our country. It is a racist bill, which includes provisions covering a wide range of agricultural activities from agriculture and livestock to fisheries and apiculture. The Government of New Democracy and the Minister himself have been commanded from the very beginning as a direct and supreme priority to the Greek farmer, the Greek breeder, the Greek producer. It is characteristic that after many years - I find it difficult to remember since when - our farmers did not take the tractors out of the streets this year, they did not cut the country out in two, obviously because they appreciated the honest intentions of the ministry and recognized in practice the careful work that is being done in all areas. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth pointing out that the Ministry of Rural Development has, in the midst of an early pandemic, undertaken a very rapid legislative work and initiatives in order to continue the productive activity and the growth potential of Greek agriculture. The question of third-country workers who can be employed exclusively as land workers was solved directly on a legislative initiative. The obstacles due to closed borders and bans on travel from one country to another have been effectively overcome and so production has been rescued, products have not been left unnecessarily, and many more important agricultural work is now under way. There is a solution for the Greeks who want to work on agricultural work, while at the same time receiving unemployment benefits. The co-responsible ministers, taking note of the difficult economic situation, legislate that every Greek unemployed person who has the right to benefits may not be able to work in primary production, strengthening his income. We are doing labour subsidisation and not unemployment. Finally, days ago, it was decided by the Ministry of Labour in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development and the best solution for the insurance status of the land workers is applied. A chronic problem that agitates our producers has been solved by subjecting them to the insurance regime of the mine. For all these three initiatives, I would like to thank the Minister for all the farmers in Pierre, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, and their colleagues, who have listened to the problem and the unfavourable situation that we are experiencing, have given rapid and effective solutions, as well as I should like to congratulate and thank Mr Brutsi, the Minister for Labour, for resolving the chronic issue of the insurance of workers of the land. The Ministry's forward reforms equip our farmers with the necessary tools to change their level and make quality leaps. Especially at such a critical time for our country because of pandemic, with visible economic implications, the primary sector can play a leading role in the reconstruction and redesign of our productive model. I would like to stress, however, that the more centralised regulation of this bill - and we also made it a pre-election commitment - is the establishment of a clear and strict framework for combating illegal Greekism and the imitation of Greek products, in particular those of a protected name and origin. The previous discrepancy arrangement leading to impunity and perpetuation of this distortion is reformed. Mild administrative sanctions are changing in character, and criminalisation of the offence is now being legislated with a strict penalty framework. For example, with the former regime, the administrative fine started with only EUR 500, and now it comes from EUR 30,000 to EUR 300,000, while it can reach EUR 600,000, as well as five years of imprisonment. Illegal Greekism has been an open and deep wound to Greek stockfarming and agriculture for many years, as the Minister said yesterday in his position, all concerned, by the producer who sees his income falling, the commercial chain that is damaged by unfair competition to the final consumer who is misled and, in the end, does not know what comes into the household and what product he pays. Before I close my position, I would like to refer to some of the untrue facts that were said yesterday by Mr Famello during his position - and I am glad that he is here today and listens to us - regarding the PDO of Pierre, of Makrigialos. Mr Famele, the relocations have neither stopped nor there is a question of biotoxins in products, in the mussels, as you mentioned and I would ask you to be more careful than the Step of the House for these reports. Makriyalo's mussels, Mr. Famele, are of excellent quality, continue to be produced. There is also no question of what producers will do with their exports. I speak with the producers every day, and this morning I spoke with several of them. The only problem - for information, Mr Famele - is that because of the coronary in these two months they could not export to Italy, as you said. It is 80% an exportable product the Makriyalo mussels and people are waiting to open the border to continue their exports properly. These to restore the truth, not to say from the Step of the House, things that do not apply and damage Greek products that are cultivated especially in Pieria. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has given a reformist breath to the primary sector. The patriotism of the Greek for our blessed land and vision for an extrovert and dynamic agricultural policy will be a catalyst to this new reality and will transform the unfavourable conditions of pandemic into an opportunity. The Greek producer has all the guarantees to take the lead in the new demands of the times, and we all do and continue to do our best to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u371	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. I think that my fellow Member should make it up to him to make it up to him, because he said in a way that he quite clearly suggested that I did not submit any real evidence to the House. Therefore, I must remind him of what I said yesterday in the House, which - fortunately - made you contact the muscular farmers today. We are interested in doing this, Minister, to raise issues in this House, so that you too can do your job, which you do not remember so often. So what I mentioned, Mr President, was - and it was quite true - that there is a question of concentrations of biotoxins - I did not say in the products, I said to the Thermaic Gulf - and therefore there is a ban on collection and that the ports, as should have been, have not been opened, when there are concentrations. And I said that in this period it is not right that there is a lack of the chief in the respective department and it is made up not by a deputy chief, but by the director, so there is no chief. And the relocation process has stopped, and there is a request for additional lines to be added, and now the arbitrary units must be closed to have nutrients and good products. And while there is at least six months - but more than four months - period of interruption of fishing in the eastern part...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u373	It's not true!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u374	Please. I know very well and it's not about your region. In any case, then, all these are real data. Therefore, my colleague's remark was false.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u377	Answer it, but let's close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Famele, first I'd like to see you in our area. I don't think you've visited Makriyalos' musculoskeletal cultures. I invite you to come and see them. And I don't want you to teach me, because with these people I talk every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u379	You have a minute, Mr. Comrade. We're not teaching each other today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u380	The fact that they're not gathered is not true. They keep up. They just don't have to make it available. They're saving it. Don't get confused. It's one another and the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u381	What area are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u382	For Makriyalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Comrade, talk to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u384	I'm not talking about Makriyalo. We're not talking about your region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u385	The issue raised by Mr Famello, which I have commented on, is about PDO Pierre, the Makriyalus, Mr Famel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u386	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u387	You mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u388	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u389	That's good then. Since it wasn't mentioned, we closed the matter. Because we don't remember what each of you has mentioned. It's closed. There was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u390	I'm covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u391	Mr Mauritius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who is in this Chamber and following the positions and concerns of all colleagues who have been tabled this weekend, could agree that the primary sector in our country is in the intensive sector and that we now need reinforcement and support rather than tomorrow. Of course, it takes a strategic plan for the next day, which unfortunately we see that the government after ten months cannot complete it and propose it. Minister, you have the luck of dealing with an important area. But you will also allow me to say the misfortune at the same time that this sector for the government is not considered important. I'm coming to the bill. You are bringing arrangements to step on illegal Greekizations by imposing stricter fines. I will not go into the fact that this may be about the implementation of a Community directive. But the problem - it has been tabled by other colleagues - is that it is not fines and fines, but it is the control mechanisms which, unfortunately, are not the result that we all want at the moment. And if we really want to protect our products, which are at the mercy of fair imports of dubious quality sold as Greek, you and all of us must move in this direction. Strengthen these mechanisms. I come to four examples of the production process to justify what I said at the outset. I come, Minister, to the olive growers. They're in a marginal state. You know that very well. They've been waiting for months, after the heavy damage they've suffered, some help, some backup. I am referring to Ioannina as an example of why it is the county with the largest production of edible olives at the moment. 70% of this production remains unstoppable in warehouses. The actions that are being or are not being done at the moment for the kale olive, unfortunately, are at EUR 0.70. This year's partial catastrophe from sharp weather changes will be added. The ELGA Regulation does not cover. I don't know if there's time for that adjustment. But let me say that SYRIZA had begun its process of organisational change by awarding a proportionate study, which was frozen. The Ministry and the government must provide an explanation of why they have frozen and why they have not moved forward, at a critical time when we need the ELGA officials to recruit. To give an answer to why in general right now, there's an ESA deception. At a time when the price of olive is below its level, the price on the premium is currently increasing by 58% to 60%. This is where the questions begin to come in. Is there a plan for private individuals to enter this whole story? I think you have received the messages, Minister. The farmers and producers will in no way be able to tolerate this. Our livestock farmers are in front of a great dead end. The Minister has rushed to inform them. I'm talking about the Minister of Development. He said this year we won't get hurt. Beyond the fall in the price of milk and all those who have suffered the last two - three years, this has also been added. So our livestock farmers were forced to sell their lambs within a few days in February to avoid complete destruction and finally the Greek farmers sold the lamb for free. The Greek consumer paid it very much. You have promised a full record of the situation and our farmers are still waiting. They hear unofficial promises of exceptional aid of twenty-three million euros. They're still waiting. Small farms are currently being sold out. That was also mentioned by my colleague before. People can't support their animals. They are being forced to sell their livelihood at the moment. I think you should immediately take an initiative. A great deal of pressure at this time is also accepted by the producers of fresh products. These people are fighting hard. It's been a difficult quarter, especially those who go to the people's markets. They have an uncertainty in front of them about the disposal of their products and because of the decline in tourism. I now come to your initiative on the national electronic apiculture register which is indeed positive. An attempt by the previous government is complete. Beekeepers in recent years, but also in the middle of quarantine, have been severely affected. Today, if we are to stand essentially next to this sensitive producer group, we must immediately subsidise organic beekeeping, subsidization, as is currently being subsidised to all the countries of the European Union. On the question of the Hellenisation of honey, which has been raised by too many colleagues, there are only two solutions. The first is to accept the method of geoscopic analysis already proposed by two universities today. The second solution is to promote the traceability of tariffs. Finally, the criteria for producer groups must be made more flexible, Minister. Let's go to the teams of five people and cross the border. Beekeepers, along with other producers, this year see that because of coronary and weather conditions they will have a great loss of income. That is why I propose to strengthen professional beekeepers with a subsidy per hive through the de minimis programme. Mr President, I shall conclude with the issue of cannabis. Minister, you are bringing another blow to cultivating cloning and industrial cannabis. I won't stay in obsessed with any of the audiences you want to cover. I'm asking two questions. Why are the standards of other European countries not being followed? Why are you destroying the investment potential of a productive country by creating a problem for small producers? They just got into the cannabis. I'm closing up with the big water management thing. Italo-Carnania, ladies and gentlemen, is Europe's largest water tank, and at the moment thousands of acres are standing by our rivers and the lakes are not irrigated. I heard the anxiety and other colleagues from all over Greece. Minister, you have a challenge ahead of you to set up a major strategic, investment project, which will respond to the biggest problem of farmers today. Because the subject is going to go "Where's the money?" We can use the money from the new CAP as well as the 446 million which as a country is being returned to us after the relevant European Court of Justice ruling on pastures. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that what has been highlighted this weekend is that we need to go to measures immediately before the primary sector is destroyed and, of course, to use the tools, creating a plan for the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u393	Thank you. Mr. Constantine Blucos of New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Arachovitis will be followed. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good luck has brought us in the past few months in a position to study the last two draft legislations submitted by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the quarterly draft law on agricultural cooperatives, and this 'eranistic' bill, as described, in response to some people who spoke a few months ago about Vorides' fanaticism. Care, concern, affection for our primary production is the definition of consciousness on the concept of the economy. In the years of the economic crisis, and now also in the weeks of the health crisis, the mood of economic numerology has swept away, which often blurred the horizon. In the blurred horizon each one of us feels drowning and thus opening a splendid glorious field for the demagogue and opportunism, the populist and the political deceit to put the color of his own selfishness in the blur. We have to know, ladies and gentlemen, that on the other hand, there is an unseen world that is surrounded by our own failures, with inherent weaknesses in participation and adaptability. That is why we consider that, in the future, advisory services will be the most important tool for the recovery of the countryside and of Greek livestock and agriculture. The Ministry's leadership demonstrates management adequacy and flexibility and has a clear targeting and loving orientation. I would like to express my personal delight and joy when, as a recognition of these legal lines, I tried to think and imagine beyond the narrow legal wordings. The importance of small pitfalls in the essence of the course shows that big leaps are taking place. Our challenge is to insist on the imprinting of reality, to insist on the simple things that will prevent fragmentary legitimisation and push rationalisation and that will work as a multiplier in any reform effort. Finally, the package and the housekeeping many times and this alone demonstrates the seriousness of the policy and defines the framework. So far, the state in many, but mostly in its agricultural policy, has not been serious, it has been understood over time. I will avoid the challenge of listing examples that I know about the time economy, but also why so many colleagues today have printed them out. I'll only say one. I have been talking to representatives of a very worthy dairy industry in eastern Macedonia about their product prices. I am referring in particular to the question of the protection of the environment and This company has a particularly high product quality and is always next to the stockfarmer in eastern Macedonia, whose sole supports. Today stockfarming faces serious problems of productivity, competitiveness and profitability. The Hellenisations of huge quantities of cheap imported Balkan and sometimes Turkish milk were and are the problem of the people of that company, the signs of the Greekizations many, complaints in half-billion. I was stressed that it is tragic to strive for quality assurance of a product with a protected designation of origin and that this product is made with imported materials. I am talking about a healthy and honest industry that cannot compete with the prices of milk and the feta of certain chains. It is necessarily aimed at a particular audience, with a weapon only its excellent quality, and no one can denounce anything that has been practically punished so far. As I spoke about livestock farming, in short on the issue of sustainable productive reconstruction in the agricultural sector, the preparation of management plans with the conditions and conditions required will be and we expect it to be the foundation of increased production in the sector and sustainable development. The current situation with the comicotragic grazing plans exposes us. That's well known. The artificial solutions I mean. In view of the fact that we have the necessary flexibility and cannot allow the country to be exposed any more, there are, Minister, useful opportunities. For example, the Forestry TEI in Drama has drawn up a reliable and model grazing plan in the drawers in the previous years. So is the effort made by the Democritus University. We could take advantage of all these efforts that can be made to put an end to them. You're the one to put an end to this. So let us make use of them all. In this regard, our main problem in the critical areas is the fragmentation of the legalisation and the inability to materialise the actual data, see National Apiculture Register. That is why any attempt in this direction that reflects reality will also be the basis for rationalisation and, of course, for any future reform management. The lack of genuine reliable databases creates the legalisation of inherent distortions and unfair exclusions, despite our good intentions. Such misunderstandings, evils, crimes so far are not punished. In the worst case, a wrongdoer would give a fine - ‘empire’, which is more than twice as many of his illegal profits. How can we want to set Greece's economic life on a healthy and creative basis, when we indirectly forgive and overlook such crimes? The agricultural policy at our place to date has been an exemplary elevation of the definition of our national decline, to bury quality and merit, to work and to fight creativity for the sake of euphoria. In fact, the depository of this decline is to deal with what we condemn to death in the name of a quality that we condemn. Ladies and gentlemen, to the farmers and our farmers we only owe respect. Let us finally stop their tooling. Respect means no hypocrisy and populism, no left demagogy. The definition of left demagogy is a stable and stubborn defence of speculative organized interests. It impresses or rather embarrasses some of us to use in your rhetoric terms such as "realization", "modernization", "development", "strategic design", because they are foreign and empty meaning in your ideological vocabulary. Respect means imprinting the hard reality, our failures, the new environment as it shapes and a substantial effort to find the necessary and capable conditions to ensure the sustainability of a useful pillar for the country in the demanding future. Let us legislate in this direction rather than constantly ostracising or even ignoring our reality, what is so far our achilles heel, because any legislation that up to now does not, rather than cure injustices, is more likely to promote them. This bill is such a step in the right direction. They won't be long enough to show his results. If we do not offend Greece in its lasting improvement, that is to say it is excellence, we will not cut off our national misery and misery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Arahovitis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u396	In the light of the end of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development, we must point out that the draft law does have positive provisions, as we have said from the outset in committee, and that is why we are voting 'yes'. However, many of the provisions of the bill could be resolved either by simple ministerial decisions or, as we pointed out, they also have problematic points. However, what certainly does not have the bill - and it has become a common estate of both Members in plenary and in society - is that it has nothing spectacular to offer the Greek economy and society these hours. Starting I would like to say that we are living at a time when the country's neighbours are moving on to provocative actions. These provocative actions the government has to deal with them wisely, but it must also give an answer. Reply dynamic, based on multi-dimensional foreign policy, a response showing that the country is present in developments and that it has words and voice and alliances. But since we are talking about answers, I would also like to give a response documentary evidence of what happened with the price of sheep and goat milk and the Greekisations. According to the data from EUROSTAT, with a reference value of 100% in 2015 there was a decrease in Europe at the price of sheep and goat milk, which was 94% for 2016 - and I am talking about the average - 92% for 2017, 91% for 2018. Similarly, the country had a lower decline than the European average. We were above the average European level. But weird is different. The strange thing is that while stabilization and gradual recovery on the European average started in 2019, in Greece we had a stagnation. In other words, while we should also take a step up, as the downward trend was interrupted, we did not have the corresponding rise that the rest of Europe had. That's the reality. The reality is that, in order to achieve a recovery of the downward trend and to keep above Europe's average, concrete measures were taken and these measures were also the control of Greekism, but also the support of ovine and caprine farmers when needed. I'll put it in the Minutes, because it's useful to read the evidence. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The evidence always gives us useful conclusions. A second point I would like to make is that of the thirty-two famous projects that were included in the Rural Development Programme. Starting, when we received, we found some files with project proposals. In order to mature and arrive at the Ministry's Measure 4.3, it really needed a race to enable the services - which I thank for their cooperation - to mature these proposals and to get to their signature. I'm going to tell you a feature regarding my country, Kelefina dam. The barrier of Kelefina, a region in Laconia, was announced in 1953. Since 1953, there has been still an idea, something faint. But with the help of the services - I repeat - the project has matured and joined and signed the thirty-two projects of the Rural Development Programme. So, as we are talking about money from the Rural Development Programme, what needs to be done now, Minister, is to pay attention to the fact that at the moment the future of the new common agricultural policy is being shaped, we have a very large reduction in the budget. We have 15 billion - pay attention to the numbers - an emergency coronary grant because of the coronary pandemic. On the other hand, we have a very large reduction in the CAP, which is in no way compensated for by the exceptional measures. And in any case where the money will be missing from the new programming period, it is precisely from the part of agriculture's development. Here too are the new requirements from the Green Agreement, which put additional obstacles, additional requirements, if you like, with less budgets. Imagine the position of our farmers in the new programming period, to have more to do with less budget! Here we need the strong position of the country and the Ministry of Rural Development in claiming. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And we are going to the last part to which I should like to refer, the need for support from producers ahead. Why do we say that? Because livestock farming has been proven - and I think it has been mentioned by almost all the colleagues, both the Vice-President and the Co-Population, still needs support. Because during the holiday season with the measures, the restrictions on events in the celebration of the Easter of Catholics and Orthodoxs, but also in particular with the misguided statements of Ministers of your Government, losses were huge and I think that it is not too much to prove it and to understand it. They still haven't seen any support two months later. It's impeccable now to support, because the consequences are experiencing them. As is also the case for the viticulture. With the restrictions on focusing and with the apparent drop in tourism, therefore consumption, plus restrictions on transport, and the viticulture has suffered a great deal of damage. To leave a quantity of wine at a price - take care - satisfying red and expensive wines is a matter of the sustainability of winemakers and winemakers. Why in the end who's gonna pay her? The viticulture. When there are no warehouses available and a satisfactory price will be paid by the winegrowers themselves at the end. The last one, the producer is the one to pay for it. The only thing that went well these days was fruit. Just because of the pandemic, due to increased demand of vitamin C, it was the fruit that went well. No other field! So don't make it sound like you need support and reinforcement any further. So, because we are listening to society, we are listening to its needs, we are listening to their producers and their concerns, their need for support and survival and the need for the continuation of primary production we have presented a programme. We presented the programme "We're staying upright". In that we have tabled proposals. You can also adopt some proposals from this. We invite you to adopt whatever you think, but at least we invite you to do something in these days that primary production needs support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u397	Mr Himaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, dear friend, ladies and gentlemen, the recent and unprecedented experience of our country and the whole world has shown more than ever the need to strengthen the primary sector, a sector that has the potential to lead our country to a well-intentioned recovery, but also to ensure self-sufficiency for its citizens. It is no coincidence that Greek products are refreshed on the shelves abroad. We are lucky to have natural wealth and fertile land, but we are not staying on this. We will move one step further, correcting imperfections and putting order in total. The draft law we are discussing today is exactly what it is, it deals with the primary sector. It aims at liberalising the production process from malfunctions and administrative claws. It introduces innovative regulations and implements years of requests from farmers. Because we all agree in this Chamber that there is an urgent need to increase the share of agricultural production in the Gross National Product. Innovative arrangements such as the Beekeeping Registry provided for in Article 9 of the Bill, consistent requests from beekeepers, the Agricultural Accounting Information Network referred to in Article 1 and the single ‘ARTEMIS’ database referred to in Article 10, dealing with traceability issues and issues of unfair practice, the Government responds to the challenges of modern times. I personally believe that one of the most important interventions is to impose strict sanctions on acts of imitation and illegal Greekisation of agricultural products, as provided for in Articles 27 to 30 of the bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, food fraud seriously affects farmers' incomes and undermines food safety. On this issue we must show the necessary consensus. They don't have any reasonable controversy here. We must protect our producers, we must protect the price of genuine Greek products. And if I ask the question, what we have done for so many years to protect our PDO products, how many discussions, arrangements, and finally, we conclude that something is not working. What we have not done enough is criminalise the fraud of PDO products, and that is what we are correcting today by Article 29 of the bill. For the first time, we are legislating to make the information available to those who carry out such acts public, as is explicitly provided for in Article 28. For the first time, we are legislating to withdraw their licence in the same article. For the first time, we impose strict administrative fines of up to EUR 600,000. Minister, I am delighted to see the Ministerial Amendment which maintains the unemployment benefit for workers in seasonal agricultural work, as well as the one that gives third country workers the opportunity to be insured with a caretaker. These are matters which I have been concerned with and personally asked together with other colleagues in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a step further. Yes, we finally put a brake on the scourge of Hellenism. Yes, we are adequately protecting Greek products and our producers. Yes, we're remodeling the ELGA operating framework. But you know very well that the needs of our farmers do not stop there. Minister, we are really at a historical juncture that requires rapid and correct decisions. The reduction in production costs is necessarily through the construction of modern infrastructure, lakes, reservoirs, small dams, closed irrigation networks. As an example, I can take into account the range of different production costs identified in different areas of my prefecture. Another cost to the plain of one bank of the Sperhoe River, another one on the other side of the bank. The majority of crops are irrigated by energetic and environmentally harmful drilling. And let me paraphrase 'they exist' with 'water exists'. And, unfortunately, this water falls into the sea. And I don't do that by chance, because fortunately or sadly there is money. As you know, in order for a project to be included in the Rural Development Programme it should have a mature study and, of course, an integrated licensing. The truth is that in the last four and a half years - Mr Arachovitis said - no work was auctioned. After four and a half years, thirty - two projects were joined. And I, you know, wonder how long it takes to mature a project, when you have four and a half years the opportunity to mature a project and lead to a competition. In most cases, for us to be honest, for many reasons, they do not mature studies, they do not prepare for the implementation of projects that will benefit future generations. Let us tell this in this Chamber that a number of our self-government representatives are involved in the next elections. That is why I am saying, Minister, that you must not wait for self-government, because I think it does not have the means at the same time when our farmers can no longer stand. Mr Minister, there are three words: the development of projects. We are at the closure of the current programming period and the preparation of the next. I know that the European Commission has responded well at the end of the year in correspondence with our country's request to finance studies from the current NSRP, with funds from the current NSRP, that is, to finance studies to integrate their projects into the rural development programme of the next programming period. It is time to initiate this process of a project mechanism so that studies can be drawn up and matured accordingly. Only in this way will we achieve the right and immediate use of European funds. Only in this way will the rural world also be able to make use of the forward funding of the new Rural Development Programme for the period 2021-2027, but, of course, of the additional resources that Kyriakos Mitsotakis has managed to provide to deal with the consequences of the pandemic in our country. Money is available for infrastructure projects in the primary sector and there will be much more. But the area in which our Government is to be assessed is that of the proper use of European funds. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many speeches. Before we speak in beautiful terms, we politicians on smart field, the implementation of innovative methods of telecommunications and information technology, precision agriculture, have done our basic duty towards the rural world. Only then will politics recover its credibility in the eyes and, above all, in the heart of the Greek farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, too. I now call on the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukkoro, who - I see - will speak from his position. So it doesn't require the sanitization of the step. It'll be for the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u400	To make things easier, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am not in any mood, ladies and gentlemen, to oppose CSR. After all, the verdict of the Greek people is recent. But it gives me a deep impression that "We live up" programmes are being developed when the Greek people put you down. Why has the price of sheep and goat milk not been abolished in the past four years? Why has no programme been drawn up when three and a half thousand farm animals were closed in just four years? Why has no programme been drawn up "We live up" when you put the disgraceful tax on wine, causing shocks in an excellence, especially in recent decades, to an extremist industry such as that of winemaking? And you also make political failures to send the honourable Prime Minister to his first meeting with the primary sector to visit the small winemakers in Spata. What did he tell them about the wine tax? Every year you promised to abolish it, so you could come a few months before the elections to abolish it without finishing the process. Because the procedure was only completed on 20 May by the Deputy Minister of Finance of the present Government. I therefore do not question your right to stand up. It is a good line that you keep for the bill that there are rules that are correct and you have some reservations. But by drawing up government programs, having lost power a few months ago and having done "museum" things literally in the primary sector, you are hardly convinced. For the bill you came to us and told us that it was a fierce, stitching, suggestions of services and that all of this could be done by ministerial decisions, circulars, joint ministerial decisions. I would say to you orally, as Mr Apostleo had done for the customs producers and even pays them. And if it wasn't for Borides, they'd still be looking for their money. Are ministerial decisions, circulars by a piece of legislation, and indeed, what piece of legislation? A piece of legislation we are talking about is a major issue that has been employing the country for decades. What's that? The question of the Hellenisations that we have always discussed, we have all come up with a direct effect on the country's production base, but no one has legislated. Vorides came to legislate, tighten up the framework, make criminal provisions and increase administrative fines, multiply them, make this shameful process distorting competition, impairs the income of the Greek producer fighting environmental conditions and tries to get a producer price and an income. What's this procedure doing? It opposes the national identity of our products, hits the country's productive figure that is so special. What did you do about them? Are you coming today to tell the Minister for Rural Development why he's doing a law? To show the determination of the state that these phenomena will fall. But you say there can be no strict penalties without any control mechanisms. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has consistently analysed you and showed you that it is within a timeframe. We said that in the first half of 2020 we will bring the issue of Hellenism and in the second half we will bring the strengthening of the control mechanisms. They have been announced by the head of the Ministry of Development. And the legislative framework to facilitate the simplification of authorisations will be mediated, for which you have also done nothing for four and a half years, absolutely nothing. You inherited us. In 2020 you left the authorisations of livestock units. I could, of course, go on reminding myself of a few things, not to mention forest maps. For 50% you committed two million farmed land. This government came and solved the issue. In other words, if you had published all the maps, you would have literally committed four million cultivated land and a hundred hundred thousand farmers' objections, ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of the environment, but it has a direct impact on the country's rural world. So what have you done on this matter? I would therefore say that criticism is good and needs it. We've been yelling for so many years that there are no hands on the rural land. Greek producers are being blackmailed by foreign workers, who are definitely exploited by their lack of exploitation, as they would have done in a free market system. And the government comes, today, to say that the unemployed can work, work in the field, without losing the rights of the unemployed, without losing the unemployment benefit. Why didn't the'multi-left' previous government do this and Voridis does it? What for? So what prevented you from standing up? You're asking for oil enhancement. You're right. And I know that the Ministry of Rural Development is working hard to find the mechanisms. The de minimis requires new mechanisms from the beginning. Why didn't you give de minimis the price of sheep and goat milk, Mr. former Minister for Rural Development, when you saw her collapse?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u401	And we gave...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u402	We are also asking for the aid of the oil producers, because there is indeed a problem, not just from this year. You gave 42 million when the price reduction loss, for four years, was explained by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development this morning, was 400 million, i.e. you covered 10% of them. You're talking about ovine and caprine farmers, what will they get this year? Have you not heard anything that you will receive about EUR 25 million of aid, that the mechanism is being set up from the outset? You did not hear that the Greek bloomers were the first farmers in Europe to receive aid. Why does the entire Ministry's mechanism have to work to justify to the European Union why are we giving de minimis? Didn't you hear anything about fishermen? Yes, indeed, there was a problem with co-ownerships. Not everyone took the eight. Didn't you hear that thirteen thousand Greek fishermen will receive 15 million, for the first time in the last decades? Didn't you hear that the man who didn't get the eight and has a boat up to six metres will get from 1,200 to 1,300 euros and the fisher who owns a vessel from six to twelve meters will get much more money? I guess you're living in another country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u403	What we know is that most of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u404	All right, gentlemen, you have served the Ministry of Rural Development and are talking about your work. Words have no meaning. Words have absolutely no meaning! I would like to close, Minister, because in fact every good observer finds that you have drawn up a short-term strategy with the legislation you have told us, with the aid you give to the sectors. I would like to ask you these 400 million refunds, to rectify the injustice done to farmers by the 2013-2014 balancing budget, of course, will turn this money back, such as the budget, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if the recovery issue does not go ahead. Because if this issue does not go ahead, which has been reached by a very good agreement in twenty years' time, the fine will be multiple and you ask who will pay? But who will pay for the recovery of 400 million that will revival the 2 billion-dollar fine that will be imposed? Aren't the Greek producer, the Greek taxpayer, going to pay for it? Go out and say that. Minister, in closing I would like to invite you to continue your legislative work and your initiatives, because the last pandemic has actually shown that the primary sector in our country can and must play a leading role. To tackle the problem of ageing in the rural population by motivating young people. To deal with the problem of water adequacy, because water exists, but it wants a management overall. Localizations cannot impair the irrigation possibilities of Greek producers. I would also like to say to you, because I know that it is in your plans at last, let us make use of the state land for which we do not even have topographics and are many million acres. So all this combined with the completion of the value chain. Our aim must be: no Greek bulk product. To complete this value chain. Connect production to our tourism. We give a brand of Greek tourism to the hotels to feed our visitors with imported products. We need to find the mechanism. Everyone can make hotels, but not everyone can trade the national product called tourism, take this magic mark of EOT, without having a trace of Greek products to feed visitors. But we could say a lot more, I'm sure you've got the Development Ministry's engines working and producing results. And I am therefore sure that despite the difficulties created, such as the pandemic, it will work and take the primary sector forward, this true protagonist of the Greek economy, justifying the possibilities it has and which so far remain untapped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u405	The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor, Mr Kedicoglou. Are you coming to Stepma? It's ready. Here, Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. This bill "vetalia" of the Ministry of Rural Development comes to give solutions to years of problems in our agricultural sector, but at the same time it proves to be extremely topical. And that is because - as has been said several times in plenary - one of the most important lessons in the health crisis, which can and must be seen as an opportunity, is that we need to revise, we need to revise, the structure of our economy. It has been shown that our economy is one-dimensional, that it depends too much on tourism, that our production base is not sufficient. Indicatively, most people have now found that Greece is not even food independent. Greece, a country where its land and sea can produce almost everything! In the necessary restructuring of our economy, it must be crucial for the development of the agri-food sector and for our economy to be more balanced, and for us to expand our production base, but also because in this area we have great comparative advantages, which we have not exploited sufficiently. In order to achieve this we need to solve years of sector problems, we need to change our approach, we need to give the Greeks the means to enjoy the wealth of their land. This bill takes important steps. And I was pleased to hear the Minister say that other legislative initiatives will shortly be followed, because we certainly still have a lot to do. I, too, agree that the bill's top anticipation is the fight against the scourge of Hellenism. I literally use the word "small" because the Greeks affect the most important comparative advantage of our agricultural products. It is true that our products will never be produced in huge numbers to flood the world market, nor will it ever be the cheapest in international competition. Quantity and price are not among the advantages of our products. But they are the most quality in many categories. Our weapon is the quality of our products, it's the name they've made. Greek agricultural products, oil, cheese, milk, honey, wine, meat, fruits, are synonyms of quality and that is exactly what the name of quality comes to be affected by Hellenism. The Greek products are not quality and they spoil the name of the Greeks while cheating on the consumers. Moreover, because it is cheaper, due to low quality, it compresses the income of Greek producers, leading many to extinction. It's too much evil. It is paradoxical, of course, that, just now, in 2020, this bill tackles the Greek product mix, with consequences that are most serious to the perpetrators, both criminal and financial, with the rapid imposition of sanctions, which reaches the withdrawal of the authorisation. For the first time, the Greek identity of agricultural products is strictly shielded. With penalties of five years of imprisonment and 600,000 euros fine, I am sure the prospective perpetrators of Hellenism will review their plans. With this draft law, the strategic reconstruction of the agricultural sector begins, and in this spirit I think it is very important to regulate the National Accounting Network. Our aim must be to be the farmer - a businessman of every scale, small and medium-sized, not only large. We have to give the Greek farmer the supplies to respond. These supplies are mainly information of an economic and geotechnical nature, so that the farmer can then make the right business decisions. This network will be a very useful instrument from an economic point of view. From a geotechnic point of view, Minister, we should see how the farmer can be closer to a farmer, how the farmer will be easier to reach. Because today geotechnical support is not sufficient. I am sure you are aware of this and are planning the appropriate steps, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, because it also has an important role in the matter. Besides, you give a very good example of cooperation with local government, grade 1 and grade 2, with regulation on land improvements, as well as on the issue of the management plans for grazing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Sadly, time is not enough to discuss all the regulations in detail. After all, our rapporteur has done so sufficiently. But I would like to make a special reference to the National Beekeeping Registry. Honey is a valuable asset of our agricultural production and it is no coincidence that in recent years many young people have turned to beekeeping. The Greek honey is famous and with a wide variety of flavors thanks to the biodiversity of our flora. It is very important to establish a single system for recording, recording and identifying all beekeepers. Also important are controls on animal production, and in particular checks on the statement of balances of consumption. In both cases we have additional effective barriers to unfair practices and Hellenism. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the strengthening of the system of agricultural work. The first step towards foreigners is an effective solution and it is right that pensioners can work. Even more important, however, is your decision, Minister, not to deny unemployment benefits to beneficiaries who choose to work in rural areas. Beyond the economic breath you give them, it is also an opportunity to become familiar with the agricultural sector. Many may finally choose to become farmers if appropriate incentives are given. We therefore expect, Minister, and the next steps in terms of exploiting public land by young farmers. Let us not forget the issue of the size of the agricultural lot. The average size needs to be increased. For example, incentives should be given for combinations, as well as for the geotechnical support of farmers and farmers. And by the way, I would like to congratulate the geotechnics of your Ministry, who, under the guidance of the political leadership, also contributed to the drafting of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that with a strong agricultural sector Greece is stronger! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u407	I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. Those of the rural world who attended the two-day debate heard SYRIZA say that it solved all the problems in the agricultural sector in the four and a half years that were government. That's what they heard. You heard from the government that a few were left, that they too solved the bill, the great bill that came. Listen, gentlemen. Problems have accumulated. They are not treated with de minimis bills. They are not treated with bills containing useful regulations, but which can be done by regulation, whether they are ministerial decisions or even circulars. A bill and a plan for the agricultural sector, which responds to the accumulated problems, whether from the crisis or from the SYRIZA's isotopic policy, does not exist. We expect to listen every day, when a plan will finally come integrating a proposal on how we want the new CAP, a proposal on the Green Agreement, a national plan that will take advantage of the great potential of the agri-food sector in our country. The agricultural sector is moving at an acquired speed from the past. Not only do they all remember, but they are also moving because of the dynamics that had been developed by PASOK's agricultural policy. Keep this in mind. However, this acquired speed is decreasing because new problems are emerging, new stumblings arise and solutions are awaited that are not given. In physics there's a meaning, that of entropy. He should explain to us someday because I don't need time now, Mr. Buras. Unfortunately, entropy is growing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Kegeroglu means I'm a physicist myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u410	You have chosen, Minister, intelligently - I have told you before - the easy path of confrontation with the levelling-up caused by SYRIZA. This is an easy job to fight against, to continue to oppose SYRIZA's end. Easy work, especially for you who are an excellent manager of speech and a knowledgeer of this reality. But is that what this is all about? Or should we be confronted with problems and give solutions? The political world is mixed with the problems, particularly the government. We, as a Change Movement, did not expect important things from you. I told you yesterday. We did not expect either immediately to provide solutions that are viable in the problems that exist and need this directity, but neither to take medium-term or strategic measures. It does not contain your paradigm DNA to develop a strategy for the agricultural sector. That's understandable. But neither the management problems, Minister? Compensation? They deprived the oil that the gentlemen went to Nadir. They humiliated it from the Apostle’s time until recently with the homicide. This year's price for winter was the result of this depreciating course. You have also promised a dossier to the European Union. Well, how many months does he want to set up a file? Are you underestimating the country's scientific potential, which started the file from the previous government, and has not been formed yet? We are congratulating the scientific potential, but we are not making use of it. I don't know what's going on. In the meantime, other problems arise. Already, we have issues of damages to the viticulture, new problems. And, of course, we need to see specific things. Don't go on with SYRIZA. Do you know why? Yesterday, as other colleagues, or yesterday, said, Mr Tsipras - and you will have to pay further compensation, Mr Vorides, to wine, and I will explain to you immediately why - the small winemakers, to tell them that they will be supported and even chopped at the wines that were first boiled! The first boil was there. They were chopping. And the bolting of wines has led to a second boiling, which you understand is destroying the wine. You're going to compensate for the wine. It was Mr. Tsipras who destroyed his winery with the tax he paid. One night, he says, he thought about the tax, drinking whiskey, a minister. That's what people say. He introduced the tax on wine and put him in, the rest of the people voted for it from wine-producing regions, and now he says he's gone to support. But that is not the point. Everything else is left. The tax on wine may have been abolished, the overtaxation of the farmer as a whole and the explosive combination of taxes and levies has remained. Problems are left. Something needs to be done, Minister, and it can't be done. So we say: for food safety, for the agri-food sector, for food certification, which is a key element in their competitiveness, in order to have a passport for foreign markets, have you done something? High fines for the Greekisms say nothing. I told you yesterday that I am reminded of the high fines of the COK which led to the increase in infringements and - supposedly - of the receipts and of the accidents. Are you strengthening the FET mechanism? Have you done something? You visited him. You were told the troubles. Have you done anything to strengthen the FET? Neither did you previous ones. Did you really allow the EFSI to be able to do its great work? Oh, no. He does this to a significant extent. And we've seen results in the past few days, they've caught rotten meats and more. But that's a small percentage of the work he can do. Open up the wings of the FIFG so that it can further guarantee food safety, move safe food, and, of course, get into the logic that we have opened many years ago, the comprehensive management of crops for safe food, for food that can really be marketed fearlessly. A farmer's safety for ELGA. I explained yesterday that the first stage of the reform of the '10s relieved the organization, then the organization stumbled. Of course, 132 million said a surplus, 50 said the Minister of Finance. He says, "But they went to the Bank of Greece." He may see them, but he can't touch them. Look, that's not state money to be entitled to it. Illegal and unconstitutional. In my view, with the PPP, she took the contributions of the farmers and took them to the Bank of Greece. The State is entitled and is obliged to give the ELGA 20% of the contributions if there is a need to meet operational needs. This has not happened until now. It's covered by the contributions. So he had no right to take that money. I come to the subject of 'LEADER'. I explained yesterday. The 107 million you announced is a reduction. Approximately three thousand projects have been submitted. Why is it a reduction? Of the 170 million left 107 with the funds of the regions and what we are telling you is that 150 million in total are needed to implement all the projects that have been approved. Projects have been approved productively. Is it possible that you, in election terms, said that you are supporting productivity, entrepreneurship? The two thousand thirty - fifty - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - two - one - one - one - two - one - one - one - one, one, one, one, one, and the other, will be 150 million projects. Make sure. That will be a great deal of work. There are well-prepared plans. There's no need for bureaucracy, there's no need for anything. One decision of your own is that there should be such funding. On the subject of changing the definition of pastures, 460 million, because you fought in here, and who is not, Mr. Karasmanis said some things. L.4315/2014 brought things to the right basis in relation to the definition of pasture. Thus, the management plans of the pasture, etc., became vindicated the policy we had since 2009-2010 in relation to the towers, in relation to pork, in relation to woody, and this brought back the 460 million. Regulation 1307 was the first amendment and Regulation No.4315. Koukoulopoulos. Mrs. Tyloridou is from up there, from this county. Didn't he know Mr. Koukoulopoulos introduced this law? I am closing down with a reference to the three amendments. Minister, I have tabled an amendment, but I have seen that the insect of the bill has been shared, so we are talking for free at this time, only politically speaking. Only political value is our position, it has no parliamentary value in the sense that it has closed the question of improving the bill. So it's just to explain our views. I tabled an amendment that I had tabled before to another draft law concerning the obligation of the State to pay - otherwise it is obliged to pay expropriated land. They have therefore expropriated the areas for the airport in Kastelli Pediados, in the region of Russochoria, the wider area, refugees, legacy. They say: "Oh, you cannot be paid for the legs. They gave it to you for agricultural production, etc., you cannot be paid." They were given them for agricultural production, but they were taken to make them airport and cannot be paid. Understand? So I'm telling Mr. Voridis last time, he tells me it's Karamanlis, the environment, etc. I tell Mr Karamanlis on the Infrastructure, he tells me "people are entitled" etc. I ask a question here,'surely right'. "Dikos" and Hatzidakis, but "it's a matter of Vorides". I'm returning here now, she hasn't answered me yet. He'll study it - I guess - to tell us next time. Look, they don't play with these things. They bend, and, if that's fair, they go ahead with it. Why? What's gonna happen? What's happened already? People gather at the assemblies and say, "They're laughing at us. Where's the credibility of the state? They do not pay us compensation and the project is done." The money is there, which my colleague and Mr Vorides said on one occasion, Mr Karamanlis on the other and Mr Hatzidakis on the other do not sit on the amendment. The government normally has to deal with it. So I do. I work with lawyers. I find the solution, I testify, and they don't study it. That's apathy. And, of course, does New Democracy have two Members in Heraklion? I'll invite them to take a seat. Tuesday there is a meeting in Russochoria. It's the refugee. The club is dealing with the issue, the problem, and I'm going. I can't go and I can't tell them the truth that Mr. Mitsotakis is here, he started work. He accepted that there was a problem, that Mr Karamanlis promised that he would resolve it, he said that Mr Voridis was responsible, but that a solution is not given. That is the one amendment. The other concerns - you know it - the ELGA and the third concerns the forests. Consider them if solutions are given. And I close by saying a word about the 850 million single payment. It's farmers' money. Why don't you tell OPEKEPE to bring you a plan what happened in the previous period? Previously, not in the previous one, in PASOK, there's nothing then. With the help of the bank's cash, at least 50% of people's money can afford it in June. It's their money. Because it will pay two months interest by OPEKEPE or by the State? Really? Is this where we give other funds to relaunch the economy, and for the agricultural sector we will not make it easier for them to get back? And since I said OPEKEPE, the problem with the toast and the fine in the European Union...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u411	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u412	I'm hanging up with this, I remembered it now. We had then in the co-operation government, Mr Voridis, which was proposed by Dymari - a lady named Chaliki. Do you remember her? He was Vice President at the OPEKEPE. She did the job in the European Union and we ate the fines. Mrs. Chalikia. So Mrs. Kaliki, who was in DRMAR at that time, went after becoming a Special Secretary for the Management of Community Resources at the Ministry of Labour on SYRIZA. And at SYRIZA when she was, she still did something like that and Antonopoulus ripped her out. In other words, Mr Arachovitis, the problem was again created by a member of yours who was, of course, in another government, Mrs Chalikia. Mrs. Chalikia, do you know her? Do you know her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u413	It was your government. You have political responsibility, no matter what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u414	Well, let's get together here, and the government and the other parties, about the plan needed for the agricultural sector. If we say 'how do we get out of the crisis'? Everyone agrees and says 'agricultural production, agricultural sector, green economy', etc. Where are the plans, where are the actions, where are the proposals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u416	The Change Movement is here with proposals and criticism and control and with programming positions. I believe that this is the right place to help solve problems and finally to rediscover a prospect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u417	I'll call...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u419	You are a parliamentary representative. Take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u420	A word. Let the Parliamentary spokesman tell us how moral it is to target a man to take political responsibility above him. How moral is that? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u421	He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u422	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u423	You want to answer that? Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u424	My position is absolutely political.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u425	Please, ladies and gentlemen. We're closing down with the New Democracy MP, Mr. Styli. It is the last of the Members' lists at today's sitting. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u426	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the enormous importance of the agri-food sector for our country, you all know it. I would remind you, therefore, that according to a study published by the EFF and data from EUROSTAT and from work and papers carried out at universities, the employment multiplier in the primary sector is 4.7. In other words, every new farmer is still creating 4,7 jobs in the Greek economy. High, too, is the multiplier of agriculture in our country's GDP, which exceeds 5%. A percentage increase in agriculture therefore creates an increase in GDP of 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the following questions: has the state done its debt to Greek producers? Does it ensure the future of their industry? Protects them from unfair competition? Where were there omissions? How and why did the illegal behaviors come about, the violations? How, for example, did the Greeks come up? Was it an exclusive responsibility or an impoverishment of the state? How does our domestic production happen to be insufficient while there is great demand, but at the same time our producers are forced to sell at extremely low prices and many to leave the profession? In conclusion, will we continue to operate in the same way by repeating past mistakes and omissions, or will we proceed to a more organised Greek agri-food production, so that farmers and farmers can win, and at the same time the market can meet all its needs and consumers can enjoy quality products? Ladies and gentlemen, 35% of those involved in agriculture and livestock are over sixty-five years old and the new generation does not follow. The agri-foodstuffs sector faces great challenges. Climate change is making things even more difficult. We must all shake it down. Targeted legislative initiatives are needed to shield our producers, rebuilding the primary sector and processing, highlighting them as one of the main levers of the development of our national economy. This is where this draft law comes in, regulating a number of issues which are a brake on the production process. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur has made a detailed presentation of all the arrangements. That is why I shall refer only briefly to some of the main points. For the first time, it is the fight against the phenomenon of mimicism and illegal Hellenism. It introduces the criminal character of the violation of protected designation of origin products - the known PDOs. To date, the impact on the offender has been a low administrative fine of up to EUR 15 000. Now it is up to 300,000 euros and in some cases 600,000 euros and prison sentences are up to five years old. There is therefore a brake in the practices of illegal Hellenism that undermined Greek quality products. The National Electronic Beekeeping Register and the individual beekeeping identity are recommended to support the true beekeepers to organise and the excellent honey to find the place he deserves. There are bureaucratic issues going on and there is a move to draw up grazing plans. Mr Kahrimanis spoke in detail at the committee on these issues. A positive sign is the bill in terms of both GFCM and TWG. Water management under climate change conditions is a prerequisite for environmental protection and a prerequisite for the new CFP. The transfer of responsibilities to local government is a good step. We are waiting - and I say this to you, Mr Kahrimanis, for the second time - for another legislative initiative to resolve the issues of GFCM - TWG in relation to their debts. Mr Minister, I think you are moving in the right direction, if our regional director is properly informed. The unemployed are given the opportunity to engage in seasonal work without depriving them of the unemployment benefit. Includes undertakings for the production and marketing of eggs in the single ‘ARTEMIS’ database, with the aim of addressing unfair competition practices and misleading consumers. The application of plant health and plant protection products rules is enacted. It improves the legislative and regulatory framework for the operation of supervised bodies of the Ministry with a number of interventions such as ELGA, GEOTEE and others. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides concrete solutions to chronic problems. The bodies were particularly positive about this, especially on the issue of Hellenisation. In addition, it is the acceptance of the law by two parties of SYRIZA and KINAL's opposition, voting positively at the outset. Ask: Does the bill solve all the pathogens of the past? Unfortunately, no. It is right that penalties become very strict, but it is not enough in itself. Minister, there is a need for a series of arrangements which will clarify who or which bodies will inspect and then testify to the infringement. It is necessary to link the information systems of the services responsible for cross-checking. By attending the committee responsible, we have committed ourselves to a series of initiatives that you will then take in this direction. We look forward to your initiatives with particular interest and positive results. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has won the impressions with the management of the pandemic. One of the safest destinations is rightly considered to be one of the most secure destinations. It is important to capitalise our position by highlighting the value of the brand name "Greece", to further promote our excellent products. We have a national, patriot, to support and protect the primary sector and the processing. It is the most important pillar of rural economic development and contributes substantially to the growth of GDP, as I said before. I invite you to vote in favour of all the provisions of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u427	Thank you too, Mr Stylian, for his speech, which completed the list of Members of Parliament. Before today's meeting with the Minister's speech, some of the special speakers and rapporteurs have asked for a second word. We'll start with Mr Arseni. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you say the flag of this bill is the Greekizations. We asked you questions in particular: why have you made sanctions more vague about fraud? Why do you continue to license, open up a new business by the same man who had fallen into fraud and Hellenism? Why is there still a permit to import artificial honey into Greece, which is the material used for the delusion and Hellenism of honey? Why don't we have any tracking? Why can medicinal products move online and there is no ban and persecution for this? Why would they move illegally online? Because in the ELGA you put two lawyers without incompatibility. Why do you not demand a political solution to the more than a hundred cooperatives who are forced to pay more than a hundred million euros at the worst time for the Greek economy? Why are you reducing fines to half the damage to agricultural capital and animals, even when it has been deliberately and intentionally? Why stop seizing fishing licences to illegal fishermen? But because we have asked you more than six times and have not received answers, we will answer you why you are doing so. You do it because you want to do opportunity to keep hostage social groups without solving their problems, at the same time as making generous services permanent and at the expense of the public interest in foreign and Greek business interests. We're against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Villardos, special speaker from the Greek Solution for two minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with the amendment on which we tabled a question as early as 20 September 2019. Two months later we received an answer from the Minister for the Environment. The answer, of course, was not an answer to the question we raised but a dialogue with Mr Famello. In this dialogue, as far as the Ministry of Rural Development is concerned, he wrote: there is also the question of what is going to happen with the Ministry of Rural Development, with farmers and with the compensation of farmers, so that other measures can be taken to prevent fertilisers and pesticides from falling into the lake. Here, I would like the Minister to answer - if he can - what has happened on this issue, as it concerns him. As far as the amendment is concerned, we will vote 'Failures' simply because we are more generally against direct awards, as the government has recently done on many issues. Because it has now been assigned to the Ministry of the Environment, we really hope that Mr Hatzidakis will not sell the lake, as he is selling everything. In the bill - we have discussed it several times - we have pleasedly seen that it has now been understood that Greece needs a change in its production model. We've been calling this since the first day we entered the House. The primary sector, manufacturing and, of course, industry must be developed. We must stop the monoculture of tourism, which, unfortunately, we should have taken advantage of in order to promote the other sectors of our economy, and now it is in recession and we cannot do so. The primary sector is very important. Our agricultural production is minimal. It is under EUR 6 billion, while agricultural income may be about 12 billion, but that is, of course, the result of the subsidies we receive from the European Union. So we shouldn't confuse them at all. What we definitely need is a comprehensive bill from the Ministry, as far as the primary sector is concerned, because Greece's problem continues to be that it does not produce. And we are sure that as long as we do not produce we will sink, whatever happens, no matter how much money is spent on the Greek economy. Finally, we want to draw attention to the following issues: firstly, on the subject of water, which is very important. We will have great problems in the future and in the matter of supporting farmers for the seed market. If we do not support them at this time, we will have a great nutritional problem in Greece. I'll finish with the ELGA and the compensation. There are too many protests. We hear them from everywhere. The compensation is not paid. And I think the Minister should take care to ensure that compensation is actually granted to those who are entitled to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u431	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u432	We wondered - and we said this out loud - that this bill did not have many articles or very important articles to last for two days. Could be discussed one day from morning to night. In addition, most of the colleagues' speeches made two days to raise serious problems in their areas, including the government MPs, which means that they are pressing the problems, especially in hailing and livestock farming. Of course, Minister, you have avoided, as we speak, the topical questions. Parliamentarianism has many tools. So we thought the bill would be discussed in one day. But we were saying this without the hotel owner, as the people say. It is clear that the Hatzidakis amendment was designed to come. Besides, she's been practicing her for the past few days in the media about Lake Cornelia. It is an important matter for you and we say it clearly, there are problems. And the environmental destruction of Lake Coronea is great, with the water level being at sixty centimeters in the deepest, revealing thousands of dead fish in advanced rot. This has been said on several occasions and recently. And it is known that this lake is protected by international conditions, ‘RAMSAR’ and ‘NATURA 2000’. What's the matter with us? We are aware that you are bringing such a serious issue at the last moment, which should normally be called by institutions to listen to opinions and not just by the Minister for the Environment. This amendment has dark points. We asked questions. But we didn't get answers. In this sense, we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u433	The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Apostle Panas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Today, a debate is closed, mainly of a technical nature. It is important that this debate in the bill closes overall with positive regulations and with a common confession of a good debate on the part of the primary sector. But, Minister, it is from now on that kind of bill to go beyond the theoretical debate in practice, namely the next day of the primary and agri-food sector. So I want to believe that today a circle of bills of this type is being closed and we are entering another logic. So what's the logic? It is the logic of concrete proposals, of concrete moves and of concrete drafts, which will give another perspective to the part of the farmer, of production and of processing in general. For our part, we have tried to be substantial in the direction of the bill and I think that we are giving our mark through the proposals we have made, that we also want in this transitional period that we are going through, that we have support and support for the farmer and the farmer, but at second level we can now talk about the country's new production model. And this cannot be apart from the agricultural and livestock sectors and the fisheries sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u435	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Kokalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would not take the floor for a second, but I would like to ask the Minister a question from a farmer from Thebes. "While seeing the government majority opposition to the opposition I ask: The debts of the cooperatives and the well-known packages of Hatzigakis, Kontos, etc., when were they created?" Can I answer him that they were created in the SYRIZA government? Oh, no! I think he's not responsible for an Opposition. Not that criticism or rivalry is good, but it does not show a responsible attitude. Farmers also know our mistakes. They also know the inconsistency of subsidies, producer groups, the professional farmer's institution, but they also know our mistakes. And I come to the bill. What was proven by all the speeches? What we have said since the beginning. Eighty percent of all Members' speeches were not mentioned in the bill, not because it is negative but because it does not respond to current, urgent problems of the agricultural world, ELGA, compensation, support for agricultural products. And we're right. We have raised our objections firstly to consumer misleading - we have proposed that fraud legislation be tightened and this cumulative - and, secondly, to industrial cannabis. Of course, in industrial cannabis now you are in a difficult position. On the other hand, two years ago you said that we were legislating for the cultivation of hashish. You have to decide. The Qualified Opposition has therefore raised these issues and what we disagree with. The question of what is, Minister, and I must say that you must do your thing. From autumn onwards, other products will need support. You must take advantage of all the opportunities provided by European legislation, modernise the ELGA. We will be with you in changing the regulation, but not in other projects, after you have informed the National Representation. You must also take measures such as the legalisation of agricultural oil. That is what the rural world wants today, no matter how much theory you say next, no matter how nice it is to present! Don't laugh. As much as one defender, the essence of the case, whatever you do, the farmer will say next day: "I don't have agricultural oil. I wasn't compensated in time. They have not been compensated at all." So this is a temporary victory. I advise you to look at the substance. Do works and, if possible, do no words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u437	The rapporteur, Mr Stamenitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u438	This bill is a bill that answers farmers' problems, unless we do not live in this country and we cannot understand that the number one problem of Greek producers is mimicism and Hellenism. Isn't that what everyone says either produces fruit or produces milk or produces meat? And this bill responds to it in the most decisive way. Obviously, it does not solve the whole problem, but it solves a sovereign who is the penalties. And the administrative fines are increasing, but the criminal part of the cases comes in. It is, in fact, a bill that corresponds with the election speeches and actions. This is what the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is doing from the first day that government policy applies, and this bill is a government bill of consistency. Not only in the bill of cooperatives, but we also told you throughout the committees, but also in plenary, how the Ministry responded to all the problems that farmers had. I repeat them to hear them and to hear them and those who are watching us on television. Who was that? The dominant problem of land workers answered it both in difficult times and the quick way they came. We had five thousand seven hundred calls in Pella. Last year we had three hundred, seven hundred, and the bachelor was applied. Unless you consider the issue of land workers to be minor, namely legal work in the fields. We consider it to be sovereign, as do all the problems we have with the pandemic, whether we are discussing the fisheries issue - EUR 15 million has been allocated - or we are discussing the issue of flowers and the rest are coming. I have not seen anything that the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has not answered and is within planning, and I believe that in the next year, we will see all these other bills that will make us say that, in fact, we have a period of time that we have left the words and we are implementing what we have said in election with acts and bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, ten seconds I want to say about the amendments. We are voting in favour of the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Agriculture and the negative amendment by the Ministry of the Environment late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u440	We are completing the process of voting on the draft law and I call on the Step to close the sitting before the vote, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u441	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to thank all my fellow Members for their participation in this two-day and quite extensive debate. I should first of all like to thank the Members of the Co-Population for their warm support for the bill, but also for their colleagues for some fruitful, critical or critical comments and for their wider interest in the primary sector. I would like to thank my colleagues at the Ministry, the State Secretary who is present, the missing State Secretary, because their contribution to all this effort we are doing, and especially to the effort of the bill because it has been decisive. Without their own contribution, we could not get here today. Let me begin by responding to some of the issues of the bill, because, indeed, the debate is now open and after it has been opened, I would also like to say a few thoughts on the arguments that have been put forward. First of all, to clarify things. There in SYRIZA, your opposition must make it a little more coherent to get together, because on the one hand this morning I heard that I am contradictory and I support cannabis and yesterday I heard that I am an anticannabis and I undermine the cultivation of cannabis. So you have to pack it up. Tell me what you want, which one you want me to answer, so we can finish it. I can't be both. Or I have a stand against it, so I'm consistent with my initial position, or I have a stand in favour, so why are you calling for cannabis? Let's finish it. It's not all happening together. You are again in vertigo opposition, while things are extremely simple. Let us resolve these and the issues they have dealt with. Listen. The whole story with the industrial cannabis - we are talking about it now, because this is the subject of the intervention we are doing - the whole thing starts in 2013, where there is an amendment to the drug law. This amendment does not have multiple limits for tetrahydrocannabinol, the THC, which, as we have said, is the psychotropic substance contained in the cannabis, which is why specific regulation is needed. It only sets a limit of 0.2%. It's all over and nothing else. That's the 2013 arrangement. The 2013 regulation is a regulation that has come under the wider European policy. It is part of the European strategy for this crop and is introduced by the New Democracy. Then, Mr Kokalis, in order to be informed, your own legislative anxiety and revolt begins, because I do not know if you have followed the legislative development of this story. In 2017, you change and bring 0.6% for the first time. In 2018, you change again and you retreat. You're putting in a restraining order. You put 0.6% on it. As we go up, they come and tell you "yes, but you still know the upper limit is not certain if it bears the cultivation responsibility" and you come in 2018 and you put the provision that I am now abolishing. The question is simple and I explained it. The original arrangement was that of 2013 with 0,2%. In this provision, the original, we are actually coming back. I am absolutely consistent, because this is a provision - because you spoke about the contradiction I have - which the New Democracy Government suggested, this provision of 0.2%. I remove the provisions that you brought in 2017 and 2018. I challenge you once again to tell me if you believe 0.6%, why didn't you legislate? And why do you have two successive legislative interventions on this matter? The answer is simple. Because 0.6% is an increase in the psychiatrist. You didn't want to do it. That's right! On the other hand, you wanted to do it - you are the contradictory - and in order to be able to do it, you found the right argument that it is due to or to justify whether it is due and to show tolerance in the climatic conditions that the whole scientific community has told you that it cannot be documented. So, what did you do? You put 0.6% on the back door, artificially. What am I abolishing? Artificial. That's what I'm abolishing. And where are we going? The original layout. That's the whole point. I am neither inconsistent nor are there any great and terrible debate on this. I haven't heard you tell me yet, if you want to take it to 0.6%. I've asked you four times. Yes or no? You made up your mind today? Why do you four and a half years look back and say 0.2% or 0.6%? You also said, "Yes, but when 0.6% is due to climatic conditions, it is tolerated, but then it cannot be tolerated, so we can take it on the grounds of the agency to prosecute the drug law, etc. So do you, once again, legislate twice on the same subject in two years and now what do you come to tell me? That's it. We are now going to the issue of recovery. I don't want Ministers to ask me any obvious questions that have obvious answers. You asked me: 'What if we do not proceed with a procedure for recovering these 90 million? Is anything going to happen?' To reverse the question. What do you think? Is nothing going to happen? I heard Mr. Red saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u442	That's what Mr. Red said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u443	Is nothing going to happen? Let go, Mr. Arachovite. I hear and I understand what I hear and people understand what they hear. Because here they'll suddenly think that I had a nice day of inspiration, and I thought I'd go get 90 million of the cooperatives! Isn't that your provision? Isn't that your negotiation? Aren't those your terms, which I come and suggest today? It's all yours, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u444	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u445	All set up, good job! So, if you do so, you come and tell me - says Mr Kokkalis - 'What will happen'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u446	I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u447	Hear even how you suggested, fear says. Invoke fear, which is the worst counselor. Atrocious Mr. Red, Mr. Red the brave! The brave is equal to 450 million fines to the taxpayer, but Mr. Kokkalis won't pay them. He'll take them to the taxpayer's backs. Should we explain the mechanism? These hundreds of millions of dollars have been allocated to the cooperatives. They were found to be in breach of competition law. They were issued by the State budget in 1992 and 1994. The committee is coming and says 'go to recover', that is, what? Take them back and put them back in the state budget. One could say "What do you care?" I don't want it in the state budget. I don't care, kid. They were given in 1992. I don't care. Can I have my personal opinion on this? I consider recovery to be inexperienced after all these years. I'm telling you straight away. But that is the Community regulation! So, we're going further now? These amounts must be repaid after negotiation - which 450 million went down to 90 million - in the state budget. Mr. Red asks. And what if they don't come back? Answer. They will come and impose a fine for the non-recovery of 450 million. That's what's gonna happen. Can you tell me exactly what you want us to do? You tell me "go and agree with the cooperatives". Firstly, with the cooperative institutions and you spoke and you speak and you know that they are in this direction. You tell me "go and agree with one of the cooperatives". Here's what you're talking about. So if the alpha cooperative tells me no, what do we do? One of them told me no, he doesn't. Do we make the recovery or not make it or pay 450 million? So land. You have served in these positions. To hear them from anywhere else that is completely ignorant or pretends to be ignorant and unjustified, okay. But you can't say that. So, as far as this is concerned, the criticism is timely. I have heard the criticism 'it is not important and important for the bill'. If the bill is not important and important, why do you vote for it? This is a bill that passes through the House with a huge majority! The New Democracy, the Civic Opposition and the third largest party of the parliament, KINAL, are voting for the bill. If it's so second, third, fourth, why do you support it? That was the fundamental contradiction of this debate these days. Something to say, but we like the bill. And we're going down. Since this bill was not so important, why did they come here and write about a hundred Members and speak? So if we bring a major bill, what are we gonna do here? Shouldn't we fit in? It's a hundred people coming to the lowlands. If it's important, what happens? So there has been an attempt to underestimate, and the truth is that it is an important bill with a crown theme of Hellenism. But you have said a number of other things and now let me go to them. First of all, you referred to the programme - how do you call this programme now? "We live upright"? - "We stay upright." Good, what is "Are we staying up"? It's 300 million euros in the primary sector, 150 million times 2. Such an opposition I also oppose, because if I are going to ask ‘why 150 million times two?’ To do so for 3, 450 million, 150 by 4, 600 million.' Mr. Arsenis who likes these could multiply them. We put them next door, and the opposition is who's gonna say the biggest number, whoever says the biggest number won. Is that how you're gonna make your opposition? Let us come here and see specifically, that is to say, we are dealing with the consequences of the coronary. How much are you telling me? Are you telling me 300 million? You want 300 million? Shall we put 300 million? Let's go. We've committed 150 million, right? Plus the fishing de minimis that is about twenty-fifths, plus the de minimis of rural development that is another 25 million, 200 million, plus 100 million from the fisheries programme, which is being redesigned, 300 million, plus 41, which is the measure that we expect from the reallocation of the rural development programme 341 million. Are we okay or not? Shall I leave it or continue it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u448	Keep going! What you're doing isn't right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u449	More? Why? See, you took me straight to 700 now! So, we don't do a job. Organize, have a crowded conversation! Come and say regular things, not whatever! Then you say the second: 'But you do nothing!' I'm not doing anything! To go now to the fact that I'm not doing anything. I'm starting to say what we've given up since the beginning of the year. We gave EUR 1 million to the customs producers - defects and an old loan, here from the previous ones -2 million - these are de minimis - for the greenhouses in Crete and the damages they suffered, EUR 5 million, EUR 4.3 million cotton producers in Evros - a promise that yours has not been implemented here, our Government - 1.5 million Evros cereals, yours, which we are implementing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u450	Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u451	Well done to us, but you're not telling us the good news, you're telling us we're doing nothing. And now we are going to the coastal fishermen of EUR 15 million de minimis. There is, of course, a payment in progress, and Vassilis Yoyakas has already said - after consultation with us and following the excellent suggestion made by the State Secretary - another 5 million de minimis in the small fishing industry not the large size. This is the EUR 120,000 in the new context, let me say that. It is EUR 28.8 million in these de minimis. Now we're going to community. Already EUR 10.5 million for flower producers. The platform has been opened, they're coming in, they're reporting. I said that 15m euros would go to the people's market producers. I have spoken about strengthening ovine and caprine farming, I will say it specifically, there is a class of size that is circulating, we will see it. How the decision will come out is a matter of a few days. And you know, even that thought, don't cancel it! It is very easy for us to make horizontal policies. The fact that we are practicing to find and weigh exactly how we do it, balanced by data, different and possibly conflicting needs, is a work done by the services in order to reach the fairest possible way. I understand the need to speed up, as quickly as possible, but to do so more quickly and correctly. That's right, it says that we may have to take another week, get another ten days - and I mean from what one might have originally planned - in order to achieve a better result. Finally, the result will be judged. I have also said that asparagus will be given and a study is already being carried out. I have said that the strawberries will be reinforced and a study is already being carried out. I have said that pig farming will be strengthened and a study is already being carried out. Great fishing and average fishing will take money - substantial money - from the fishing programme of 100 million. I have said that wine will be distilled, 15 to 17 million euros, plus green harvesting 2 million more. And we are looking at deciding whether or not to strengthen tomatoes, cucumbers, greenhouses - we are studying evidence - fur animals, which have also suffered damage. You after what they do a number - if I put them to you in total and estimated at more than EUR 170 million - are telling me that we have no aid policy? Is that what you're saying? Who's gonna hear that? Where do you say that? And at the time people come and they'll be amplified - why are you telling them why we didn't go to the eighths - and they'll see in their bills five thousand, what are you going to tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u452	All right, I'll talk to you about this!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u453	Farmers say it! Go to the fields and see what they say! You should go! There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u454	Don't interrupt! Mr. Red!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u455	I'm sorry to interrupt, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u456	Don't tell me about the fields!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u457	Let's all go to the fields and listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Red sent me to the fields. Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u459	Yeah, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u460	All right, I'll go, of course, don't worry! Because you know, there is a privilege here that is not linked to the person, linked to the post and to the function. The privilege is that you talk regularly with farmers, systematically, institutional, cooperatives, individual issues. The Minister for Rural Development, as you know, has been through - and this is what he is doing. And it's not that that particular minister doesn't do it, he's doing it completely. So I understand the agony of our producers to finish the process an hour ago and to proceed as quickly as possible and to address the issue. That's understandable. At the end of the day, what will remain is that they were strengthened. It will not remain if they were strengthened on the first day of the month or on the fifteenth, is that they were strengthened. In fact, what is crucial is to strengthen fairly and correctly. That's what's gonna stay. But let's go further. The coroner has passed, and it hasn't been fully passed yet. You have seen an image destructive to Greek production. Is that right? The rice went bad? Historically higher both in demand and in price. Did the durum wheat go bad? The historically higher both in demand and in price.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u461	Did the farmers get anything from the wheat? You're being misinformed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Red, don't interrupt! Mr. Red, keep your cool! Mr. Red! So I don't understand your reactions when you don't agree, do you protest? Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u463	I heard you, okay, don't get upset! Did the kiwi go bad? Historical high decade! Did oranges go bad? Increasing 15% of exports to fruit and vegetables. I'm not saying there were no branches that went bad. All these branches that I have described and which we have strengthened have been affected. And that's what we said - what? - that we're against horizontal policies. Why? Because within the wider agri-food sector there were branches that went well and there were branches that went badly. We therefore need to choose where we support so that this money can get a place and be real support for our producers. So what is it that we don't have a strategy? Let's go to 'we don't have a strategy'. You have often come to the House, Mr Arachovitis, to tell them, when you were Minister, what have you done and what are you going to do? Because we have been telling this House from now on and what we are going to do. And tell me that we don't have a strategy in the tenth, when we made the farmers' insurance, we brought rules on interbranches, we made regulations, and the law that we brought about interprofessionals, abolishing your own decision - interprofessionals on feta, on nuclei fruits, and it is ready to make the interprofessional legumes. We made the ministerial decision on the clonal choice. We've been through two laws in the first ten months, the moment you had spent three laws in four and a half years. We made the ministerial decision on the distribution of vine rights. We've brought the ratification of the Hellenisms. We changed the legislative framework for grazing management plans. We were faced with and we are the only country that had African plague, we entered the third place, we came out of the third part thanks precisely to the actions we have taken in time. It was for the first time in the coronary something incredible. Remote IAC statements for the vast majority of our producers from their homes. Four hundred thousand such applications have been made. A huge change in the digital culture and in the way in which the IACC was approached. Reduction of taxation of cooperative schemes. Reduction of HISBIA. Reduction of the tax rate. You are telling me that we have done nothing to reduce production costs. Is the agricultural photovoltaic legislation not a reduction in production costs in the energy part? Change the institutional framework for PDOs in order to become operational. We are already waiting for three or four new WHIs, presidential decrees, to be drawn up within the next few years. Provision for the collection of dead animals. The Ministerial Decision on the Greenhouse specifications has been consulted. Regulations based on 13a on employment of third-country nationals. Settings for the bachelor. Arrangements for the withdrawal of foreign workers in order to avoid a productive problem. Settings so that retired workers can be in the field. Avoidance of duties in the United States. Unlock improvement and acceleration plans. The greatest absorption in PAA. We have executed and completed the measure of the agricultural advisers that you have given up. And now you're telling me we don't have a strategy? Ten months? You haven't done it for five years. Only you've heard of it, you've been dizzy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u464	You see us for dizzy people?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u465	Excuse me. Are you telling me what our work is in these ten months and whether we have a strategy? I don't want to eat you any more time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u466	LEADER?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u467	In 'LEADER'. I have heard the terrible argument from Mr Kegeroglu too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u468	Mr. Red, when you were in this Step so you wanted to be interrupted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u469	I don't mind. Mr. Kocket, I'm pleased to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u470	That's how you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u471	We're in mutual pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u472	This is where we were. We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u473	They ask me about the rural development programme and the 'LEADER'. How much money did you let us find for the balancing compensation? You've eaten it all. Two hundred and forty million have to be found in the next three years, or they will fall into the state budget by redesigning the PDP. We've got to find all the 41 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u474	He's in the EDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u475	Mr. Arachovite, let them go. Listen to the exercise we're doing now. Let's go get it in the budget while you've left nothing, I know it. Thank you very much. This is like telling me not to take them from the Rural Development Programme - which should normally have been there - because you ate them so that you could run a pre-election game and throw the taxpayer while it was supposed to be European money. I'm doing the exercise to find the money and you're going out to blame me for this story. Watch out and we'll find them. We're gonna do the drill. It'll work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u476	You have nothing to find.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u477	Why do you have such a riot? You're upset. Have a seat. You'll hear them. Don't get upset. Don't be troubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u478	Do you see us for agitated?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u479	Respect the way this Parliament has been working for years. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u480	Mr. Red, listen. You're interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, the show is finally over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Red, sit down. I don't know what show you're talking about. Are you talking about your show?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u483	I guess she's talking to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u484	If you want me to count now in the Minutes how many times you and Mr Arachovitis have interrupted, I can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u485	If Mr. Askins is sad, I'll stop talking. Because I don't want him to be sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u486	Please warmly, do not interrupt and notice the words you use. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u487	This Rural Development Programme in a sense is the victim of its success, because it has run too fast and its flexibility is therefore limited. This is something which, to tell the truth, has been seen in the Council of Ministers. We are all dealing with this as one of the issues. We hope that the measure proposed by the Commissioner will be passed. It's what you've heard of the 5,000 euros for every one affected. Don't misunderstood our producers. It is not 5,000 for the six hundred five thousand who make UFO statements. That makes some billions. Forty-one million is the limit of the measure. All 41 million will have to be found through the flexibility of the AAS, which also explains a number of options that we are going to have in the context of the AACC's operation to find this money. Watch out now. In this respect, we are all finding and putting in additional money for 'LEADER'. How much more did we do? One hundred and seven million. I hear Mr. Kegeroglu telling me something strange. "It was," he says, "170 million overcompensation". Mr. Arachovite, is overcompensation money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u488	Of course it's money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u489	Of course it's money? The overcompensation is that you have a sum of money and you put it on when the measures that are to be taken are not going to be accepted. That's the overcompensation. It is not that you have committed amounts. You are putting people in and giving them the opportunity to enter, in order that, while the amount is specific, then if the objections are accepted, if measures are not implemented, if programmes are not implemented, they will be in and out of money will not be lost. That's overcompensation. It's not money. So you have not committed any money. You have put the basic amount in and then in the function that is done you have to put other amounts. And we come to these conditions and add 100 million more to the 'LEADER'. And you're still grumbling? All your charms have been made. There's nothing we haven't satisfied with. That is why criticism is also being blocked. And I'm going to the last item and I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance and my colleagues. Big deal about compensation and ELGA. It's a real concern of the producers. It's clear. Our producers are suffering damage and, indeed, are anxious about what is going to happen with these losses. I heard a complaint from Mr Arachovite, and I want to answer it. I think it has a basis for this complaint. He says Mr Arachovitis: "It is not right to strike us for what we have done in the previous period. This comparison of what's the point? Now it's you. We did what we did." A little - very much said, Mr. Red. It says 'we've made some mistakes.' That is, of course, the vague 'we have made some mistakes' and we are saying this a little to get this over with. We are saying 'we have made some mistakes'. We're not telling who. We're just going down. 'Okay, baby, we've done it.' Does the ELGA agree that it should be budgetaryly sound and balanced? Why else would he pay all these compensations he has to pay for? To agree that the main debate on ELA is to see what its financial situation is? I mean, Mr. Arachovitis and Mr. Kokkalis, what you've given us. And what did you tell the producers? Do you know why this conversation is opening? Because when you raise your finger and say, "Vorides, you haven't fixed the ruler, fix the rule to put more damage. Create the regulation to make more cover." In ten months' time, Vorides will not ask'my sweet, Mr Arachovitis and Mr. Kokalis, why didn't you change the regulation for four and a half years?' I ask that when you shake my finger because I didn't change it in ten months. And if Borides don't ask, "For this ELGA who you gave me in my condition, did you give him away, with the fiscal imbalance where he is, how does he shake my finger?" To accept as our joint plan the reform of the ELGA as our common goal. To accept that this is the critical debate but, in the meantime, also to tell the truth to producers? Let us tell the truth that ELGA collects 170 million and pays 210 million losses, and when you get up and say 'I want to put more cover', you have to say the 210 million that you want to do. Pay 300 million losses? I want to, too. I'm the first person to want it. But where do we get them? Or I'll do what you guys did. I'll close the ELGA in a year. So that's not possible. So we have to have this conversation. In this debate that is the reform of the ELGA, there will be a number of things. It will contain the reform of the regulation, but it will contain more specific discussions on contributions, allocations, damages. We'll have some nice talk about various arrangements that you've been through, which you've had, which you've had, bring revenues to the ELGA two million million and put him in another ten. We'll talk about this. Don't think that's the way it is, because I'm doing what comes to me' then go back to the budget. So this debate is going to take place. Because I see too much anxiety about the issue of privatisation, I want us to be more precise. The New Democracy programme for which it was voted - has not lied - and for which it has been approved, says that the private insurance sector is involved in agricultural insurance. That's what he says. The form, the way, the extent, all of this is the subject of the biggest debate and we will see how they will be taken, because this - to be informed - does not depend on my political will. It depends on what the companies want, depends on what the other side wants, depends on the way the other side cooperates, depends on what it sets out to do, because we have a condition in all this. We want to improve agricultural insurance for the producer. We want, at the end of this reform, our producers to be in a better place of insurance than the one they are in today. Is that a target okay, or is it ruining you? So if we find a shape in which our producers will be better than they are today, with or without any involvement of private insurance, you'll be sad because you first object to anything private? That's the conversation. This debate will take place at a time when, under the conditions which must and will be done very thoroughly, you must be sure. Be ready for this, because we will listen to you very carefully. I would once again like to thank you very much for this debate. I would like to say to you that this political leadership listens respectably to everyone's comments. I would like to thank my fellow Members of the Co-Population, because, indeed, the rural world is one of our sidelines. Because, indeed, our resignation is popular, your voice conveys the voice of farmers and is heard by this political leadership loud and clear. I would like to thank you for your contribution, for your comments, to your sensitivity to the rural world. I think the rural world has already come to its conclusion. He knows who solves issues, knows who fooled him, knows who's around him, knows who's fighting to improve his life. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u490	The debate on the articles, amendments and the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is adjourned at the end of the debate: ‘Requirements of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the articles, amendments and the entire bill and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out to you that the vote includes 31 articles, 2 ministerial amendments, the farewell article and the whole. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you should “watch” the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u491	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u492	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u493	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Standards of responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by the articles and by a majority as a whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u494	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u495	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-03-S1-commons.u496	With the consent of the House at 22.45 p.m. the sitting on Friday, June 5, 2020, at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions; b) debate on the Question No 17/3-3-2020 question of the President of the Greek Solution Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection and Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "NGO Action - NGO funding from a Greek state".
