ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy", which is organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Pappo Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 23 January 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 409/21-1-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Stop running the hospitality of children and adolescents, at risk of “The House of ARSIS” in Oreokastro Thessaloniki”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 383/15-1-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "In despair the olive growers of Messinia and the whole country, due to the constantly falling price of olive oil." 3. The question by number 398/21-1-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Compatible to the workers in the European Navy of Varvaressos S.A.”. 4. The Question No 404/21-1-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Ex-institutional Benefit and Social Income of Solidarity". A. PERSONS OF second-circuit Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 386/15-1-2020 by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelias Ligoulis to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The Ministry of Justice is burying" the case of Domenikos Holocaust. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 394/20-1-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "What practical measures have been taken and what will be taken to reverse the situation and stop the abandonment of the State Institute of Bytina". 3. The question by number 391/20-1-2020 of the Deputy of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The functional and organisational restructuring of the FAO Corfu". 4. The Question No 406/21-1-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Addressing the problems of the Sikaridi Foundation". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1966/15-11-20 question of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Evolution of court investigations on the lending of political parties". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2546/11-12-20 question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Creative Employment Centres (CDEs) and children/persons with disabilities (CDEs) of municipalities with stable funding and permanent jobs". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION The only issue of today's sitting is, in accordance with the special agenda released on 16 January 2020, namely five full days ago, as required, the election of the President of the Republic by roll-call vote, in accordance with the provisions of Rules 32 of the Constitution and 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. As you know, for the election of the President of the Republic, Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that Parliament shall vote on proposals which may only be made by the parliamentary groups. Other nominations are not announced in the House. Under the Rules of Procedure, therefore, I have the honour to inform you that a written proposal from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group was submitted to the President of Parliament, by its President and Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, proposing that Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou be nominated as President of the Republic. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This letter will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and read as follows: ‘New REPUBLIC PARLIAMENTARY GROUP PRESIDENT. — The next To be completed Mr. Constantino Tsouula, President of the Greek Parliament My dear Mr. President, According to Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group proposes, as a candidate for the President of the Hellenic Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropou. Yours sincerely Mrs Mitsotakis’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u2	According to Rule 140(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Members who do not wish to express their preference for the candidate proposed, declare ‘PARENT’. The procedure to be followed is as follows: two Members will be called on on the list, who will give their Members' names and count against the votes, i.e. they will perform at the end of the vote and vote. The Rules stipulate that it should be one of the Communism and one of the Opposition. Subsequently, Mr Vassilios Yoyakas from New Democracy and Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA are called on the list. Every Member who listens to his name will be raised by his position and will clearly state his preference, i.e. the name of the nominated candidate as the President of the Republic or the statement 'PACON'. The voters will each separately list the Members' preferences expressed in the list and against the name of the member voting. It is advisable that, in order not to make mistakes, the list will be produced at a slow pace so that time is given for the precise note of each colleague's preference. At the end of the vote, the voters will gather from the special columns, which distinguish the roll-call vote, the result of the proposed vote, as well as the votes with the indication "PARS" and, after signing the practical list, they will deliver it to the President of Parliament for an announcement of the result in this House. The list, after being signed by the Secretaries of Parliament and the President, will then be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. For this reason, I would ask the Secretary-General of Parliament not to withdraw after the vote has ended, but to remain for the signature of the minutes. I would also remind you that, under Rule 140 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, there is no justification for voting and that the President's election does not precede a debate. In accordance with Article 32(3) of the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall elect who shall be elected in today's first vote by a majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members. If this majority is not assembled, the vote shall be repeated after five days, again in accordance with the Constitution. I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 28th Municipal School of Acharnon. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask that we read the list again in terms of absentees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u4	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues from Mr Antony Samaras, Nikolaos Syrmalenios and Mr Alexiadis, who know that they will not be present in today's roll-call vote and inform us by letter that if they were present they would vote in favour of Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes. Also, MP II Thessaloniki of Mera25 Mr. Konstantina Adamou in a letter informs us that due to recent birth and in conjunction with a strong virion it cannot be present in today's vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a clear roll-call vote on the election of the President of the Hellenic Republic. A total of 294 Members voted. There were six Members present. In favour of Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou's nomination they voted 261 MPs. [[Applause from the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement]] They voted for 33 MPs. In accordance with Article 32(3) of the Constitution, the President of the Republic is elected by Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou, whose nomination has not only been concentrated but also greatly exceeded the increased majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members in accordance with the nominal list below. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 24a]] [[Upright Members of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement applaud vividly and protractedly]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House to approve such a resolution as the Bureau, on behalf of the entire House, visits the President-elected President of the Republic to announce the outcome of the vote and its election. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u8	The House has therefore approved. I am also aware that pursuant to Article 33(2) of the Constitution, the President of the Republic, before taking up its duties, will give before the House the nominated by the Constitution. The President of the Republic will be sworn on 13 March 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u9	The House granted the authorization requested. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Halandri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-22-S1-commons.u10	With the agreement of the House at 11.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 23 January 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work: 1) vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "National Authority of Higher Education, Special Accounts for Higher Education, Research and Technology Institutions and Other Provisions" and 2) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Election of Members", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
