ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Wednesday 20 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 6898/15-2020 by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in the management of laboratory control of the pandemic - still pays from their pocket the diagnostic tests in the private sector." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 700/17-5-2020 by Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘The ineffectiveness of the options for non-Service loans (Services) and the exclusion from the arrangements for the loans of fire-fighting areas’. 3. The Question No 710/18-5-2020 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let the co-operation of Governments - EU - industrialists at the expense of small vineyard growers and mushrooms be stopped now." 4. The Question No 691/11-5-2020 by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3 of the South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Measures to relieve and support legal and other scientific disciplines." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 706/18-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, entitled ‘Financing for the Internal Tourism Programme for all 2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Arsenis, on his excellent report. 3. The question raised by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Kegeroglou for his excellent report. 4. The question by number 712-18-5-2020, by MP, Athens, Meraggios Adamopoulou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Inadmissible police operations against civilians in the squares and selective repression." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnatzis informs us that all the topical questions will be discussed today, eight figures. Before we begin with the first of these, I will make a general remark. Since this Chamber has been in operation since 10 a.m., it has not even been able to undergo the required ventilation because the previous meeting had to end at 16 a.m. and ended at 17 a.m. We have eight topical questions, and then we also have a timely question, which will take over three hours to complete. Tomorrow and tomorrow will be the same. The time has to be applied, namely that of Members of Parliament for two minutes - not the generalisation of the current questions on other issues - and a period of three minutes. And so is the Ministers. There will be three minutes in the protology and three minutes in their denology, because otherwise time won't come. I would ask all colleagues, but also the ministers, to keep track of the times. The first question under number 669/8-5-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Energy exclusion of Giannitsa and Veria from the Programme for the Development of Distribution Networks for the Public Gas Distribution Network (DEN)’. The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Gerasios Thomas. Mrs. Jackie has the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, my question remains timely, because it should be revealed why this regular withdrawal from the TEN and from the RIS has taken place. For the record alone, I can only remind you that, in an obvious co-operation with the TEN, the RAE has, in its programme for the construction of networks in Janitsa and Veroia, awarded 50% of projects co-financed by the NSRF and by the European Investment Bank for the remainder. In fact, in order to achieve this, it 'paid' at the time of the completion of the first ten kilometres of the first year declared by the TENs and interpreted arbitraryly, if you wish, creating the first year as a first stage and arbitrary interpreting paragraph 2b of Article 30c of Law 2001/2011, but giving the possibility of deduction after an eighteen-month period from the total declared date of completion of the overall project, which was never moved by the TENs. Sadness to arbitraryness. So by pressing the RAE, it endured this project and not only this, but it also created the following: it gave these works, which it gave, to individuals, and indeed to the same individual who had given Edessa a few months ago, who had also given Descate and had given the Polykastro. All of this to me, Minister, that is to say, the reintegration into the consultation of Veroia and the Giannitsa, more does me, if you want, as a return to the original plan to earn time, rather than as a assumption of a mistake that will not be corrected. In any case, the scandal of transferring an over-limited public interest project to a private person who does not even have the capacity, which is questionable in terms of its implementation and, if you like, in terms of its functioning, must be covered. So there is a scandalous management of creating essentially a monopolist in the field of natural gas, in the energy sector, which has other side effects, let me tell you. It can lead, as it has already led to Edessa, into lame networks in the cities. In Edessa the built networks from the TEN would have 50 km and now the private will do it by ten. It can never be implemented, as is the case many times, because it is not given the financial capacity of the individual to build them. Of course, this also involves an increase in the tariffs for consumers in these towns, because operating and manufacturing costs are shared only by the particular consumers in this city and do not go between all the consumers in the region. In any case, Minister, you should tell us here whether or not this withdrawal, which was made by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy together with the TEN, is a change of direction and intention of public expression in favour of resolving the public nature of the project, or whether it is a task for the TEN to get time through consultation and, in any case, to be able to support with a private framework for its ability to build the project. In any case, I'm also on the subject of RAE, where RAE may have approved SYRIZA's government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u3	Complete, Mrs. Jackri, your question is well known, it has been written.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u4	I'll be done. ...the work with the specific character for Edessa and the Giannitsa, but she, by canceling herself as a servant of two masters, did the favour in general of the new political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, that is, essentially RAE became an ARAE, that is to say, a deregulation of energy. Indeed, it has also created a fait accompli, let me say, public works become private and public finances diverted elsewhere. Where else can I tell you, Minister? In any case, however, I know that the project here is co-financed and that the removal of public participation will effectively end up with European funding. So I want you to tell me if, by turning RAE into an ARAE deregulation authority, if...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u5	Now you've doubled the time. You don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u6	I'd be done, Mr. President. If you will build a deflection pipeline for the Sectoral Public Investment Programme, therefore also a diversion in an unknown direction that I call a loss of European funding for these projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u7	The two minutes were four and a half minutes. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look. I think a lot has been said. I'm going to stick to the real facts. Firstly, this morning the TEN submitted a new development programme to RAE, which, following letters and assurances from the services of central Macedonia and the municipalities in Giannitsa, reviewed the development programme, which had and re-emerged the Giannitsa and Veria with assurances that the procedures will run and from where implementation was in nineteen months, the projects will be in eighteen months. The TEN also submitted that in September it would become a review of the development programme and retain its right to apply for cancellation or appeal. As far as Giannitsa and Veroia are concerned, the issue has therefore been resolved in cooperation with the regions and local authorities so that these projects can be accelerated. Secondly, I would like to say that we had received an operational plan from the TEN, which had not been approved until the new administration of the TEN had arrived. This project was developed, the energy municipalities of western Macedonia were integrated and the new TENA programme, which was submitted, has increased investment from 233 million to 270 million for the period '20-24 compared with the old administration of the TEN, which had not even been approved, had not gone far enough to be approved. There has also been an increase in kilometres, both at average pressure and at low pressure, and in total we have more investment in the TEN-T investment framework. Thirdly, I would like to say that the role of RAE is provided for by the law, which has been done by the previous government, which sets some eighteen months at the start of projects. It is the PAE which, as a regulated authority, increases the time in which investments must be made in each city and puts tight margins on the TENs and on any other investor, because the TENs are also in privatization and therefore we want these time limits to be respected. There is therefore no question of dismissing the Yannits and Veroe if there is good cooperation with the local authorities, as there is, for example, in all the energy municipalities in western Macedonia, who were not in and in. Where there is good cooperation, the projects go ahead and proceeded with the review and are within the TEN programme and the Yannitsa and Veria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister, for you have been precise in time. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for three minutes, absolutely three minutes, because you exceeded the protology by two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u10	Minister, you know very well that in order to reinvigorate Giannitsa and Veroia to the TEN programme, and in fact also to carry out the tendering process, to implement them, RAE must first of all annul its decision, the decision to award them from the TEN programme, and also to withdraw the authorisations given to individuals for the specific distribution of gas to specific cities. None of this has happened. In the general outcry you know the Ministry of Energy and the TEDA voluntarily let me say, because they couldn't do any different in front of the deadlock, they basically re-entered the consultation of Giannitsa and Veria, while something similar had not happened with the program. So, are we legitimately wondering this energy planning you have done, this process can be seen as part of the country's more general planning? Will this not be subjected to the TEN to annul the decision which the Minister for Energy has so touchingly informed us? Will the TEN be re-introduced in order to allow RAE to formally, officially and effectively revise its decision to reincorporate the Giannitsa and Veria? And, in any case, if Veria and Giannitsa are really to be reinstated at the end, and if they are still being revoked and the permissions from private individuals will be given - because for a year now, Minister, you have done absolutely nothing - to implement the timetable for the works of the specific and generally the entire region of Central Macedonia, the networks there? And because you caused me on the energy policies developed by SYRIZA's government and its effectiveness, let me say that the problem of the gas distribution of the region from Evros to Kalamata and Sparta began in 2016 by SYRIZA and its preparation and implementation, as well as the distribution, universal coverage of the cities that joined the programme with gas distribution networks so that citizens have access to it, as well as were integrated into the ESRB of the regions of Central Macedonia, East Macedonia and Central Greece, these eighteen cities for the development of distribution networks with a 50% subsidy. Also, in 2018, I would like to say that an innovative loan was received from the European Investment Bank for the integration and financing of these projects and also a law that enabled everything to be done with absolute transparency and clarity. Also, Minister, which is very important, there was an agreement between the Greek Government and the TAP in 2016 on the conversion of TAP Valves into gas exit points so that the cities of western Macedonia and Pella can fly. I have also been struggling for four years and nothing has happened in this direction. On the contrary, what has happened over your days? The lengths of the gas networks within the towns you take out of programming and you assign private individuals, as happened with Edessa, who told you about fifty miles [50 km] only within the city were ten kilometers [10 km] throughout the city. You are giving distribution licences to a private person who here is also incompatible with that, since the market vs. that this individual is at the same time a trader and a gas distributor, which is prohibited by legislation. You also increase the distribution tariffs for consumers in the cities that are allocated to the private sector, as the costs, as I have already said before, are shared only between consumers in the same city.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u11	Please finish, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u12	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. I do not want to be a veteran of evil, and I hope that the Minister's responses will disprove me, but as I see it, what happened on the Patras - Tower highway where the government has preferred to lose four years and millions of funding to go ahead with its private agenda to serve its friends as I think it is the work of the Yanks and Veroia. I am essentially afraid, Mr Minister, that there will be a further loss of the Greek Government's transformation into a private state. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u13	Please beg the Deputy Minister, Thomas, to take the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u14	Thank you. I should like to repeat, because the Member probably did not understand me, that the Yannica and Veroia have joined the TEN Development Plan. A new programme was tabled this morning with these two cities integrated. Secondly, no final decision of the RAE has been taken. There was an exchange of letters on which the TENs worked together with the regional and local authorities to examine the possibility of implementing earlier - and this was done. So we are waiting - you have rightly said this - for the final decision of the RAE, for the adoption of the Development Programme. Therefore, even though the TEN has incorporated Giannitsa and Veroia into the programme - and I will come back to the next questions for the rest of Greece - it has retained the right to apply for an appeal which the Minister has and said so. Also, the networks scheduled for the new administration of the TEN, as I said, have more investments than the previous ones. They've got more miles of middle voltage that you mentioned the middle voltage ducts. From fifty - three miles of medium - voltage pipelines that had the previous programme, which had not been approved - the project was not mature until last summer - there have been a hundred forty - two kilometers of median pressure. Therefore, the prospect of developing the distribution network in the rest of Greece has increased, intensified and mainly entered - as we have committed - all the energy-intensive municipalities in western Macedonia and there will be a distribution network everywhere. That's all I have to say. On the issues you have raised for the NSRF, a lot of work has been done since September, so that the money committed by the NSRF for these projects can be prepared by the necessary procedures and authorisations so that they can actually be used. This money will be used by the TEN, whatever its ownership status, as has been done with too many other projects. The ESDP finances too many private projects. So we are constantly developing the distribution network in northern Greece and across Greece from the TEN in the specific case mentioned in the question, but also in the Attica SAR and in the Thessaloniki SAR, which I shall refer to the next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister, for you have been very time-consuming. We continue with the second with the number 664/6-5-2020 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The work of the natural gas distribution network in Tripoli must continue and be implemented as soon as possible." Mr. Constantinople has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since January 2010 I have been dealing with the issue of natural gas in the Peloponnese and Arcadia. As you know, there is already in Arcadia, Megalopoli, the gas plant, which is powered by natural gas. At that time we had all spoken that on the basis of the designs, because the pipeline passes near the Tripolis industrial area, a quantum station and a metering station was planned to supply Tripoli, as well as the industrial area. The time has passed, the years have passed, the gas is in Megalopoli, but unfortunately Tripoli, Arcadia, the Peloponnese do not. To be honest, in 2019 - and I will submit to the SYRIZA Government at that time and to Mr Haritsis and Mr Stathakis - I have the questions here - Mr Haritsis details what is financed by the ESRB. Unfortunately, there is no Peloponnese. It's with his own written answering the question. However, in order to be absolutely fair, Mr Stathakis in the same question says "without, of course, having the approval of the NRP" - the text is Mr Kokkolis - "that will go on in the Peloponnese, Tripoli, Kalamata, etc." [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, the gas network project in Tripoli, in the Peloponnese, is a network that will help the region very much. It will reduce the cost to both the businessman and the consumer. I do not understand, although I understand that you have changed your planning, while you know that the previous government had not included it in the ESRB, it is necessary for RAE to make this decision, and since the district manager tells us openly in the past few days that this will be done by private means, now you come - and thankfully, I hope you will - and you say that you will integrate it on the basis of the new design. I don't know how you're gonna join it. I personally don't understand. I would like you to assure us and we would like to see it included in the programme either of the ESDP or in other regional and central state cooperation. To be brief, I would like to ask you this. The same is true of Megalopolis. Here, Minister, the district heating has been overhauled by SYRIZA. You joined it a year ago, you and today respond to it and say 'no district heating, natural gas'. And I wonder: Have you spoken to the local community? What about the district heating? I really am telling you that this is not something that has a follow-up as a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u17	The State Secretary, Mr Thomas, please answer the question to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u18	Thank you very much. Again we find ourselves in a situation in which the TEN Development Programme for the Peloponnese, like all the TEN Development Programme that has taken place in 2018-2021, was never approved and was not properly prepared. It was a wishing list of cities, networks, funding, etc. In the case of the Peloponnese, the necessary resources from the NRP from the region were not foreseen. The new district manager has spent 20 million on this project, for which all the necessary procedures have now been launched, so that he can run this project fairly quickly. After consulting the TEN, they have accelerated these procedures on the grounds that funding from the NRP is ready by September. That is why the TEN today tabled the new RAE Development Programme, putting in Giannitsa and Veroia, could not, in order to be credible, integrate the cities of the Peloponnese, but has committed itself to revising the programme in September, based on the funding provided by the NSRF. However, the TEN has already taken the necessary steps to ensure the preparation of the project. First of all, the TEDA together with the Government and with the IPCC have prepared together a series of decommissioning structures that they need from the IPCC in order to proceed with these projects. As you quite rightly said, the NRP exit stations had not been planned to supply Tripoli, Corinth, Argos, Nafplio. They have now entered the new Operational Program of the DESFA with our own interference and the new board of directors of the DESFA. Also, the supply of the towns of Sparta and Kalamata, which will be done with tracking, which will start at the tanker loading station in Revithousa, has now entered the DESFA programme to make progress on these infrastructures so that the network can reach the Peloponnese cities as well. All this has accelerated this winter. We've worked methodically. And the region has also put 20 million, which it is trying to do in good time. By September we will see whether this is ready to enter the eighth month, which is provided for by Law 4602/2019 and that these networks are made by the TEN. It is true that according to the law passed by the previous government, works may also be carried out by individuals. Right now, in some cities there's interesting, in others there isn't. In a way, however, the commitment, which exists from the TENs and the priority preparation for the TENs, is a certain one. This has been demonstrated by the decisions made in the new development programme. There was a question of interpretation of the eighteenth month, which was created, how it is done in this eighteenth month, since it counts. In this sense, there was this exchange of letters between the RAE and the TEN, which was resolved in the best way possible, of course, given the rigour of RAE in interpreting, in a way, this eighteen-month period and the date on which it started. However, for the first time now, we have a TEN that has provided for and invested and developed much more networks and more investments and has approved the RAE. It will take immediate approval of RAE from an operational and investment programme of the TEN, which has not been approved or the necessary steps to start their implementation. Immediately with the approval of the RAE, TEN projects will be auctioned throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u19	Mr Constantinople has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, we need to clarify a few things, because you have well put them, but we have a lot of 'if'. The first is that the process that started now, in previous years, has gone away. A previous year has been lost - let us move on now - at the disposal of the Peloponnese Region to allocate EUR 20,000 000, that is to say to the regional programme on the part of the network, from what I understand or the whole of the network - I do not understand that and that is for the sake of clarity - so that it can proceed from the NSRF. This will be decided, as you said in September. Secondly, Minister, it is easy, understandable. I won't say it again for SYRIZA. SYRIZA exists. Anyone who has the question of Mr. Haritsis and Mr. Corcolis clearly sees that he had not included it in the ERASMUS. There's nothing else to do. That's something that's over. SYRIZA was voted against. We know if he's lying. But that has nothing to do with it now. Now, we're talking about the future. That's the basic thing. You didn't answer me for Megalopolis. I get it. You'll have a second. To talk about the future, I would like to tell you that the Tripoli City Council unanimously asks - I will put it before you - for natural gas to go ahead in our city so that Tripoli can be upgraded throughout this process. So, Minister, because the people of Arcadia must listen to something - I want a reassurance from you, that the Ministry, the region, on the basis of the discussions, the TENA - now the government cannot be someone else - has guaranteed at least EUR 20,000,000, which is said by the principal, from the 2014-2020 programme. I'm trying to figure out not to say things that you'll find in front of you in September. Is it your mood and commitment that in September we will go out and say: 'Yes, can we finance the gas network of Arcadia and the Peloponnese?' The pipeline's already going to Megalopolis. I think, to be very clear, that the only unjusted area today is Arcadia and the Peloponnese. Arcadia is wronged because it has the gas for the gas plant and Tripoli and the industrial zone cannot be taken. And of course, I told you about the district heating. I think the way this whole process has been done shows that there is no political plan. I hope, Minister, that you assure us without 'if' that this will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yeah, I'm clearly committed to Tripoli and Megalopolis. The Megalopolis was never in the plans, nor in the previous TENs never. It's different from Tripoli. There was Tripoli. We committed ourselves. I've been to Megalopolis myself, and we've discussed with the municipal authorities. We know that they have made a decision, which we share. It's their decision that local society should put natural gas into Megalopolis. We have done the necessary steps to open another separate gate to this issue for the gas going to Megalopolis. We've taken action with the DESA on this matter. We have also taken the necessary steps for Tripoli, so that the average gas trend for Tripoli and Corinth opens. Also, we have taken the necessary steps to open the Truck Loading in Revithousa, which will serve Kalamata and Sparta. So we're committed to Megalopolis. A decision has been taken by the Steering Committee on Abstracting, which has committed resources to assist in the introduction of natural gas and from the SDM Fund to the fair transition fund, managed by the SDM and the transitional fund that we announced would be held for 2020-2021 before the European Road Transfer Fund is activated. Therefore, especially for the Megalopolis, yes, there is a commitment. And especially for Tripoli, yes, there's a commitment. And all the other infrastructure, which lies in the state to do, will do. I think this has slowly become clear to the other bodies that are necessary to proceed with these projects, such as the CRS. Cooperation with the region has also accelerated, with which we have excellent cooperation. The result is to hear the will of local society, in these and in all other cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister, and for the very great economy of time, which we need today to get through. The first question will be discussed under number 679/11-5-2020 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Greek Chrysos SA compensation", due to its delay in complying with the terms of the investment project provided for in the contract." Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you publicly for the actions you are taking, regarding the unblocking of the excellent programme of the Municipality of Ilio for the energy pile. It is something I asked you with a timely question. You have responded to this, too. I wish we had the same result on this question. I would like Mr Hatzidakis to be here because it is a top political issue, which I know is personally handled. We are starting with the publication of the newspaper "Kathimerini", which I also present in the Minutes and which speaks about the negotiations that Mr Hatzidakis has made in person with "EL DORADO GOLD", in fact, on the change of the contract. It refers to twenty-five points asked by the government and by Mr Hatzidakis. We wonder what these points are. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We would very much like Mr Hatzidakis to be here to tell us. We call on you, if you can develop us, what the twenty-five points the Greek Government asks for. Then, in the report that I am also tabling in the Minutes at EURO2DAY, we learn that the negotiations have ceased because of the Council of State's decision, which in fact decides that the government's refusal to approve metallurgy was lawful, as it was impossible and environmentally harmful, the procedure that had been adopted following a company's proposal to environmental licensing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It makes us truly an alpine impression that the report states that the government is apologizing for the inconvenience and states that it has pushed the decentralized administration as far as it could, to give permission for drilling in the Army. The administration asked for guarantees that environmental protection could be ensured. All this, of course, has been arranged by environmental law, Article 1. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by keeping the rest of my second language, by saying only this: after the decision of the Council of State, the basic, the judiciary core of the Convention has collapsed. This is where the matter arises. In order not to damage the public, the government must demand compensation from this company, which has received so much free and has not done the basics, even though it has destroyed the environment. This compensation is a moral and legal responsibility to ask for it, and I invite you to commit to doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u25	Minister for the Environment and Energy, Thomas, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni, and for the cooperation we have had on the issue of Ilio, which I see as very important, and I am pleased with parliamentary scrutiny and all the questions that all the Members have raised, so that we can resolve matters and move forward. In this case, what is on the basis of your question is the decisions of the Council of State and what impact they may have on both the contract and the public. I would like to begin by saying that neither the decision of the Council of State, which you invoke, nor the Dietary Decision of 2018, which was adopted, do not find any infringement of the terms of the Convention. So, at the moment, we have no breach of the terms of the contract. Secondly, the decision of the Council of State has various legal, technical and financial issues. He raises a number of issues. The services of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - all the services together - are currently in a process of examining these points. So, at the moment, we cannot give a definitive answer to all the issues raised by the Council of State. Thirdly, I would like to say with regard to the compensation, which you put to your first question, that the company's obligations are being delayed, that the delay in implementing contractual obligations may give rise to compensation for the Greek State against the company. That is not the case, that is to say, the delay in claiming compensation. So on this particular point we cannot take a stand at this particular moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u27	Mr Arsenis has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u28	Minister, the Greek "Hellenic Chrysos" asks for 1.5 billion from the Greek State. I want you to tell us, will the Greek State not ask for a drachma when the legal basis has collapsed? Because that is what the decision of the Arbitration Court says, there are other articles which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, as well as the decision of the Council of State. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do these articles of Arbitration substantiate? They document that without it, that is without the metallurgy plant, the contract falls apart. The basis of this agreement, which had poorly done the public, with this company, "ELLENIC CRYSOS", was the metallurgy plant. Because, as you know very well, there is no benefit to the Greek State - and if there is, tell us - if the metallurgy process is not done. The fact that he gave false evidence in practice and committed himself to an inappropriate technology to obtain the environmental license this company has now fallen into the Council of State. And the Council of State has made it clear that it is inappropriate and improperly proposed. So all environmental licensing remains in the air. So all the company's commitments to the government remain, and so there's obviously a question. Look at it with your lawyers and you will see that the Greek Government is entitled, if it wants, to move for compensation. We checked it out with lawyers. My question is this: In this company, in which we gave a primitive forest, an area that lives from tourism, one of the most important fishing fields in Greece, the Bay of Ierissos, the main place where the most pine trees are produced in Greece, this company that took all this, which destroys it, cannot move on to this investment. He's desolating the woods. So at the moment, what are we going to do? Aren't you going to ask for compensation for the damage done? You have gone ahead, fulfilling her requests with Articles 1 and 4 of your environmentally sound bill. Are we actually going to give them other things? In exchange for what? What has the Greek State so far won by the "ELLENIKIKI FRYS" and by the procedures there? What will be won and what are the twenty-five points you ask for in the new contract? There should normally not be a new contract, there should be a restoration of the environment and the closure of this procedure with compensation for the Greek State. It goes without saying that if you do not carry out this procedure of compensation, there is damage to the Greek State. I'm sorry to say, but there are responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u30	Thank you very much. I think that you are taking the lead in matters which are not at present, whether or not there will be a review of the contract, a renegotiation of the contract. What we know at the moment is that the decision of the Council of State does not see any infringement of the terms of the Convention. The second thing we know is that there is an environmental license for "ELELENINIKI CRYSOS", which expires on 26 July 2021, has been granted and provides for the restoration of the disposal site. We also know that it is possible for this GDP to be extended if and if an amendment or renewal request is submitted by the company concerned, which has not been made. When it is done, it will be evaluated. We also know very well that there are strict conditions in this decision to approve environmental conditions. In addition to the control bodies of the State, there is another specific control mechanism in this case to monitor compliance with environmental conditions by a special committee provided for in Article D1/39 of this GDP. The Committee shall submit the annual reports drawn up by the project owner and shall communicate all the technical studies and the results of the analyses it presents to the relevant departments. Records shall be kept and the results shall be given after the necessary chemical analyses and sampling. Finally, we know in any case that the environmental authority has the right and retains the right to intervene when infringements occur. As far as compensation is concerned, at this stage - as I have said - the analysis that exists from the Ministry's services is not finalizing the decisions we have taken. At this stage we see that compensation for matters raised by the Council of State is not provided for in the Convention. We therefore move on to further analysis of the issues raised by the Council of State's decision. We will move on with GDP if and if extension permits are requested and we do everything necessary to safeguard the environment, as is foreseen by the laws of the whole world. In the meantime, there are, of course, and there are still positive benefits in the economy from the jobs created there and there are still exchange-rate benefits. There are a thousand hundred jobs there which are necessary for the know-how of the field there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u31	Thank you, too. We pass on to the next five questions to which Mr Dimitrios Economou will answer all of them. Series is the first question and application for documents under number 4657/223-2020 of the reporting cycle by SYRIZA Socrates Famelos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: ‘The operation and extension of the Collective Alternative Management System ‘Recycling S.A.’. Here, Mr. Famele, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you have just announced, this question was submitted on 3 March and it was a question together with a request for documents. As you are well aware, it is becoming timely because it has not come and neither the answer nor the documents have been filed. Therefore, my first question to the Chair, if you know, Mr President, is: How can the request for documents be met if it has not been answered? The State Secretary who is here today can answer orally on a few issues, but the documents I do not know how to receive them. I would also like to tell you that unfortunately from the twenty-one written questions we have tabled to Mr Hatzidakis, only nine of them have been answered late in all, while the ten have been converted into time, because they have not been answered in writing and both remain unanswered. And I would add that Mr Economou, whose position and portfolio he does not have responsibility for recycling, and once again he is invited to come here, I do not know why, to respond to an object that is not in his portfolio, because he has the issues of spatial planning and town planning. I, of course, will honour the parliamentary rule and ask the question. But, Mr President, these concern both the Chair, namely the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents. I do not know how to deal with it anymore, because there is a matter of honour to Parliament on the part of the Minister. As far as the issues raised by the question are concerned, however, I have to say that it concerns recycling, as the government despite the opposite statements, in substance annuls a major reform of the SYRIZA Government, which was also in the context of European policies and concerns a great reform of recycling. The policy of incentives and counter-incentives for recycling, for source sorting, does not apply. In addition to one of the two systems of packaging, the system of counter-recycling is derived from various publications that the Minister wants to answer, since he has come today, if there are serious problems with the publications of Inside Story and the Dawn, because there is no timely non-implementation of the recycling targets, there are problems with the data provided, there are inaccurate data on the quantities of waste, poor application of the basic collection method, divergences from the commitment to the pan-Hellenic scope, reservations as to whether the targets are feasible, unclear as to how the commitment is to be achieved and no eco-design criteria have been obtained. In addition, as far as they say, Mr President, the publications according to the services' suggestions are concerned, there is a violent interruption of meetings of the Board of Governors of the Recycling Agency that assessed this system. There are statements by the Recycling Agency, if I’m not mistaken, of June 2019, that some do not want to assess this system, that it is done as far as possible to stop the discussion and evaluation of the system and its plan and, of course, that there is a loss of resources collected by society for alternative packaging management and no place in recycling, because this is a second big issue. Does the question arise as to whether all the things that have been made public about the major deficiencies and the serious problems affecting the substance of recycling in Greece are true? Why has it not been a long-standing meeting of the Board of Directors of the EEAN, which had taken place in an absolutely inappropriate manner and with police forces, but paradoxically, because there was no complaint at all? Why is it that the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, does not evaluate this system to answer us or tell us whether these complaints and shortcomings apply and whether there is indeed a loss of social and public resources for recycling and our country stays behind and because of these delays? I shall continue in the second part because I consumed the first minute, Minister, to explain to you the great problem with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u34	I'm afraid I'm going to use the dentistry to finish up, but I'm going to start answering, as Mr. Famelos has not finished the question. I shall begin with the request for documents. Three documents, don't you ask to be filed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u35	They're three groups of documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u36	Three points refer to several documents. You're right. They have not been filed, but they will be filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u37	Not today. As far as I understand it, they'll be submitted by service. They will be sent in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u38	Yes, it is. I now have a document from the EEAN. I'll testify to that now. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, let us go to the issue of delaying decision by the EEAN, from what I see here in the data we have been given, the first request to the EEAN to approve the operational plan of return recycling was submitted on 14-5-2018. Since then until the 2019 elections, 14 months have passed and throughout this period the EEAN has not responded. So if there's a delay today, the previous delay was multiple. A first point is that. So talking about delay really is abusive. Now, during the current government of Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the new Board of Directors of the EEAN took office on 4-11-2019 in November. Since then ten administrative boards have been approved, three renewals of operational plans, one amendment, another amendment and four decisions have been made with observations on final approval of operational projects. In other words, it is not the body that sits, it is just the body that has a lot of workload to regulate. He is subordinate, as you know, and he does what he can in a coronary period to respond to the issues that are raised. So the delay, if there is a delay over the days of the current government, is much smaller than the previous one, even though the circumstances are much more unfavourable. From there on, the EEAN will proceed very quickly in the evaluation of this operational plan. That's my prology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister, Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u40	Mr President, I would remind the Secretary-General that one part of the question is whether everything that has been published concerning the failure to achieve objectives, the omissions of the system, the poor application of recycling methods and the loss of substantial resources from our recycling society. That's the essential thing. I would first of all like to see an answer to that. The second is that the Minister should know that the Greek Recycling Agency has often returned the operational plan to the system to amend it and that is why the delay. They should have given you all the chronological order, Lieutenant. And finally, two boards of directors were cancelled in incompatibilities. I would say that they were irregular and you know that because they have been made public, and I mentioned the reason why the two boards were cancelled, because some wanted to hide something about recycling, waiting for the elections. That is why Parliament is entitled to ask: is there a change of attitude on the part of the government on the formal obligations of recycling systems? What the agency introduced to the board, why did what I read to you are service contributions, do they apply or not? Will they change in political terms? The late Council approved a system. You said that the Board of Recycling was not quickly placed, but entered November rather. It was therefore delayed four, five months. Why did it adopt a system whose recommendation was retrospectively submitted, after the Anti-performing, rather than the Anti-performing, which was its turn? Why, then, was the system of the Hellenic Recycling Certification Company approved and not the Anti-Efficiency that had all that was found? However, there are also other issues and practically the question arises now: 'It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to recycle or not', because, after the new government took over, we see that while there is an unfinishedness of the EEAN, because you said that it does not have much work or because it has been delayed in putting it in place, the Ministry of the Interior is announcing a pilot project with forty-five Anti-false Recycling Centres in five municipalities. The question is whether this initiative by the Ministry of Interior is within the operational framework of the system. Does the Ministry of Interior announce initiatives corresponding to the Ministry of the Environment, without the Ministry of the Environment knowing and without the operational plan of the system? Then we see that you are coming with a law and you are ex post licensing these facilities, even though we have pointed you out in the House that there is no definition in the law of what it is that you have exempted from building permits. And you know as a teacher that this determination is required. And we see, Mr President, in addition to the initiatives of the Ministry of the Interior that go beyond the Ministry of the Environment and in breach of competence, it goes on to say that you are absent from all these discussions of the Ministry of the Environment - and from 21-1-2020 of the Executive Committee of the Single Association of Athens, which says that it is installed in ten thousand areas of equipment in this system, of which, Minister, is pending the authorisation, and there are serious complaints. But, while pending, other equipment is being licensed and advanced by Mr Patoulis in Attica, without any one determining whether it is within the project or not. So, Mr. Undersecretary, the question is now becoming more difficult. All the things that are evolving while the system is not licensed are included in its design? Do they correspond to the same negative criticism that the agency had made for the system? And why doesn't the Ministry of the Environment resolve this gordium? And why it is absent from the initiatives it is taking with the islands, but also with the five pilot municipalities of the Ministry of the Interior, since it is aware that, with the establishment of the new Government, the General Secretariat for Waste has come to the Ministry of the Environment, so there is no responsibility left in the Ministry of Interior. The question, therefore, is, Mr Secretary, whether the Mitsotakis Government will do something to help with recycling, because so far there have been only delays and strange approvals, without system certification and control. We are also concerned about the substance of this matter for our country. I'm sorry, but time doesn't allow me to expand. I am presenting for the Minutes the document I mentioned to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The rest is written in the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u41	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u42	Thank you. You insist there is a delay. I would remind you that the last operational plan of recycling to the EEAN was submitted on 26 March. By June it's been months. The fact that within this period there has been no move until the elections have arrived to move on is obviously a delay, since an eight-month period has already elapsed. So there is no question that there has been a delay before. Secondly, until November 2019, the previous administration of the EEAN continued. She was the same. Why didn't he do anything then? He hadn't been appointed by the Mitsotakis government. He was appointed in a previous phase. So she continued to inactivate. In relation to what you refer to and to the question about the holidays of meetings, you may be right, but it is not something that the Ministry of the Environment may be placed. If the meetings were interrupted, the EEW is the responsible body to deal with this issue, in any way provided for by existing legislation. So there is no question of delay. If there is one delay now, there have been five before. With regard to your third question, what are the individual assessment and compliance elements of the TEN body, i.e. recycling, it is the responsibility of the EEAS rather than the Ministry of the Environment? So you can learn from the documents we are going to submit. With regard to the fourth and fifth questions concerning the operational plan to which the Ministry of Interior pilot project is progressing, this is what you need to know from the Ministry of Interior. I don't know if you had submitted the application to the Home Office. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. On the sixth question, however, as to whether it is in the knowledge of the Ministry of the Environment that the evaluation of the pilot program of return recycling recorded according to statements by the Minister of the Interior by an independent scientific group, I can answer you that the specifics you ask are not in the knowledge of the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the second with number 4994/17-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Increases in water and sewerage tariffs from the increase in PPC tariffs'. Here, Mr. Famele, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Again, the framework is the same. The government's not answering the question. Here comes the State Secretary who does not have responsibility. Mr Hatzidakis is absent and Mr Thomas, who partly has the subject of energy and could help us, has not been charged with this question. There are serious problems, as it turns out, in the final state to understand what perfection means and Members and citizens remain without answers. Of course, here I have to say that I promised the Secretary-General that I would table documents on how it affects the cost of watering citizens and how citizens and municipalities can meet the obligations and problems created by Mr Mitsotakis' government. So on 17 March we asked a question about how important an impact on water tariffs has on the unjustified and unfair increase in energy made by Mr Hatzidakis in PPC on 1 September. In fact, I have to say that at that time the effects of pandemic - or at least it was not the picture we have today - were not yet a double timely question, because - firstly - there are obviously no increases in water tariffs and, secondly - because, at the time when we asked society to stay home in order to protect itself, you understand how painful it will be for society, for vulnerable social groups or for entrepreneurs to cut water or to increase water. There are therefore two problems. One is whether the government has a responsibility because it has increased the cost of energy and the municipalities cannot respond to and increase the water tariffs, and the other is whether it will do at least something now that pandemic is in front and we have the crisis that can come, because the government is unable to understand or does not want to take measures to resolve the issue of the economic crisis. So we submit a day's decision by the Board of Directors of the JHA Board of Directors, the Mitsotakis Municipal Bank, which says: 'Since energy costs are 44% of the annual cost, and since I have an increase in energy costs of 18.7% with the choice of Mitsotakis Government, I have to increase the water tariffs and my revenues 17%'. So, Mr President, the citizens and businessmen in the region will have to pay this year 17% more water - and, obviously, waste water - to cover a half-cost increase in energy, that is, Mr Hatzidakis's decision. So there is a question of how this will be done not only socially and economically acceptable, but how it will be because it goes beyond the ceiling on increases in water tariffs established by ministerial decision and the institutions and the European directive 2060 imposed on Greece. In other words, we have reformed, that is, the cost of water will arise on the basis of a cost analysis, without great increases, at ecological and social tariffs, and now a reform of the SYRIZA government is coming, with the approval of European institutions, clearly environmentally and socially beneficial, for the Mitsotakis Government to abolish it, because it increases so much the cost of energy being forced by municipalities or for water companies to close down or increase a cost of 17.7% for citizens. That's the question. How this will be done in breach of ministerial decision and legislation, which Europe has told us we must take. So this reform is abolished, Mr. Economou? I give you the above-mentioned document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u46	As far as the first question is concerned, you are aware that the mechanism for monitoring and monitoring water services uses a computer system, which is updated annually by electronic data on its activity. The data for the previous year shall be reported within the last six months of each current year. These are used by the Departments of Water for Decentralised Administrations to draw up annual reports and continue the entire process of controlling these issues. Based on the above, the monitoring mechanism has been introduced by the data providers for the years 2017 and 2018. The data for 2019 will be entered in the last half of 2020. When they are introduced - this legislation is not the Mitsotakis Government, it is from the previous period - these elements and when the JHA Thermi Introduces the figures for 2019 - for 2018 they were submitted very recently, two weeks ago - they will obviously be registered in the system and from there on the normal procedure will follow. For now, we cannot assess what we do not have. However, I am here - and I shall put it in the Minutes so that I do not get you into any more trouble now - compared to the cost of electricity, for the current charge. I'll put it in the Minutes so you can process it. After the introduction of the elements of the JHA Thermi for 2019, which have not yet been done, as I told you, these elements will be evaluated, exploited by the Water Directorate of the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Water in the context of the preparation of the relevant report and then the Water Directorate will issue relevant recommendations for the compliance of the provider, asking the provider to take appropriate corrective action. That can do. He can't now order the provider to do anything else. It moves within the framework of its competences under the legislation, which is in place beforehand, it is nothing new. As regards the second question, I referred to the operational and financial figures of 2019, when there were changes in PPC's pricing policy and in the case of the area of Thermi, therefore covered by the JHA Thermi, as well as for the whole country. These will be registered in the second half as I said. Therefore, we do not know at the moment whether there are corresponding growth decisions and other relevant services with the JHA. We do not know yet why they have not been tabled. So what you're asking is it's not possible to answer right now. When we have the evidence, we'll be able to answer it. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u48	Mr President, I have pointed out from the outset that there is a mismatch. The Minister does not have this portfolio, he does not know the subject, he is not given the evidence, but we must do parliamentary control. A government cannot say that it has a green Prime Minister to say that it does not know what is going on with the water tariffs or what it does with recycling the Ministry of Interior, when the whole responsibility is in the Ministry of the Environment. They are unacceptable and I must say them publicly, because, Minister, you say that you do not know them, but we thought wisely and in December 2019 we asked you a question about water pricing anyway. This is not the first time we have done so, Mr President. We warned: Notice whether the municipalities are sending and whether the rule of eco-invoicing, social invoice and database is actually being respected. But what did the government do, Mr President? He abolished the Special Secretariat for Water, dismantled the databases, stopped the control of the municipalities and stopped the reform in water as well as in recycling. In practice, what the government is doing is closing down the Ministry of the Environment. And you do not know, Mr Secretary, while we asked you a question from December to inform you, what will you answer a question that was asked in March and which you did not answer? Mr. Undersecretary, I'm sorry, what are we gonna do? Are we going to replace you at all? You can call an election, we can replace you if you can't run the Ministry of the Environment. But it's strange to tell me that you don't know when we gave you documents showing that the cost of water is increasing and you say "we don't know it because we expect the municipality to inform us in the next six months". But is that possible? Aren't you going to do anything to support society? I say to you that there are municipalities that are unable to cover the costs and I come officially and say to you: The association of the JHA, Mr President, all the JHA in Greece have submitted documentaries saying that they have an increase of 20%. The JHA Union now. Second, given that I'm presenting you. So for all of Greece with this big problem of increasing energy costs and thus of water and sewerage costs will not do anything about government? I must tell you that today PPC is selling more than twice the cost of producing energy, because it has made unfair increases and now the price of raw materials has fallen too much. Wouldn't the government do anything about it? So we will be selling energy more than twice the cost, Mr President, but will we not help water supply and sewerage when the JHA Union tells us that the cost of pumping from EUR 750,000 in 2010 went to EUR 3.5 million today - the JHA association says so - knowing that from 2015 to 2019 there was no increase in the cost of energy but a reduction? So the governments of the New Democracy, before and after, are destroying and halving the energy costs for the municipalities, for the water companies, the basic asset that is water, and therefore cannot afford to be able to cope with large, major services, because it is faced with a sluggishness which cannot be solved by eighteen months on the part of the municipalities. You don't know what's going on with water costs, you don't have any data. The second question, Mr. Undersecretary, is: Will you do something to help the JHA? And since I understand that you do not know enough things that are going on at the Ministry, Mr President, I would like to say that I am tabling two very important documents - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment in the Minutes and I would ask the Minister to give them to Mr Hatzidakis. Those documents shall be in May 2019. You'll tell me now: What do you say, Mr. Famele? These documents show that at the end of May 2019 the Ministry of Finance approved 282,000 euros, Mr Economou, to give the protection bodies of protected areas you left from July without one euro. And we are proving today by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group that with a plan Mr Hatzidakis has set a loop on the institutions of protected areas, while the finances from the Ministry of Finance had been approved. I am tabling the documents of the Ministry of the Environment and the approval of the budget by the Ministry of Finance, the General Accounting Office of the State, because it is unacceptable to close agencies and at the same time to lie, because the eight new bodies also had approved funding. I'm tabling a list of payments for these bodies. It's out of the question, but since you don't know much about the Ministry of the Environment, we'll let you know about some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u50	I'll answer the outside first. In other words, Mr Famele, you are telling us that you have given up for four, five years, the management bodies in their destiny and the last moment before the elections, you have approved a small amount of aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u51	Those bodies were established in 2018. You should find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u52	You hadn't promoted them. The fact that you made the decision in 2018 what does it mean? That you've reached the agencies? The institutions were still neglected in their fate. This has also been demonstrated in the parliamentary process of discussing the environmental bill and remains a reality. Since you have taken the initiative to speak outside the question, I have also had to answer it. Don't ask for the change for the management bodies. They've been left alone in their fate for years. I'm coming back to the question. Look, there's a nucleus in what you're saying. The issue of increasing PPC tariffs. Any increase in PPC's tariffs was due to the dismantling of PPC during the period of SYRIZA government. When the new government took over, PPC was on the verge of bankruptcy. I think that every reasonable person who listens understands what PPC would have gone bankrupt and any increase in costs could have been the least that could have been done to address the years of negligence of the previous government to restore a smooth operation of PPC. So you left it on the brink of bankruptcy - it is well known, I do not say it, it is well known - and now you tell us why there have been some increases in invoices. It really is completely contradictory. What can I say? Invoices were made - the least possible - because PPC had been led to bankruptcy by the previous government. All secondary consequences to services or other activities based on electricity consumption start with this basic negligence - to say so - of your Government. I don't understand what you said. In any case, you said that we did not know at the Ministry what was going on with the water data. I didn't say that. I said what exists beforehand, from the previous government, that each such body is filing the data for the previous year in the next year. So in 2019 - because this is what we are talking about - there have been increases and, therefore, the assessment of whether these increases were justified or not will be done, when both Thermi and the other bodies are tabling the figures. How else do we do it? Smell our fingers? Have you anticipated these timetables and now you tell us why we do not know what happened in 2019, when with your own legislation taxes have not submitted them yet? Really, it's incomprehensible. I don't know what else to tell you. If you thought that was unsatisfactory, you should've changed it back then, so we'd have evidence to answer. It has nothing to do with the lack of data with the Special Water Agency. No relationship. The reason is, as I have repeatedly said, that today's legislation provides for this Timing. With this timetable, we are also moving forward. How will we have evidence of something that we have not been given to? And they haven't legally given it to us, because that's how you legislated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. The next three topical questions have been asked by the same Member, Mr Arsenis, and by the same Minister, Mr Economou, and because the time is already pressing, I would like to ask both the Member and the Minister as far as the accuracy of time is concerned, at the very least, I would like to say to the economy of time, right? Thank you very much. We move to the third under number 677/11-5-2020 on the first question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New Area for Health Fiscal Wastes (CHITs) in the Gender area". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, we have discussed the issue of the HYTA Race and the impact on western Athens too many times and we are not just the ones talking about it. I will not forget Mr. Mitsotakis visiting the Race and saying Athens lives on a time bomb. I won't forget Mrs. Durou, the first thing she's doing with the time she's elected is go to the Tribe and say that HYTA is going to close. Now, hand-hand, you perpetuate it forever. Because that's what we're experiencing. Decisions by Mrs Durou at the end of her term of office have been initiated, you continue reverentially, with the support of Mrs Durou on the regional council. Now we have a new contest, which is theoretically for forty months. But because the devil is hiding in detail, we read the specifications in detail and there is the right to unilateral expansion for another two years, five years in total operation of the new HYTAD. As far as the previous period is concerned, in the middle of a quarantine, you once again went through 'freezing' in the Race, with a terrible impact on the health and safety of workers. I would remind you that you yourself have answered a timely question that you will immediately proceed to a review of national and regional waste management plans, not just for the non-expansion, but for the relocation of the old HYTA. These are your statements: 'Protecting the term 'Agaleo' and updating the Presidential Decree on the Conditions'. It's your statements. My question is: Five months later where is the government on these matters? I will repeat that, Mr President, because the State Secretary has not listened well. You were committed on 23 January to a review of national and regional waste planning and management, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u55	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u56	Also, Minister, once again in my timely question, when you also discovered after my complaint, amazed that if it is possible for the Greek Atomic Energy Commission to do research at the place since 2004, in a place that has been denounced, there is a mafia of waste, there have been a thousand millions of complaints about radioactive waste, you said that you yourself are committed to this check. I would like you to let us know what has been done with this check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u57	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, if I have understood correctly, have you said that you have changed the legislation on the protection of the term 'Aigelo' - I have not listened well - or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u59	I said two things, Minister. One is that this contract signed by Mrs Durou and continuing and opening on 20th of the month is for five years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u60	For the other, for the Age.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u61	Then I reminded you of your commitments. Three commitments you made in my timely question on 23 January: Revision of national and regional waste management plans, measures not only for the non-expansion of the old CYTA, and protection of the term Agaleo by updating the presidential decree on the term. I would like to know these three what happened after almost five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u62	Good. Let me begin with the last one, which I remember more recently, although it has nothing to do with your written question. We have ensured from the Green Fund the amount necessary for the amendment. I would remind you that in Mount Aigaleo this is not a presidential protection order. It was done by law, by law, by Law 2742. We will, however, start a study that will now be called for the modification of the provisions governing the term Aegleo. It should normally be with a presidential decree and that is how it will be done. So that's what's going on. You know he's got some procedures. If it wasn't the case of the coronary, we'd have already published it. But we'll publish it very soon. I can't tell you anything else, but I hope I can cover for you. We have taken the necessary steps, however, because we have also prepared the notice and guaranteed funding. It's gonna take from now on about two years, I guess, to finish this whole process. To go to the Gender Cyber, which is the main issue, what's the core of the matter? Because, indeed, I have answered many questions about this. The core of the subject is this. There is a time bomb, as you said - you have not only said it, but the Prime Minister and Mr Hatzidakis have said it - and all reasonable people know it. It's a time bomb in Attica, with the difference that, in order to secure this bomb, you need to find out what you're going to do with the garbage, where else you're going to get it. And to go someplace, it's not something you can do, press a switch and do. It takes new facilities, the establishment and creation of which are time-consuming, and it takes years. The indictment of the current government, because within less than a year it was unable to close the Ghost HYTA is unreasonable. How can he shut him down if there's no preconditions? But the government has begun to create the conditions - and it has been mentioned several times - so that in the next three years there have been alternatives which will allow the closure of the Gender. As for what I said in another reply, what is going to happen in the Gender in this transitional period will be within the current approved limits. That's what I said at the time, and I think you're writing it in your question. That's true. In other words, the process currently under way concerns construction and activities within the already approved limits. It's nothing else. It doesn't come out of the approved limits. What I told you is true. From there on, I'll answer the rest to dentistry better. Clearly, however, I say that what is being done is within the already approved limits. I can give you the evidence supporting this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u63	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u64	Minister, you have not answered the Greek Committee on Atomic Energy, for your commitment to control. Why are we bringing the matter? You say it will be within the existing limits. And yet, the contest opens on the 20th day of the month, in a few days' time, asks the contractor to propose and move on to where this new CYTA will become for five years. This provides, it has never happened before, there is no competition that says to the contractor: "Find out what we are going to do." It's impressive. The reason is rather what the movements say is that it will take place in 'zone C', in the protected area in practice. The other spectacular point is that we have been talking about and I shall be tabling it in the Minutes, about a GDP which has been expanding in thousands of ways for seventeen years. The Gender HYTA has an environmental license of seventeen years and continues to accept the millions of tons of garbage each year with the same environmental study for seventeen years. Even with your photographic provisions and your environmentally sound bill, such an activity should not be extended for seventeen years with all these modification procedures, without any opinions, without passing through the approval of the relevant services and all the steps provided for in the law and European legislation. So we are asking for an end to the tender and for an impact study to be taken into public consultation, which is self-evident and lawful in European law. And obviously we ask you to withdraw, to abolish Article 4 and so on, any articles in the environmental bill. It takes a serious management of the Gender HYTA if we mean it's a time bomb and if we mean it's our concern. The inhabitants of western Athens are concerned because they have no escape. The "We stay Home" that was the case for all of us, meant "We live right over there when you breathe the Globe HIT". This makes a difference for some people and a difference in action. And these people will be on their way if you don't act.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u65	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u66	For the competition. The competition has started since the previous period, i.e. from the previous administration of the region, as you know and is evolving in the current period. We didn't start it. From there, however, we cannot stop it at the moment when there is no alternative to the Race, we are necessarily moving on to a competition that had begun since the SYRIZA period, from Mrs Dourou's time to be more precise. What you say is unprecedented to ask the contractor to propose a position, for the HYTA or for anything else, is not at all unprecedented. As a rule, when you assign a spatial study, you ask the contractor to propose suitable positions. This does not mean that the contraaor has the right to propose anything that he smokes, he must be in a position which obeys the existing legislation. So things that are forbidden cannot be proposed or even proposed, will not be done. So it will propose these or, at any rate, it will be what is lawful. As I said before, what we committed is still valid: there will be no extensions beyond today - the time when I replied, in February, in March - to an approved area of HYTAF. From that moment on, the Ministry hasn't given up. And the Ministry and the region are very quickly moving forward that the National Waste Management Plan will be updated in less than a year from the start of governance. It's not happening right now. He's forced to take some time. Based on this, the regional waste management plan from the region needs to be reformed. And then the procedures that can be followed by law must be followed. We cannot speed them up beyond a certain point. These are the procedures, these are the ones we have to keep. As far as the environmental study is concerned, the same applies when, at the moment, we cannot close HYTATA, the HYTA will continue to work until an alternative is found. No matter how many times you ask that, I'll answer you. There must be an alternative. We've started it. We can't do it in one, not five months, not one-and-a-half year. In the intervening period, therefore, we will proceed with what we have. There's no other way. Imagine what it would mean to close the HYTA? What would happen to Attica then? What would happen to the four and a half million people in Attica, without a chance to dismantle the garbage somewhere? Obviously, the current situation is extremely unpleasant, no one has doubted it, on several occasions, and the government has put it, but there is no magical way to resolve this issue. The issue has not only been solved, it has gone back for five years and we will have had to resolve it in three years, there is nothing else to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u67	We continue with our second question under number 681/11-5-2020, by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Illegal work at the port of Piraeus by COSCO" - PPA (Piraeus Port Authority) and disposal of hazardous substances in the ecosystem in Saronicos". Mr. Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I really see Mr. Economou's agonizing attempt to justify unjustified work. I would really like to see what you're going to answer to that. Amid quarantine illegal works started at the port of Piraeus. The political leadership of the ministries and the relevant government ministries was found at the inauguration of the work. Unprecedented! Inauguration of illegal activities with the government to celebrate, to participate in the opening, to the celebrations. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In the face of all this, local government and the region and the Municipality of Piraeus, the Citizens' Counselor, citizens' movements and environmental organisations have been found. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Now, the environmental impact study is under consideration. The master plan, which has been approved by the Port Development Committee, but its impact will be examined in the strategic environmental impact study, which is undergoing and has not yet been completed. In other words, we have a huge task, that of extending the port of Piraeus, which is done with huge environmental impacts, which is done without the fundamental respect of European environmental legislation, or of Greek legislation. Just justify that, too, Minister. Tell us. I really want to hear your excuse. Mr. Hatzidakis has criminal responsibilities for this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the sinks are really against any study and decision, at this time you will be throwing them without inactivation, without any treatment in Saronicos, against bath beaches. I really want to hear how you're gonna justify this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u70	Look, if anyone were to hear your question, he would rightly be angry listening to the question, except that it contains inaccuracies. If the government went to the opening of a project that is illegal of course, everyone would be angry. It would not be unprecedented, too many works have been inaugurated illegally, but the reason for indignation would be. This work, however, is not illegal, has been environmentally licensed since 2011 precisely, the southern expansion of the port of Piraeus. Since 2011 there has been environmental approval, which was even renewed in 2018 at the request of the PPA to modify geometric characteristics. We have a 2011 decision. It has been renewed again in 2018 by the SYRIZA government. I'm not saying it was badly renewed, of course. I'm just mentioning it. And from there on, the work that is now being done is the ones provided for by environmental approval. There's no illegality. If they are rejected, if I have heard you correctly, some waste without control, that is why we want some evidence. You're just saying that. I do not question your words, but it is not enough. You need to provide us with some evidence and there are procedures through which this can be checked and penalised. But I didn't see evidence. I just saw an oral confirmation of yours. I'm not questioning it, but it's not enough. The work itself, I repeat, is legally environmentally licensed and what is being done is what has been licensed. I shall then reply to the next part of Mr Arseni's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u71	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u72	Minister, there are surely inaccurate. Unfortunately, I'm not the one saying the inaccurate. In 2011 there is indeed something that happened. It is the extension of the existing GDP, which expired in July 2018. Now I won't tell you my words. Don't tell me I'm inaccurate. I will tell you the answer to the written question that Mrs Nika gave me on behalf of your Ministry of Finance. And what I read to you, which you said was inaccurate, was for word what Mrs Nika said in writing and posted on the website of the House: "The study is under assessment in our service and is about to be transmitted for consultation with the public and for the collection of opinions from the relevant bodies. As regards all the projects of the Piraeus port master plan, approved by the Port Planning and Development Committee, their broader impact will be examined in the strategic environmental impact study, which is undergoing and will be submitted after completion of our service.". Mrs. Nika's words are the words. They're not mine. These are measures which have not been implemented and which are progressing without authorisation. A environmental prosecutor should literally intervene. The reason why he doesn't do it is because the first person to be arrested is the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u74	Thank you. Look, I will repeat that the projects now being done have been environmentally approved since 2011 and after 2018, are approved. Based on this environmental authorisation, the projects are made and in 2018 the new geometric characteristics were approved. The new environmental impact study submitted is another thing. It's for the next few years. The study, which by definition should record all the projects that are now in operation - that is, the reality, the imprinting of the existing situation - is again mentioned in southern expansion as a real fact, which will then be assessed. It is the framework that will be assessed below. It does not mean that it has not been approved. It has been approved in advance, it is now being constructed in the new environmental study, which is now under evaluation, and this is one of the elements together with dozens of others that will be taken for this assessment and the definition of new environmental conditions. I don't understand the confusion. It seems very simple to me. Previously, you said something. Did you start with something outside of the question? No, I've confused you with Mr. Famell, I'm sorry. I'm rescinding then. I would like to present a technical report in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third with number 682/11-5-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Protection of Acropolis from Oversized Hotels". You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, recently Mr. Hatzidakis, with his Facebook post, celebrated the reduction of building heights around the Acropolis. To be honest, your intention was to increase the amount and you were forced to reduce the amount, that is, to maintain the legal amount, because of the decision of the Council of State. It was your contractual obligation to comply with the terms of the Council of State. You couldn't do anything else. The point is, however, that it is not just heights but also uses of land. In the area of Makrigiannis we have a building coefficient of 3.6 on Misaraliotos street, which is characterized by the GSP of Athens as part of the town centre. If land does not enter the new decree, then quite simply will be able to build five and a half thousand square meters and three hundred beds in an area that has always been a residential area and has been suffering in recent years from the enormous pressures of tourist use. The decision of the Council of State is not just about heights. It says that the heights, rates and uses of land should be jointly addressed in the upcoming presidential decree. We invite you to commit to dealing with them together with all three, and to levels and factors of construction and land use, which over there, if you want, is the huge problem we fear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u78	Thank you. I see that your question has a hypothesis, if the Minister is committed to reintroducing the allowed level of buildings to seventeen and a half metres or less. The allowable height of the buildings, before what we are now preparing for the presidential decree of twenty-one metres, was not seventeen and a half metres. Seventeen-and-a-half meters were the limit and for buildings with a higher height of construction work was suspended. And it expressly refers to the decision of the Council of State on what grounds. It was a perfectly safe height, because it corresponds to the areas near the Acropolis that have the highest degree of protection. The Council of State does not say that this must be the final. On the contrary, it says that this was absolutely safe height, because whatever comes will be higher. So one of today's owners is not affected by the argument that we do not allow him what is definitely allowed. That's what he says. It also specifically refers to the decision of the Council of State and I shall read it to you. What is the reason for the Council of State? The main issue is heights. That's where the story started. I shall refer to land uses, but it is another matter. The suspension came on account of the issue that arose with the heights of both the hotel and the license for the other one not yet built. So we had to do something about it very quickly, since there was a suspension. What is the view of the Council of State in the last decision? It says that where we have specific decrees, such as those in force in the area and general arrangements such as those provided for by the NOK, the special decrees prevail. That's what he says. The special decree, however, does not provide for seventeen and a half measures there, provides for twenty-one measures. That is precisely what the Council of State says, that the special provisions of Royal Decree 55 lay down for the area of the property at issue, because they relate to that area, up to a maximum of twenty-one metres, not seventeen and seventeen-and-a-half metres. That's what we do. Approximately 20 feet [20 m] [20 m] across. I do not understand how you invoke a decision of the Council of State, which says exactly what we have put in. It's still not just that. It says that this is the case today, because we have a special decree which takes precedence over the general provisions of the NOK. I'm not saying he can't come up with another special decree that puts something else. Obviously by the special decree that we now bring, we could put twenty-four metres in. It would be legal. It does not question the Council of State, it does not set you an appropriate height. After all, this is a technical crisis. The Council of State does not make technical crises. How's he gonna do it anyway? What he says is that, based on the current data to date, before the new decree, the old one, which says twenty-one meters, applies. So we bring a new decree. We could put twenty-four meters or twenty-seven and still hold twenty-one meters. What's simpler? I can't understand your objection. For the rest, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u79	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u80	Minister, we understand that you have been surprised by the decision of the Council of State. It was a shock, as the general sense in society is that you want to bring higher heights. I'm glad you're rejecting it. You can tell us that you, too, would bring about 20 measures if the Council of State did not take a decision. That's about what you told us, but that's the feeling. In any case, I would like you to be clear about the uses of land, because the decision of the Council of State includes provisions for land use, as I have read you about the coefficients. They're critical, because otherwise we'll see in this area again a huge five-and-a-half thousand acres and three hundred beds. So I would like you to be clear that all this will be respected. First of all, tell us what the President-in-Office is planning to have, because there is - if you like - an austerity in the statements so far. Only in heights. Will you put in the building coefficients? Will you put in the uses of land? It will stop the alteration of this area, of such an important place around the global monument of culture, a chapter of the world civilization, which is the Acropolis, through the pressures that we have seen coming out of your environmental plan for major hotels in the center of Athens. Tell us what you intend to do, because they expect you to be heard by all the residents of the centre, all the residents of Greece, because this is the point where the heart of the history of Greece is beating. It's a point that I think touches everyone. That's what we're talking about and we want you to be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u82	I repeat that the issue has started on heights. The decisions of the Council of State refer to heights. The decisions of the Council of State, that is, both 705 and 706, do not say anywhere that it cannot be imposed by means of a special decree higher than those provided for in today's special decree. Today, 20 measures are also planned by the Council of State, if one reads them, it appears that the new special decree could provide for something more, more. That's what the Council of State says. The fact that we finally decided to put twenty-one meters is a completely different story. You mentioned intentions and other things. I don't know how you know our intentions, but what we're doing is perfectly legitimate, and if we did something else, it'd still be perfectly legal. However, what we do, in any case, is the lowest level that we have achieved to date. In what sense do you give up on us? From there on, the issue of land use and other issues is another story. Land uses to define an area cannot be defined as it smokes them. It takes a study that lasts years. The heights can be defined. It is a very specific urban size, which can draw conclusions with some technical report. The use of land is something different. Nor can you isolate the southern Acropolis region from all over Athens to define only land uses in this area. Land uses have a consistency of the overall municipality, municipality, municipality and in the case of continuous residential tissues in an inter-universal zone. So you can't suddenly go because 'it came to you' without an appropriate study, which should cover the whole region and change uses of land. Other heights, other land uses. What we have said and said - and I say it again - is that with the local town plan of the Municipality of Athens, which despite the financing problems created by the previous government, which were finally solved and started, I hope they will be launched at the end of August, together with some two hundred local town plans. The issue of land use will be dealt with by the local urban plan. We can't just make a change to the Makrigiannis without having the overall picture. So, for example, I think that we are fully within the rights and decisions of the Council of State, in the narrower sense of the term, that is to say. Land uses and other issues, the traffic network, etc., require an overall study. It would be contempt for us to go locally just to change the uses of land. Land uses have an overall balance. You need to connect them to the other areas. This will be done with the local town plan. That takes his time. You keep abdicating us, because we don't have a button that we press and all things done right away. Because in Greece there are procedures, there are constitutions, there are laws that you can't do anything you can to smoke, necessarily. Where there is a possibility of moving quickly into some energy, as in height, we did. There is no time for the government to take over and take over the matter without any preparation. The question of land use, we have said on several occasions, will be dealt with in the normal way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 32/5/11-2019 by President Fotini (Photo) and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will be debated. Konstantinos Scandalidis, George Arvanitides, Ahmet Ilhan, Constantina (Nandi) Giannapoulou, Christos Gogas, George Kaminis, Charalambos Kastanides, Michael Katrinis, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Charula (Hara) Kefalidou, Odyssey Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Evangelia Liikalis, George Mulkiotis, Baran Bourhan, Dimitrios Biagis, Apostolos Panas, Andreas Pulas, George Francis, Andreas Loverdes and George Papandreou to the Minister of Finance with the topic: "The government of N.D. The same policy of SYRIZA, maintaining the mortgage on the Public Property in the Transit and the commitments it has made to lenders or will renegotiate the terms and conditions of its exploitation, as proposed by the Change Movement." This question was originally scheduled by the Conference of Presidents to be discussed on 20 March, but was postponed because of the protection measures taken by the pandemic. He has the floor for the first time a member of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u85	I think the question and the debate it raises is quite timely. I would say that her political weight is very important. Although I consider your presence - which I appreciate - respected and substantial, Minister, I believe that the presence of the Minister of Finance - rather than going to the TVs, but coming to Parliament to discuss such a big issue - would also give the political authority required, the political authority that the government should give to this process, a question signed by the President of the Change Movement and all the Members of the Change Movement. Despite the delay of so many months, the conditions for bringing the issue back to the fore are extremely favourable. A pandemic encourages the renegotiation of terms and conditions, as was done with the excesses, which you unfortunately did not claim, but were the result of the pandemic. It favours the possibility of reorientating the resources available, which you have also not claimed, but came as a result of the pandemic. Like the impression that we, as a people and as a country, have effectively dealt with the pandemic, where you have actually achieved and achieved all together, the demand that the unacceptable and voluntary convention on the creation of the super-equity should now be changed can find a decent ground. Obviously, Mr Minister, a new negotiation is needed this time at the initiative of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to analyse how disastrous it is for the decision to grant ninety years the Greek state's 'Silver' control over foreign affairs. A lot of ink has been spilled about it. Historic is known. Since the beginning of the memorials, the troika, expressing a punishing mood for our country, has sought to safeguard the tradition of public property in its control. I would like to remind you that the request for the mortgage of public property to cover public debt before the country's unacceptable signature in July of '15 was urgently reintroduced in February of '11 and was rejected after abomination by the then government of PASOK. I would like to dwell on the fact that, with our opposition, the New Democracy's party was identified, which explicitly defended and guaranteed the change of Law 4389/2016. I must admit that, and then to all the individual specific decisions that have come to complete this tradition to foreigners, the same attitude you held with us and then, until this national crime is completed, a crime that is a historic signal for the "first time left" and the SYRIZA - ANEL government. But, Minister, I wonder: you are almost a year in the government, and unfortunately you continue the same SYRIZA policy. Keep a slow eye on your election announcements, which you have written in the sand. What have you done about the criminal responsibilities relating to the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' convention, according to the statements at the time Voridis - Twelfths? What have you done to abolish the Tsakalotou decision and return ten thousand properties to government management? What did you do to make out by name whatever property has arrived at the supreme office? What have you done to change the choice of the Supervisory Council, the 'Ssilvers' capitulator? You could, if you did not want to raise the matter directly with the institutions, set it on the side by using our own legislative initiative. You did not. On the contrary, you are still using the excess for divestment of revenues, such as DESFA, ELPE, the Athens International Airport, without informing you about Parliament's procedures, without taking into account the possibility of using the country's natural resources and their profitable prospects in view of the great recession and the new economic crisis. Instead, you know how to raise the salaries of appointed officials. In other words, the sale continues with your own new government. Ladies and gentlemen, today I believe that our proposal for a law has been made up of time, since 13 November 2018, which provided for the recovery of the Greek democracy of public property control as an absolute condition for its exploitation in the interests of the development of investment and social cohesion. The content of our proposal is well known and clear. The Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the Minister of Finance following a decision of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, issued by a three-quarters majority, as with the independent authorities and the decisions to transfer to the Overseas Department, on the basis of which ten thousand nineteen properties were assigned, shall be revoked. At the same time, we have proposed, by analogy, that the resources collected from the debt relief fund, the investment development programme and the Generation Solidarity Fund should be used in proportion, which has indeed been established. I think, Minister, that at this stage in particular, such a clear commitment and use of resources would be a lever for the hopeful development that we all swore on in it and for the reconstruction of the social state. We could, with the funds of the fund in national hands, support the Greek strategic enterprises that are now and in the next few weeks and months are directly threatened with redemption and delinquency. It is obvious from what I have said that another concept and strategy for the exploitation of public property is needed, a strategy that today can lead to a real relaunch of the economy and the development process. For how we mean this strategy, I will bring you a very specific example of the twenty-four thousand agricultural real estate held by the Greek State. Since 2011, around 3 million acres have been recorded and have been decided with resources from the improvement plans institutionalised free concession to young farmers for modern investments in the agri-food sector, with the footnote that the public does not lose ownership at a symbolic price. The implementation of the programme had to mobilise regional services in a difficult state and it was a difficult political will by the government. Ten years later, nothing happened. The lack of political will of the ministers triumphed the abundance of the state which is in the way of any development effort. And yet, today, this programme, like the other two as efficiently used for the use of urban and tourist properties, could be a dynamic start. Otherwise, we all like to describe great goals and speak horizontally about development. This intervention policy, which could lead to the use of specific resources, enable the critical sectors of the national economy and all those who are our next productive model to develop, would be the only concern of a government that really cares for the development of the country. In conclusion, I would like to make a more general point and answer the question: What is the difference between a conservative strategy and a conservative strategy? There is, Minister, a fundamental difference between us. You are expecting the events that cause them either by objective developments or by other initiatives. For example, your attitude to the measures that the European Union is taking at present because of pandemic seems a little foolish: 'You see what good we are, give and save.' You have no aggressive strategy to renegotiate and achieve targets. See, for example, the lifting of overcrowdings by pandemic, not your initiative. We are asking and pushing in the opposite direction, namely to force the new financial instruments to be renegotiated on our own initiative, by reviewing the unfavourable conditions which everyone now agrees to. While for you the only philosophy was to get out on the market, for us it is to plan dynamically the next day for the country and for her life in the storm of the problems we have come to. Unfortunately or luckily, we are not all the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr Georgios Arvanitidis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a transitional period with many crises following each other, with societies and economies, in order to make them more resilient. These multiple crises, budgetary, health, development, climate, speed up the end of the stables, but also the way we have been going to date. We are leading to the need for a new beginning, but in what direction? What kind of next day do we want? On what axes and what value will we rely on to lead to the next day? Who do we want to support? With what tools and priorities? That is why it may be more timely than ever to ask us about the use of public property and the use of the property in the supermarket, because the right, intelligent and with developmental, social, but also environmental criteria to exploit public property is a multi-stakeholder, if not exit from it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you must now review and renegotiate the burdensome terms and commitments of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a SYRIZA that with the ANLL has been subjected for ninety-nine years to public property by subjugating to the pressures of the foreigners, who are now impressed that they are at least verbally copying our proposals, I do not know if they already mean them. Our own ministers, the PASOK government, the government of George Papandreou, Maniatis, Papaconstantinou, were the ones who resisted and rejected such arrangements in the difficult years in 2011. So now, at this juncture, it is time to change the unacceptable operating conditions of the surplus fund and to reduce its duration by 50 years, so that it will apply until 2060, where our debt is also paid off to the ESM. Now the surplus fund from a divestment fund must be converted into a fund for the exploitation of public property by Greekising its administration and, of course, accountable to the House, thereby ensuring that a large part of its revenues will finance sustainable development by adapting to climate change, but also a socially sustainable insurance system to ensure new generations. You must now overturn this injurious policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, otherwise, gentlemen of the government, you are identified with it and not only do you identify yourself, but you are showing the most outdated and classic face of the old right by increasing the wages on the Golden Boys and by exalting yourself as your only plan what else? Privatisation, a sale to just close public debt holes. Where even this experience so far has shown that the revenues from the demilitarisation program have had a rather negligible impact on the reduction of public debt to date. You have no integrated strategy, gentlemen of the government. There is no social development of the benefits of making use of public property, no planning for sustainable development and shielding against climate change. In particular, the use of public participation and control in strategic areas such as energy must obey an integrated national development plan, of course, of democratic legitimacy. There is a risk, due to the small size of the market, that the privatizations you think are a solution to create monopolistic and oligopolistic distortions. In this light, the demilitarisations of PPA and IPTO that you are planning will put some amounts into public accounting and public corban, but will turn a public monopoly into a private and without any substantial social and developmental impact. If you really wanted the benefits of using natural gas, the fight against energy poverty by households, the strengthening of the competitiveness of businesses in Greece and the fruits of the citizens and businesses on Greek territory should have been both you and SYRIZA had already run the development of the TEN networks. The responsibilities of both of you are heavy on the fact that, with your delays, these projects have not gone ahead and that RAE now responds to them even in the light of the 1923s, which ends the ESRB, which finances such projects. And not only does it respond, but it gives private individuals the construction of networks such as Veroia and Giannitsa. In your attitude, that is to say, you are giving private interests and of course you are losing the most important value of the TENs and, by extension, of the PPA which you want to privatize tomorrow, since it will lose very important areas such as the Peloponnese and Western Macedonia. So we warn you that in such policies you will find us against. In the Change Movement we say that the government must commit that no public business will be sold at this juncture. In fact, at this economic juncture, where all the prices are falling, where none of those who are interested do appreciate the values of companies at the highest point. What price will you get from all this effort? Of course we must see again in the critical social goods for citizens in the water, in the parts of energy, the participation of the Greek State by 35% in their share capital in order to ensure the role of the public in these enterprises. We also say that the country needs an investment programme of 100 billion euros over the next five years with well-designed partnerships between foreign and domestic public and private funds in a long-term project, a Greek, that is, Green Deal with PPP, which will seek to co-operate public assets with mutual benefit and risk-taking. The private sector must also take risks. Under the responsibility of the Ministerial Council, investment should be promoted in the critical energy sectors, in the PPC, in the ELPEs, to IPTO, which will be approved and updated by Parliament. On the basis of these plans, partnerships with investors must be sought without, as I have said, granting, as I have said, total public participation, such as the IPTO where the connections of the islands must be developed, but also electricity storage projects must be developed throughout Greece. Minister, you have also announced the transfer of a property that in 2013 went to TIADED in Thessaloniki to the Thermaikos Gulf for Alexandria Innovation Zone. There's one and a half to two years left for his execution. When will this property be granted? When will the institution be established in view of the fact that all studies and financial resources must be committed in 2021? Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, coming out of the ten-year crisis with high public debt without yet having restructured our productive model and with unclear yet financial resources, is in danger of getting into a new long-term and unpredictable consequences of a European symposium. Just when we took a breath, or out of the water, we have to do a macrobutte again. This cannot be tolerated either by the citizens or by businesses. Neither our society can stand it, nor our economy can. If the recession varies according to the forecasts we see in public then our country's debt is expected to rise to dramatically in the 200 % of GDP area. We say it is time to commit to a model of recovery of society and of the economy that we define green social contract with society upright and alive, a green social contract based on the cooperative economy with the aim of sustainable development and adapting us to climate change. And I close, as I started in relation to how to deal with the crisis. He said in a recent interview with TAGESSPIEGEL: 'The longer the crisis will be lasting, the more the state will lose its ability to use classical measures to address its economic consequences'. So let us also remind Mr Symble that classical measures in the sense of outdated and failed were the measures of austerity and privatization which he very much insisted on being implemented in full until the end of the previous crisis. Mr Minister, remember these in Germany at the summit and change the plan we are proposing before it is too late for our country and our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Now Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the question of the Change Movement with a given absence of the Finance Minister. And I will overshadow, Mr Secretary, in what Scandalidis said in relation to the absence of the Minister, is a party question and, regardless of any other procedure, the Minister should have been present and answered by institutions to the question. I shall judge it as an institutional blow to a great deal of diligentness and I shall continue to do so. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, and the Greek people have already completed ten years of deep crisis, austerity and hope, which may have been lost and when old and new generations expected something good to happen, another crisis that is different, but a crisis of which the consequences are rapid, are visible, while the predictions are dreadful. A dramatic decline in employment and pay. Increase underemployment and precarious forms of work. They are data that will reduce the household income available and degrade the positive impact of consumer spending and domestic demand on Gross National Product. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, a heavy fingerprint is also expected in the insurance system. Already, in the first quarter of 2020, the deficit to the ECA amounts to EUR 350 million and at the end of 2020 is estimated, depending on the depth and duration of the recession, to EUR 2 to 3 billion, with a more likely development of the ECA deficit to ‘seat’ to EUR 2,5 billion. When this timely question was tabled, the possibility of a pandemic such as the one we have today in our country simply did not exist. But here we are, with an unknown time horizon and with surely negative consequences, in order to deal with it. That is why the question of the Change Movement is so timely today. Now, more than ever, the use of public property depends on the next day of the country, that is, our fate depends. In this matter, responsibility and inappropriateness had a name. SYRIZA. But now they're getting a second name. New Republic. SYRIZA during the proud negotiation in the summer of 2015 signed something that would not have accepted any previous government. What? The mortgage on public property for ninety-nine years as a pledge to lenders. Minister, it has been four years since. By 2115 there are only ninety-five years left and the excess management of the public property is here, with all its predicted, well or bad, as everyone sees. You, Minister, and the government of the so-called state of staff what are you doing? Do you continue with success and pride what SYRIZA had started? Is the level of transparency in the operation of the surplus fund satisfying you? Don't you think the Greek State has been over-guaranteed? Does it not bother you that the decisions of the five-member Overseas Supervisory Board are taken on the basis of a vote of at least four members, when both members, including the President, are chosen by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism? I ask you, because in the ten months that you are ruling all you have done in the context of the Public Property Certification Programme as a government, it is supposed, for a long time, to be ready to save the country, that was a unique change. All you so far consider necessary to happen for the institutional framework of the Hellenic Company of Participators and Property, namely the Supreme Council, was to increase the maximum wage ceilings for presidents, managers or appointed advisers of public enterprises whose shares have been transferred to it. Nothing else bothers you, Minister? The fact that the Public Property Certification Program, as implemented after 2011, has not contributed to an effective and drastic reduction in your public debt is satisfying? Do you not think that there is a need for a universal change in the design and execution of the denominator, with a central objective much more and less a reduction in its numerator due to debt to GDP? We, as a Change Movement, believe that this is why we have tabled and will continue to table concrete proposals, because our understanding is far from your own, which you believe in the sanctity of the free market, and Mr Mitsotakis' confession is that 'it does not have any illusion for a society without inequality, as this is contrary to human nature, while those who attempted it destroyed democracy and human rights'. That is why our main proposal is to convert the surplus fund from a divestment fund to a fund for the exploitation of public property, ensuring that a significant proportion of the revenue is directed towards financing development, but also to the social security system through transgenic justice and the safeguarding of new generations within the framework of our respective legislative initiative on the exploitation of hydrocarbons. As we have established the channelling of a percentage from the exploitation of hydrocarbons into the insurance system, so now we are proposing again - we have also proposed it in 2018 - to channel a percentage of the real estate into the insurance system. Minister, you must be honest with the Greek citizens. Let's not be fooled here. Given the deadlock on the demographic issue due to the ageing of the population, together with the new and particularly unfavourable data on the labour market and on the ECA, the need to support the insurance system with new resources is undeniable. We know that and you know it. You are well aware that the survival of the insurance system also depends on the attraction of new resources. In February, two months ago, in a debate on the insurance bill, the Minister of Labour assured us, like his predecessor, of the viability of the insurance system for fifty years. We told him at the time that no commensurate study with a horizon of fifty years could have provided a secure prediction, for example, of the rate of growth and anything else that might be relevant to a depth of fifty years. Nor could it provide for the weaknesses of the world economy in the face of a natural disaster or a pandemic with its consequences. Unfortunately, a few months later, it turns out that we really cannot predict such overthrows. That's not what I'm saying. Not at all. What we can do is do immediately and without delay. Do immediately and without delay. What we have to do is strengthen our insurance system and the ACAE, in order to ensure the sustainability of the insurance and pension system for the benefit of today's and future workers and pensioners, for the benefit of ultimately society and the Greek nation. That is why the use of public property and the support through this Solidarity Fund to strengthen the insurance and pension system will give the kiss of life to the system. At the same time, it will create the space for reducing insurance contributions and, therefore, we will also have an increase in the competitiveness of businesses and the creation of new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only way to say that we are looking at the future. Only then can we say that while respecting the work of the workers, with decent pensions and at the same time creating a safe environment for young people who enter an extremely difficult and competitive labour market, we offer something. So there's a way. Responsibility, seriousness and will need it. The conditions are favourable to the renegotiation. Finally, Minister, I would like to say that our position is specific. At the moment, there is a legislative framework which provides for a 1-1-2009 revenue of the AAGE to be provided by 10% of the privatizations of public enterprises and bodies. Not applicable. It provides for an income of 4% of the annual VAT revenue. Not applicable. Thus, the GAEC, which is intended to ensure the pensions of the new generations, from 1-1-2009 onwards, since its establishment, has been the only revenues generated by the PASOK governments as reservations on higher pensions. And what am I talking about? I am referring to the fact that it is EUR 51 million a month for main pensions and EUR 1.2 million for supplementary pensions. These are the data the PASOK had voted on and established. So what do we propose? To institutionalise an income in favour of the ACAGE, in favour of the pensions and health care of our current workers and children, from the revenues of the surplus, whose mission should not be the sale of public property, but the use of public property with the best conditions for Greek citizens, today and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u90	Mr. Colleague, even though you're also a son-in-law of Arcadia, you're finished with your dentistry and you've got a minute and a half. Thank you. Mr Michalis Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the granting of the public property for ninety years by the SYRIZA Government has been one of the worst agreements from a recommendation from a Greek state and at a substantial level for the public interest and symbolic level for national independence. The shape reached by the then government with lenders is the epitome of the most extreme neoliberal perception, namely the divestment of public property, and indeed, at a price far below its actual value. Today this agreement is not only a barbaric of the past, some who want to forget it, but it is clearly and clearly an obstacle to any development potential in the country. That's why he needs to change. Despite its election announcements, the New Democracy Government has done nothing at all to renegotiate SYRIZA's very bad agreement at a time when both strict financial supervision conditions are being reviewed from the past and the state's role in the economy at European and global level. At the same time as the powerful financial countries in the north are financially strengthening their strategic operations in order to protect them from the takeover of third countries, our country is invited to continue a privatization programme, which includes strategic enterprises, without any development prospects, without any national targets. Greece, as one of the southern countries that have indeed been severely affected in the economic field by the coronary, but which do not have the beastly surpluses of the countries of the European north, in order to absorb shocks in their economy, needs a development shock with the public sector in a strategic but also a leading role. Despite the fact that you, Minister, do not understand that, in the midst of a pandemic, you should not go ahead with key demilitarisations, such as the Athens International Airport or the "Greek Petroleum", which is why you instructed to freeze, since their real value will be greatly underestimated in the bad current situation, you continue the same strategy that shows to have cash and no development incentives. In this context, the only reasonable, effective and mutually advantageous, both for the interests of the Greek people and the country's development prospects and for the safeguards of lenders is the conversion of the surplus from a Fund for the Exploitation of the Public Property to private individuals in a fund for the real use of this property. This and recovery of national sovereignty constitutes and contributes effectively to the increase of Gross National Product. Because whatever efforts are made to improve the ratio of debt as a percentage of GDP, they will not bear fruit if we do not actually have an increase in gross national product. That is exactly where our political proposal is aimed. Because the programme we are proposing - our rapporteur, Mr Scandalides, has analysed it in detail - is characterised by democratic legitimacy, transparency, accountability, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, the use of resources to finance the insurance system. With regard in particular to the programme of immigration of the GOI, including flagrant investments, such as that in Greek, this must not only be interrupted, so that it will be put on a new political footing with the features that I have already mentioned. And of course, Mr Minister, the misguided statements from your colleague about when the investment will begin in Greek at last. I remember from this step he said he'd start by the end of 19. Two months ago he said he'd start on Thomas' Sunday. Now the best estimates are saying that it will start June to July. Therefore, all these poor predictions made only to create impressions and are constantly being disproved on the one hand and, furthermore, they cause concern about a flagrant, truly, investment that the global investment community is monitoring. There is also a need for speeding up bureaucratic procedures and removing obstacles - we have included this in our proposal - so that there can be a direct benefit of development and economic development, since, for example, in the case of Marina Alimos, which has recently been signed, twenty-eight months will be necessary for the issue of the necessary licences to begin regeneration work and five years from now, at best, in order to complete the investment. So, in the medium term, national plans are needed to be updated annually by Parliament to promote investment in critical energy sectors through DESFA and DESFA, ELPE and PPC, in the areas of large energy projects, including EastMed, whose agreement we approved in the previous days, in the management of the country's water resources. On the basis of those plans, investment partnerships should be sought through mainly the award of areas of activity of public undertakings without, on the other hand, granting the total public participation. It is of paramount importance to implement a policy that ensures further strengthening competition and effective state supervision in all areas that have been implemented or promoted by demobilisation and market opening. At the same time - referred to earlier - the exploitation of the twenty-four thousand real estate of ETA could substantially, practically and effectively strengthen agricultural cooperatives, producer groups and young farmers at a time when the primary sector is recovering the lost land and is called upon to play a leading role in the effort to exit the country from the crisis, by increasing the quality of production and by strengthening the export character of this production. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government must today account for literally adopting the failed policy of the previous SYRIZA government, using the excess to sell - yes, to sell - the most profitable and strategicly important public enterprises. The Government must answer why it does so without taking into account either the future potential of these undertakings in the exploitation of their natural resources or their potential profitable prospects. And the government must answer why it does not renegotiate the burdensome terms of this agreement at this very critical time. Above all, however, ladies and gentlemen, the government must answer - and we expect, Minister, that you do this here in the House - because, in all the critical questions we have raised for a long time, the answers are unfortunately still being sought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u92	Mr. Apostle Panas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Company of Participation and Property, the well-known superstition, was set up in February 2017 during the SYRIZA - ANEL administration to make use of the public property. The establishment of the superstition was, in fact, to be a task of close supervision and strict control of the institutions in the Greek governments through the mortgage of public property. The GOI, the Public Real Estate Company and the Financial Stability Fund are the subsidiaries of the Supreme Treasury. The question that is rightly raised and what we are calling on the government to answer is in what terms and in what ways the public property which the Greek State has granted as a guarantee to guarantee the public debt to creditors is currently being used. Moreover, the issue of divestment of public property and privatization is a matter of diligent isolation from public dialogue. For many of the expressions and parameters of the agreements concluded at times, neither the House itself nor through it has ever been informed of the Greek people. At the moment, amidst the unprecedented health crisis of the coronary and the multi-faceted economic consequences, this issue can be considered opportune. However, today's debate is a very good time to talk with open papers about how the country's public property can be exploited to what it needs more than ever: building a new production model on the road towards relaunching the economy. It puts us on this road, wanting and not, the Krone crisis, by closing operations, and, as it seems, again seems, unemployment, paralysing the primary sector, breaking up the production cycle, causing tourism the largest, perhaps, damage it has experienced. To this challenge, we must respond through the creation of a strategic plan for work, insurance, health, agricultural sector, tourism and business support. From the outset, therefore, this project can be the targeted, sustainable and constructive use of public property with the ultimate aim of calling for: the recovery of our national sovereignty. First and foremost, where the Change Movement has tabled such a proposal, it is the management of the surplus fund and the way it is defined. Furthermore, is it time for the government to respond if it intends to renegotiate the asphyxiary conditions agreed by the SYRIZA Government and commit the country for ninety years? And to be more specific, what needs to be heard in today's debate is that the real estate company of the public is currently owned by twenty-three thousand nine hundred twenty-eight buildings of rural land. How will these properties be exploited towards a substantial relaunch of primary production and a decisive enhancement of rural activity? Our proposal is that this real estate should be directed towards strengthening agricultural cooperatives, producer groups and young farmers. In particular, the procedure for granting agricultural land to private buyers is rather complex. It involves several organisations and bodies from OPECE to the regions. It can therefore be understood that this is a system that needs to be red taped, that it is transparent and that the necessary safeguards are created so that this property can be used exclusively for productive purposes. We also ask whether a register of farmers has ever been created for the disposal of agricultural land. The government must take a position on whether it is intended to invest effectively and in a sustainable way in the country's primary sector. Today's debate is a very good opportunity for this. Incentives must be given to the rural world, but not arbitrarily, but with guarantees and in the direction of upgrading production, product quality, and in full harmony with the new Green Convention, the European Union's policy on climate change, the so-called Green Deal. Is it finally time for the government to find itself before its responsibilities at such a difficult time for both the country and internationally? So let us begin, even lately, an open dialogue within Parliament and widely in society as to whether the country's great and historic commitment to property is finally a place for the country's great and historic in many cases. So we urge you to be placed, giving sincere answers to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the claim of creditors for mortgageing the country's public property was originally made to the PASOK government in 2010. No government has dared to consent to a crime that restricted national sovereignty and undermined our national status and which ultimately gave us a debt colony. This was a demand with purely degrading and nationally harmful conditions, as creditors asked the Greek state to remove national sovereignty over a series of public property in Greece and abroad, assuming it as a guarantee for debt repayment. What no government accepted, no one expected it to be completed by the government of the square and the indignant. Finally, they proved to be the most cooperative and most persuasive in the requirements of lenders. We recall that the then Minister for Finance did not appear once in the Greek Parliament with a question about his choice, as you do today. The Minister of Finance doesn't come to the House to answer. At that time, the New Democracy was talking about scandal, criminal responsibilities and committees of inquiry. Today, as a government, one would expect to deal with this serious issue of national sovereignty in practice with the same passion that one voted against as Opposition to the concession. However, for a year now, the silence of the government is deafening. Apart from the resetting of the right-wing state by placing virtues in the administrations of the TECs, New Democracy proves one of the same as SYRIZA, which finally shows that they are identified in the hottest issues and only differ for reasons of communication to the least. Gentlemen of the government, have you not finally had a plan, as you assured the Greek people in an election? For a year now you have been ruling, we are waiting to see a government planning on debt relief, overthrowing the commitment of national property and the national waste disposal. We expect to see the implementation of what you promised of tax relief, growth and jobs, but we still have not seen. The coronary pandemic gave you a little credit. But soon, we will wait for the results. The Change Movement has clear positions and suggestions on this major issue too. We have a patriotic duty to remind citizens that we are not all the same, that for us the feelings "Greece belongs to the Greeks" and the recovery of our national sovereignty are not just words. It's our political DNA. It's the deposit that Andreas Papandreou left us. Since you took over, you have not written a word to the European Union institutions to reduce the primary surplus. Now, throughout Europe and I have a pandemic, the logic of privatization is replaced by the logic of stateism. The members of the European Union turn to the statistics of their major industries to save them from the global recession and citizens once again trust States to protect their health, their jobs, their everyday life, their quality of life. So the sale of the public property by the state-owned supranational administration now belongs to a rationally obsolete and inefficient. We are proposing a review of the philosophy of the supermarket from the sale of public property in the exploitation and recovery of national sovereignty. The management of the Supreme Council and its subsidiaries is to be Greeks chosen by the Greek Parliament and accounted for by it rather than by the ESS and the European Commission. We are proposing to make use of agricultural land by granting young farmers. In this way, the problem of the lack of agricultural land will be addressed. We are proposing to grant urban real estate, and above all, in the region, to local authorities through the conclusion of programme contracts, the use of tourist real estate. In my country in Nafplio and in general in Argolida, there are fillets that remain untapped. Go ahead and use them, boost tourism and the local economy. Finally, we are proposing attracting investment in critical infrastructure for the country, instead of selling them out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. The creation of a resource development fund for the use of these real estates could finance the insurance system and create new jobs, not just. It can be another crucial source of funding for the National Health System and along with donations collected in the context of the treatment of the pandemic used to upgrade public hospitals. Since the wounds that the pandemic is going to leave in the global economy are estimated to lead to thousands of lost jobs, it goes without saying that armies of our insecure fellow citizens will be created. We have the opportunity to cover the medical care of those of our fellow citizens who are hit by the economic consequences of the epidemic and stay uninsured with their families and ultimately reduce the gap and the inequalities that will arise. Minister, governance does not mean a static management of a daily life. It is the vision, design and persistent claim to overthrow the harmful consequences of the memoranda. It is care for all the citizens of this country and especially the non-preferential ones. It is the accountability for your actions that so far do not differ from those of the SYRIZA. We call for the national interest and call on your patriotic conscience. If not now, if the international conditions that create the right conditions, when will you do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u96	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the superstate in this form and, in particular, through the assignment to it of the entire public real estate was the result of the Government's ‘superior negotiation’ of Tsipras in the first half of 2015. It was so proud of this negotiation that it produced only humiliating results for the country. It is particularly painful for the citizens. Because humiliation is the establishment of the superstate in Article 184 of L.4389/2016, which constitutes a loss of national sovereignty that has not been accepted by any other government. The country was led to this solution because of the impasse created by Mr Tsipras' government in the negotiations with our partners, the total loss of confidence in our country. And the loss of confidence was created by an unreserved negotiation, with the unfamiliar memory referendum that led to a new and more painful memorandum. In an agreement, part of which is the establishment of the surplus fund, which has been binding on the country for nine nine years. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, since under the law on its operation the superstate is run by a five-member supervisory board. The three members of the Supervisory Board shall be chosen by the Government, in agreement with the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) acting jointly, both members shall be chosen by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). In order to obtain a quorum at the meetings of the Supervisory Board, at least four members should be present, while decisions shall be taken following a vote of at least four members. It is clear that without the agreement of at least one member from what is defined by the European Commission and the ESM, no decision can be taken. It is characteristic that the EBRD, a subsidiary of more than the surplus, transferred ownership and predominance of all the movable and immovable assets that belong to the State with the following exceptions: First, sanctuary, beaches and coastal areas, water land. Second, Ramsar districts. Third, NATURA regions. Fourth, archaeological sites and forest areas. The ownership and distribution of the majority of the properties of the GOI is also transferred to the EBRD. It also controls public participation in public enterprises. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, our Government was called upon to deal with an already shaped situation and with narrow margins of reaction or changes in an agreement that others signed and with which they committed the country. That does not mean that our choice is to suffice in the role of the spectator. Instead, our aim is to make use of public property in terms of public interest, but also to produce goodwill through this use that will have multiple benefits for the Greek economy. Here I would remind you that by a recent decision of the Minister of Finance published on 13 May in the FEK it was transferred real estate from TIPED to the Greek State. It is a property located in Perea of the Municipality of Thermaikos with an area of about seven hundred sixty acres. In other words, the first and most important step was taken to create a fourth generation technology park. Directly follows legislation on the concession of the land from the Ministry of Finance to Alexandria Innovation Zone. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a rational use of public property for the benefit of the Greek economy and Greek citizens. I should tell you that the surplus fund in the first consolidated balance sheet drawn up for the financial year 2018 presents revenues of EUR 1,04 billion and losses following taxes and minority rights of EUR 159 million. It presents marginal operating profits of EUR 1,1 million, total assets of EUR 5,5 billion, equity of EUR 2,9 billion, while fixed assets were counted at EUR 2,36 billion. It also presented EUR 736 million of cash, EUR 220 million loans and global commitments close to EUR 2.6 billion. In fact, most of the losses presented by the Greek company’s balance sheet are due to PPC’s losses which amounted to EUR 903 million in 2018. The aim of the government, as I have said, has been and is that the state should have active participation and supervision in areas relating to the operation of the surplus fund, such as the policies for the governance of public utilities that fall within the excess and I will refer in detail to my secondaryity for them. Your question raises the question of the transfer to the EBRD of ten thousand ten thousand real estate belonging to the Greek State by decision and signature of the then Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou in 2018. Clearly there has been a question of what these properties are and that is why there is also a check to identify and identify them. What the results of this audit are: out of ten thousand thousand tenths of the Ninth Century and nine thousand seventy-six have been identified (90.70%). Unidentified ECMs amount to nine forty-three, ninety-three, nine,30%. Of the nine thousand per cent seventy-six properties identified as a large number of real estate, eight thousand thirty-nine ECE, 82.40 per cent of the total, are covered by the transfer exceptions. In other words, they are archaeological sites, gypsies, NATURA areas and all other categories excluded. In conclusion, from the nine thousandth percent seventy-six (9.176) ECE identified, 8/9 fall under the transfer exemptions. Therefore, only 1/9 will be transferred to the EBRD. Of the eight thousand thirty-nine (8.339) OCE, which fall within the exceptions, the three thousand fourteenths (3.414) OCE have already been excluded, while the remaining ones will be exempted within a short period of time. Of the ten thousand tenths (10.119) of the KEK, the Ministry of Finance owns two thousand six hundred twenty-seven (2,627). With regard to the Occupied Territories' Responsibilities, we stress that the identification and identification of them for the identification of the exceptions is carried out by the relevant Ministry, in accordance with the legislation governing its real estate. Obviously, it was a sloppy and sloppy choice of the previous administration that did not control these properties. The result is almost 90% of those identified to date, subject to the exceptions of the transfer, since they were archaeological sites, forest areas, saints and beaches, water land and areas "NATURA". And we're coming to rehabilitate this unhealthyness. In my dentext I shall refer to the moves that have been made so far, in order to improve the operation of the hypertum for the benefit of the national interest, but also to the possibilities that exist for changing the framework. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I will also answer the other questions you have raised in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u98	Thank you. We are now continuing with the parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Before I turn to the substance of the timely question that the Change Movement, led by the President of the Genome, has tabled, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, the formulation of a political thought which has nothing to do with the question, but with the style of some people of today's authority. We have the facts with the inauguration of Omonoia Square. I don't know what to say. I choose from my thoughts some that I consider to be crucial. Madam and honourable Members, we've been living in a pandemic for two months. We keep telling the House - I happened to be here all weeks as Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement - how important it is to monitor the logic of science. We ruled out associations and crowding. We, as opposition, agreed by the government in deciding, by following the logic of science, have created a common line as a state and now that the moments are coming from week to week, Lockdown to abolish and to start social and economic activities in the context of Greek society, we have some facts that came out of the context. There was even violence. I am referring mainly to the square of Agios Georgios in Kipseli in the center of Athens and Agia Paraskevi, which is my region. I am also referring to a meeting that took place in the days when Parliament voted on the environmental draft law containing directives and environmental regulations. There was an event outside, and the fact that the protesters, assembled, did not follow the rules of distances. Suddenly, while a log of basic thought is being created, we have a second event in Omonoia Square and I say "first of all", because the show had been preceded outside the Maximos Mansion. It says, ladies and gentlemen, the Mayor of Athenians "It is wrong". Can we be content with that logical explanation? It's right to invoke your mistakes, highlight your mistakes and ask for "I'm sorry". But is it wrong? With the pandemic, the measures we have taken, the discussions that have taken to limit rights on the basis of the interpretative declaration of Article 5 of the Constitution, the debates that have taken in the House or in the media, how can you make such a mistake? How can you make a right move with Alkis Profsalitis, but go out of Maximos and there be a crowd and a breach of measures? How can you say "I was wrong" with Omonia Square? It can't be wrong. More likely explanation is arrogance. It is, ladies and gentlemen, that everything is fine when we decide and concern you, but we will be exempt from the rule. We're outside. We're something else. We have special permits for pandemic and democracy! That is what I have chosen, although our point is else, to record it today at the National Representation, because I was really impressed negatively and very much. It's not a mistake to forgive. It is a manifestation of arrogance that undergoes the logic of double data, that is to say, for you many, but for us the few that we are. So forgive me for this introduction. I thought it was necessary for this criticism to be heard at the National Representation. I do not know what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman will say nor do I want to move forward. Besides, at the time of the Prime Minister's statement that all the property of Greece is going to a fund to serve the public debt that took place in July 2015, I do not know if you were a Minister of Finance, I do not remember. But I am very curious to hear you say what you are going to say, because there is the story Mr Scandalides recorded in a few words, but there is also a principle of public life that in the democracies the people decide and in their choices a correlation of powers is formed and each party has the right to say what they want to say. But now I say: does he have the right to suffer and to lose a new memory? He doesn't. And if, in any case, he thinks he has, the National Representation can place things where he has to place them, based on his history, data and logic. Ladies and gentlemen, for a century, it has been the political choice of the SYRIZA government! For a century, the whole "the" of the Greek State is on the property side - I will not go into technical terms, because I want to make myself clear - which will have what comes out of it. Today, Mr. Besiropoulos gave interesting evidence. But here you came to say something else. We have not come to tell you what exactly you have registered in the government for so many months with regard to public property. We came to tell you why you broke the four-year-old front in this Chamber when we condemned the SYRIZA Government for this political choice. I didn't hear you, Mr. Besyropoulou. Sorry, the recording is useful - I will take your speech to see what you have said - about what we have as the Hellenic Republic, but we ask you why you insist on SYRIZA's policy. This is the question that we all sign up to the Change Movement, Mrs. Gennamas. So we have, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Stability Fund to pass to the supreme fund. We delivered it to around EUR 11 billion, with EUR 1.5 billion coming from the recapitalisation of the banks - that is, we lost some billion as a result of the policy of Tsipras - Varoufakis - and all the rest of the assets and property. All of it! And you are now ten months - you will be running out of time - to the government and what we have condemned, you as a New Democracy are keeping it as it is. That's right, Mr. Mulkiotis told you, if I'm not mistaken, that the only change you've made is to give more to those who run these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, there are problems here and because the government seems to be suffering recently, we need to remind ourselves: Is it governed by the choice of the legislator, with a majority of SYRIZA - Kammenos in 2016, this fund from options in which - for all five members - the European Commission and the SSM are good? It's not. Does it raise a matter of popular sovereignty? She's on her way. It raises, absolutely, a matter of popular sovereignty. Now that Greece is reconstructing after the memorials, is that not working? It's our concern. That is why we have tabled the proposal to change the method of selecting the members of the administration of this fund, which is why we say the Minister of Finance, who has the presumption of popular sovereignty and the legitimacy of each Greek and every Greek, by the procedure that we have several times implemented through the three-quarters of the Conference of Presidents to appoint his administration. Clean things. The country is going through a new phase, controls its assets and decides for itself, on the basis of the realization and divestment - if necessary - of its assets. Second theme, popular sovereignty: Exploitation means sales? Just sales? We measure what exactly we own and sell them? Exploitation isn't there? I said, as a member of the Opposition of the previous period of the Parliament, that there must be exceptions to the privatisations at 100% and I said that the first issue is "Greek Petroleum". I did not hesitate to exhume the very serious activity of Mr. Chotsouros at the time. I exempted from my criticisms at SYRIZA Mr. Chochoro and one more, the head of the HFSF, who then became my Minister - my fellow student, I have known him for many years now, and now I have been missing his name - who has been very well run by the Financial Stability Fund. We have, Minister, obligations towards ourselves and everyone, on the basis of our course, and towards the country. Why would you sell something to you? Do you need any revenue in the Treasury and sell what you have in front of you? Why is something that's been consistently performing over the last few years, selling it? Here, the remarks are many and really in this process we will have to make specific remarks, underlines and not just. I'm saying now: Is the utilization in the spectrum of your actions? Do you have any use in mind instead of divestments? If not, the administration keeps it, the method of 'evaluation', i.e. sales, do you keep it, then what do you differ? To what is different from what you condemn? As all my fellow Members have said before, Mr Katrinis, Mr Mulkiotis, Mr Panas, Mr Pulas, we have problems with the recession we have before us. Do we have any problems with our pension system with all the inconveniences this pandemic has caused? We do. We have an obligation to strengthen our medical system, both from the point of view of the insurance funds and from the point of view of the National Health System. The increase in the number of intensive care units was a necessary move. We have contributed, as a parliamentary group with our own economic offer. However, intensive care units want qualified personnel. You can't work with a man you hired a month ago. Are we going to use this time to train them? What costs are needed to provide a better real service? Could it not be linked in this context to the new institutional conditions and the problems in the area of insurance, pensions and medical care? Yeah, it's the answer. There's need. You first see it in everyday practice. Do you have in mind connecting the use of public property to these needs? At last, speak! The recording of data is not a government activity, and as some people have rightly said before, ladies and gentlemen, recording a problem does not mean that you have a government solution. Recording a problem doesn't even mean analysis. The first stage of analysis is logging. How do you answer politics? What creates government policy? That's what we expect to hear. In your prototype, however, Minister, we have not heard them, and because we have seen that for eleven months you have not changed Rots, you continue on the SYRIZA line, I think your denture has nothing to offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u100	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA now has the floor, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Scandalidis, when I saw that there is a question about the superstition I thought it was an opportunity for a serious debate on the data and how the superstition can or cannot, in how it can or cannot, change and be a tool or not a tool for productive reconstruction, a tool for national planning. That's what I expected. I did not expect there to be a debate which is disturbing by some of your Members, because it is ruining the front for four years that you have been with New Democracy. I was expecting something different. I was expecting you to prove that at least you know what exists right now. I thought, in other words, that you knew that the TIADED was from 2011, that the DEPA you mentioned was there through the 2013 plan, that the TIADE now is a subsidiary of the Supreme Council, but it works autonomously and is the deposit before we come to the government and that we do not continue the government's policy on the PPA. We wanted to split up the commercial and the network and not sell, even though we had to, as it was in the TIAD and we inherited it. I thought that the four most important words were: or other means as regards the question raised by Mr Loverdos. After the negotiation - Mr. Loverdes asked Mr. Vesyropoulos how we are using it - the difference is that the TIADE can only be exploited by privatisation, while the excess can be privatised or "with other means". The "other means" means you're not forced to sell it. That's what it means. That you can do whatever you want, have a plan, get a joint project with other businesses. Do you know that there is this term? That this was negotiated on 14 July 2015, should the term ‘or other means’ enter? Do you know the supranational institution? What did we negotiate? Do you know what the coordination mechanism is, how the Ministries along with the supreme CGDs can have public policies in infrastructure, networks and transport? Do you know what the national plan is, which the Ministry of Finance makes, it gives it to the superstition, the superstition makes it the government's priorities of fifty-five pounds and then, again, it comes for approval by the Treasury? I can make too many criticisms of what we did. But are we going to discuss the mechanisms that are in place, which we have changed, to become a different thing from TEAD and to become as close as possible to a Sovereign Wealth Fund, namely a national wealth fund, as is Norway, Singapore and other countries? That is what we have tried to do with great pressure from institutions, but with an effort to be a tool of our national strategy. Do you know these mechanisms? I can make your criticisms about them, because we have not been more able to broaden the criteria. I imagine, Mr Scandalides, that you do not want to go back to the PASOK era, where a minister supervised a public operation and made three hundred recruitments and the two hundred fifty happened to be from his own county. I imagine you have another plan. So, can you tell me this? Do you want there to be a national wealth fund? Do you want some criteria on how to decide on these, an alternative to what the government will do with the neoliberal strategy? Do you have an opinion on the governance of the surplus fund? You only said how to be elected by the Minister of Finance. Good! Below. How will it work? Do you want the ECO to return to the Ministries and be the minister's responsibility? That's what you want. Say it. Do you think that we can set up more transparent governance systems, namely to prevent political involvement in the bad sense - where the Minister decides who will put it, how to put it, a direct intervention with the client state - and to keep politics in the good sense, the debate on public policies in all places? Is this part of the conversation? It is not the perfect system of governance, the excess or I maintain that it is, but that was the effort. I do not understand whether we want an excess fund that is a fund of national wealth, which will contribute to the government's development perspective. You know he's already got a difference from the GOI, except for the other means, but it's not forced to sell. No commitment. To increase the value of the assets either AEIGs or immovable property. But he has no obligation to sell. But does it have a role to play in your own arrest for a progressive alternative development strategy? Were you happy like real estate and public business before? In this could be a serious debate, but at least you know what's in place, what we did, how we could do more, see how we change the criteria, how you broaden the criteria, what is an investment, how you make an investment, how you internalise the externalities, how you coordinate the project, how you boldly do the strategic plan that forms and approves the Ministry of Finance in a different direction. This is a serious debate, and when I have called both PASOK and Mera25 - the JRC, unfortunately, would never listen to me - in a different strategy of progressive forces, on that I do. But now you're telling me that what the SYRIZA government has done is that it sells and is the same thing as the SYRIZA, and you shouldn't apologize for the SYRIZA, which was for sale only for the debt? Only for sale and only for debt from 2011 onwards. Isn't it the T.I.E.L.D.? Am I exaggerating somewhere? Am I saying something that isn't right? We tried slowly, under the pressure you had and you had the pressures - it was imposed in both cases - at least to reach a mechanism, an instrument for exploiting public wealth, and to integrate it into an alternative development strategy. This is a conversation, but in particular? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have not shown that you know that there is even a coordination mechanism, even that there is a strategic plan to change it and how it works. So I invite you to have a serious conversation about these things. I had no purpose, nor any reason to criticise you, but I heard the same arguments except the terrible four-year front with the New Democracy that is spoiling. I have not heard any basic argument as to how this fund will be used. In other words, I call on you to take this opportunity - and that is what I am ending, Mr President, and thank you, it is my last proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u102	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u103	I invite you to discuss fundamentally what the SYRIZA Government has achieved - with the positive and negative - and what changes are needed either in the coordination mechanism, in the strategic plan, in governance and how a fund is integrated into a policy that is left-wing, which has social criteria which have the potential to have economic and social effect, but which retains a return obligation on a policy that the Minister can do whatever he wants with a public undertaking or with the real estate of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u104	Thank you. Mr. Bukouros has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u105	I will speak from here, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we really believe in the New Democracy that it is not one of the issues that should not be discussed publicly in the public interest about the granting of public property to the excess. But we have just heard here the previous Minister of Finance of the SYRIZA Government present it simply as a development tool, which was done for the sake of the development and exploitation of public property. If I understood correctly, former Minister of Finance, the KINAAL Members have been accusing you mainly of this concession for ninety years, while your predecessors, the co-government in which they participated and the KINAL, had granted some of the public property to the excess for a year equal to the repayment time of the country's debt obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u106	I mean, never.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u107	Of course, you were also accused of the composition of the administration of this supergovernment, which cannot be decided, of making any decision on the use of any section of public property, if creditors do not agree. These were the two serious accusations and the former Minister of Finance here came to tell us that all this was done for development reasons, that not only concessions are foreseen, but other instruments are also provided for. Only in the four years of SYRIZA governance did we not see the other means of exploiting public property. We have seen the privatisations and, indeed, they have approved the privatisation of their predecessors, the assignment of airports to the 'FRAPORT' which they accused and whose agreement they said they would tear. That's about SYRIZA's credibility. I believe that Mr Tsakalotos was well-intentioned, because the question of PASOK Members is essentially addressed to him. Isn't it about the government and the New Democracy? Of course, it's her concern. Of course, we feel that this is absolutely a matter of concern and we have a position on it. Initially, ladies and gentlemen of KINAAL, I wanted to tell you that I do not believe that your question is either inappropriate or inappropriate. It's essential. They really need to enter the public debate and all these issues, without hypocrisy, without seeing these issues differently when we are in opposition, when we are in co-government or in government. And why do we have to see them with stability and plan? In order to gain the development dimension, which we are all asking and which they have lost with the previous government's agreement. So you say that this agreement is indeed adopted by the current government, the agreement signed by SYRIZA for a concession of ninety years. That's half the truth. The rest of the truth is how any Greek government signs and relates to international obligations, like this one, is easily signed, but it is very difficult to write. We know that from other cases, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, these signatures are difficult to delete. They have a special political weight. They commit the country, especially when it comes to international obligations. So this is the other half-truth, which is supported by the fact that a New Democracy government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who did not promise the Greek people that he would break with one move and abolish the SYRIZA memorandum with an article. We have not made such a promise, because we also know the correlations of powers ignored by the previous government, we also know the reality, but we know how the solutions can be found. Because, this was abstract of the SYRIZA Memorandum the sale of the property for ninety-nine years. It's the same SYRIZA memorandum. It is the epitome of the SYRIZA Memorandum in conjunction with the underdevelopment and delay of the growth rates it brought to the country, leading to a loss of 100 billion euros and a long delay in exiting the crisis. That's what SYRIZA did. That's what he did to the superstition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We cannot, therefore, at any rate, say that what does not satisfy any Greeks will be granted public property for ninety years as it pleases us. But we are well aware, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, that only by regaining credibility, strengthening the economy, improving the image of the country, but also by having a plan on how all these issues will be exploited better and indeed a development dimension, will we escape from the core of the bad agreement that the previous government has reached today and tells us that we have been providing for other means, but we have never seen any other means for this sale of its public property. These other means are called upon to find the Greek Government today. Do you know what it means to have the misfortune to be a professional farmer and to interfere a very small area that belongs to the GOD in your property, to ask to buy it to improve your exploitation? I am not talking now about 'FRAPORT'. I'm not talking about big land. I'm not talking about real estate. I'm talking about one, two, three, five acres to help you be a better farmer, a better professional. You're making an application and you're being examined in five, six, seven years. These issues to improve. These issues will bring growth. Let me give you a small example. We have the twenty-three regional airports. All operators, not Mr Loverdos and other KINAL MPs, have said that they accept both privatisations and exploitation without saying the recipe, what is the use, if not the transfer, of specific development conditions that respect the laws, which respect the environment and all these issues to lead to sustainable and sustainable development? What is the other use with specific examples? They left the airports of 'FRAPORT'. SYRIZA said he'd ratify the deal. He signed it 'after the bases and branches'. We have twenty-three regional airports today of which both are profitable and important. What about the rest? If there is an investment proposal tomorrow, will we not look at what happened with the FRAPORT to implement the plan, so that these airports, regional, the forgotten ones, can also bring growth to their regions, bring tourist traffic and jobs? I am aware of a political force here, which is clearly and unequivocally saying 'all in public' and that is the JRC. The rest of us, why are we pretending? Why are we pretending? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And most importantly, SYRIZA. Today, it emerged the great hypocrisy of SYRIZA, because the signatory minister said that in 2018, two years after the proud negotiation, ten thousand properties were assigned, of which eight thousand three hundred are subject to exceptions, that is, the agreement itself and the country's very legal framework prohibits their assignment. We were looking to see what archaeological sites were assigned? Do I remember wrong? That's exactly how it happened. I close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, I think it is similar to the rest of Parliament's representatives, saying that you, Mr. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, cannot say that we will see the issue of privatisation and so on, because you could be told by a bad guy - I am not saying it, because ten years have passed since you have ruled for yourself as a political force - that the excess is from the memorial. And the first thing you brought memos was your government. You will tell me that they were successful memos that the rest were failed does not end this debate. The question is what we are doing today. We do not rule out any instruments which bring growth, which bring benefits, improves the economy and the position of society. And we can also discuss whether you have major assets that have been transferred to the GOI, you say today that parts of state-owned enterprises and organisations should not be sold or privatised. But also sign the 'FRAPORT' and the OPAP and the right of us. And you did right. It is a setback to say that we exclude, "A" or "B", today that it brings a greater profit for the Greek economy and for the Greek people. Because Mr Tsakalotos has already said to us here: 'the other means'. And what happened in SYRIZA days? Or privatization or immovable and untreated - and therefore devalued - public property.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u108	HIDED! Nothing has been privatized by the superstition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u109	Mr. Chakatte, don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u110	But we didn't see...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u111	Mr. Buquoir, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u112	I shall conclude, in thirty seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u114	You put them in. Tell me a C.E.I.E.L.D. we put in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u115	Dear, Minister of Finance of SYRIZA, leave the TIAD alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u116	Listen to the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u117	I told you that you had reached the point where you were saying, to promise the Greek people that you canceled the concession of the airports to "FRAPORT" and you signed it, privatization and concession, the largest one that has been made, of 2 billion and sign it "after the bases and branches". So do we need other witnesses? From that point on, I would say that I really agree with Mr Tsakaloto that there must be a plan for how to make use of all these assets, and so with the use of these assets we will be released from this bad ninety-nine-year-old and controlled agreement - and from the lenders - of the Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Bucoore. Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for six minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. And so that we do not forget in this Chamber, all of you, and New Democracy and Change Movement - PASOK and SYRIZA, you have negotiated a Memorandum and signed a Memorandum, and indeed, the Change Movement - PASOK and King's King because he voted for all three Memorandums and his and the New Democracy's coexistence, as well as the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, as the New Democracy did. So, one of the prisoners, one of them. Secondly, let us leave some of these extreme verbalisms with which they have been heard here 'along with national humiliation', said the Minister, 'above national independence, about popular sovereignty'. Well, in the past few decades, where are you? Is Greece's participation in the EEC not a voluntary assignment of popular sovereignty to a supranational body? The monetary policy, which you gave it to the European Central Bank, what is it? Is it not national independence and popular sovereignty? What is Greece's participation in NATO? Isn't it the assignment of popular sovereignty and national independence voluntarily, of course? The granting of bases to the Americans and NATO is what we have just signed with New Democracy and SYRIZA the agreement negotiated by SYRIZA on the eve of bases and on new bases, which no one can control, nor the Minister of Defence, what is going on there? Isn't that a assignment of popular sovereignty and national independence? But it is voluntary because these concessions serve the interests of the bourgeoisie. From this point of view, you are all together in this policy of Greek participation in imperialist organisations. One of the prisoners. Secondly, why did these memos happen? So we don't forget. Of course, to serve a very high state debt. And this government debt service was done with attacks on people's rights: reductions in wages and pensions, tax raid, merchandise health, education, reduction in social costs. There has been a storm in all the Memorandums of Anti-Fraud Measures, where almost any employment right has been abolished, the overall embodied labour rights, both in terms of insurance and in terms of working conditions and in terms of the liberalisation of the labour market, as well as in terms of trade union rights. On its router to become the worker much cheaper to shield the competitiveness of business groups, all the ministers of all parties have signed such laws and you have voted. And the third element was in every way - this contained all three memoranda - to support the needs of business groups in a better position and more quickly to bring the capitalist recovery. And one of the tools, beyond the full-on attack on the workers, is the exploitation of public property. SYRIZA said so. One adds a little bit more. Why did the HICP or the superstition happen? To make use of public property through privatisation. For what purpose? And for debt, and secondly, to buy beer than the city sells cheap and buys expensive. This facilitates business groups at all times on their markets and on their sales. And from this point of view, therefore, to support the needs of business groups and, of course, in a number of other ways, through the logic of market liberalisation. So here are the overall results of the policies you have used. And not today, the Change Movement is asking for the U.S. government to be abolished. Asks for different operating conditions. So what do you all agree with in different words? The Minister spoke about rational use of the surplus fund in terms of public interest. The Change Movement in his question asks that it should become a tool for productive reconstruction and something similar said, and Mr. Tsakalotos in his intervention, to add even greater value to public property. In this regard, Mr Chakalotos is right to say that it does not only provide for privatisation of the surplus, it also provides for other ways of making use of public property, whether those are public-private partnerships, whether sales are privatizations or concessions. These four ways he predicts. Where are the surplus revenues going? 50%, Mr. Chakaloto, for forgetting about it, goes to serve the state debt. And the remaining 50% goes to finance investments, i.e. finance business groups. In the same logic, all three of you move. as you name this tool, whatever operating conditions you put. And we've experienced what it means to privatize public businesses. It means greater conditions for workers, intensification of work and much worse impact on the popular layers, as regards their access to the products or services of these services. We have known what it means to trade and act in private business groups, both in the health sector and in education and in waste management and in a number of other areas. We have known what it means to divest fillets, tourists and not just to business groups. Why is it going on? For their mother's soul? No, to make a profit. And we say very clearly that with these policies and these tools all you do is subdue the entire public property to the needs of business groups to shield their profits. All the rest is to love each other. And the result of this policy, of all these policies that we have experienced over the past decades and very tragically over the last decade, is very clear. What is it? It is the deterioration of the position of the people's strata, the huge opening of the scissors despite the opportunities objectively available and determined by the level of development of productive forces, by the productivity of labour from the wealthy sources present in our place, by the results of research and technology, of sciences. While all these possibilities have multiplyed, instead of working class and other popular strata experience better, they are experiencing much worse in their overwhelming majority and we will get to the point where our children are living worse than us. What's the evolution? How can you explain that? You can't give a convincing explanation. Because it's not poaching, it's not remulsions, it's not waste. Because there is a corresponding picture in the rest of the European Union and in the rest of the developed capitalist world: While the possibilities are widening, the vast majority of the people live under worse conditions. It widens the gap between the capabilities and the needs, because more and more wealth accumulates in the hands of a few. And the wealth is produced by the workers. And here the figures at world level show how the properties of a handful of billionaires are multiplied and under which conditions 70% of the world's population lives. I say this, in order to gather these things, because it is not a question of management, under which conditions we will manage a system that rotates, a system that gives birth to poverty, to wars, to unemployed people, to crisis. But this system you want to defend. So from this point of view, we say it clearly. None, but no form of management of the current crisis and the coming recovery, whenever it comes, will be in the interest of the people. Whether this management is liberal or is expansive, whatever form of management you get, the results will be very specific. The people will pay, to save the business groups, to shield the profitability of the large business groups. And from this point of view, Mr Bukkoro, the JRC is not in favour of the public. You're making a huge mistake, and I don't know if you're doing it intentionally. The JRC is across the urban state. Why, look at PPC, when it was in public as a monopoly, had signed the scandalous contract with "PESINE", to sell electricity to the French. You remember that. So the companies that were under public control, not only do they not satisfy the needs of workers and the people, but, on the contrary, facilitate the reproduction of capital. And that part plays a public sector. Of course, there are better terms historically, for workers to be able to organise and fight in public enterprises. That is why we are opposed to privatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u120	Finish, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u121	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. So what do we say? We're against the bourgeois state. We call for the overthrow of this urban state and the power of capital, so that workers can actually take the economy into their own hands, because they produce it. And we see today in the present conditions of pandemic who have been on their feet. The capitalists had no problem. The workers were the ones who kept capitalist businesses standing up. So to really take power in their hands, so that they can organise production in such a way as to satisfy popular needs rather than capitalist profitability. This needs a conflict, a rupture and a more comprehensive overthrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u122	After Mr Tsakalotos, the parliamentary representatives are talking more and more. That is good and good, but I say it for the next two Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for six minutes, with all the tolerance there was to the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President, and the tolerance you have said. I do not want to repeat once again how Greece has arrived in the present position and what parties it is due to. Obviously, it is well known that Greece was overcharged by 2009, the deficits were discharged to the heights, and of course, one should not forget that the government declared early elections at a time when it should not have done so at all, since it was after the financial crisis of 2008. It was a huge mistake that Greece paid for very expensively. In 2010, of course, PASOK led Greece to the IMF for no reason. There was absolutely no reason. Greece had a relatively high public debt, but much less than Italy today and on the other hand had a very healthy private sector, with no debts at all. So there was no reason. In 2012, of course, the New Democracy along with PASOK signed the PSI, practically bankrupt Greece, handed over its national sovereignty, and since then Greece was promised. And SYRIZA arrived in 2015, who completed the crime. He signed the third memorandum by safeguarding the two previous ones and at the same time handed everything to the lenders. All this is well known. There is no need to say it or to doubt everything that has happened. I shall table in the Minutes the obligation to establish the supergovernment, which was in the third memorandum, with the well-known law, which all parties voted on. So, since then, there has been the fund and let us not do that we do not know what has happened. I will also table the founding law of the Supreme Court, the implementation of the third memorandum, which also contains the establishment of the AIA, the sale of the fourteen airports, the separation of IPTO's NOME tenders that went bankrupt by PPC and the subsequent ones do not know what had happened and much more. I will also table the statutes of the surplus fund to be in the Minutes. This is all agreed with the third memorandum signed by New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. You don't have to say anything else. Everyone understands what all of this means and they can draw their conclusions. I just got the questions of the question of the Change Movement, as if anyone wanted to answer them. As far as the first question of the Change Movement is concerned, because the government does not renegotiate the conditions for the exploitation of public property so that it overturns the commitments made by Mr Tsipras for ninety-nine years - as if he wanted it, and I mean that he was simply forced - the answer is simple. Because that was the demand of the lenders from the third memorandum, which the three parties voted together, supposedly for the good of the country. So, logically, nothing can change from those who have agreed and signed. So the three parties that exist today, government, Civicism and Change Movement cannot change anything at all, because they are the ones that signed everything up to today in Greece, who delivered everything. The same applies to the second question concerning how the five-member board is appointed, namely the recovery of control by the State. It is shameful to try to mislead the Greeks with such tactics. The same applies to the third question concerning the return of immovable property to the public. The fact that the Change Movement has asked questions, voted against the provisions on the transfer of public property and tabled a proposal for a law is, in my view, hypocrisy. He certainly knew that the lenders would not agree, while his vote and all the rest did not have any real value, nor did the question today. His fourth question now, because there are party appointments of the children of the New Democracy, is obviously a bad joke, since this is exactly how the party client state has always functioned and operated, especially since the Transmigration, where the Change Movement as PASOK ruled for most years. So what's the question? Continuing with the fifth question, regarding the reason that the government sells profitable businesses instead of using them to create growth conditions, the answer is also obvious. Because that is what creditors want and this is the international experience of the IMF's globe raids, which in the case of Europe has been replaced by the troika and very soon by the German ESS. Didn't the PASOK - Change Movement really know when the IMF brought to Greece? Didn't any of this know? I close with the last question concerning the development of a single national strategy, the strengthening of the insurance system through the Generation Solidarity Fund, etc. Especially with regard to the Generation Solidarity Fund, what could be done when all three parties together have promised everything with our archaeological sites? Perhaps only with our energy reserves if we assume that these have not been granted. Should New Democracy and PASOK not think of it before they give land and water to the Germans with the PSI to foolishly rescue German and French banks? On the other hand, the income of the Generation Social Solidarity Fund will be dividends, rights and taxation of companies that will undertake the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Well, it seems that way. However, it has been reported that the revenue from the exploitation of hydrocarbons can reach up to EUR 150 billion, as much as 50% of the debt. But has SYRIZA already granted them to the excess in 2017, as Mrs Vultesis said, in order to close the evaluation, a report we will present in the Minutes? I hope the Undersecretary can answer it. However, to a relevant question, there was an escape as to whether it had been or would have been. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. All this must therefore be clarified, before it refers hypocritically to a generation fund, the generation that sold out and mortgaged the future of its children, our generation. For us now, for the Greek Solution, the grey zone is what has been transferred to the supermarket and with what valuation, having asked questions to the Ministry of Finance about the Hypertemia subsidiaries, the GOI and the EBRD. In particular, participations in non-listed companies of either the surplus or the general government are shown in accounting values, which have nothing to do with their market value and international accounting standards. Therefore, it is not representative and it is unacceptable to have these values in the state. So the first thing that should have happened is the valuation of all the companies in the surplus fund, so that we know what their real value is and not to be sold against thirty silvers, like many other public enterprises to date. That is why we demand from the first day that we have entered the House a proper state balance, without being heard by anyone, because it seems that nobody is really interested in our country, with figures. For example, in terms of 'Free Venizelos', 55% of which is estimated at EUR 417 million, just in the state's so-called balance sheet, for 30% there are ten interested parties with the sale price to be expected to exceed EUR 1.5 billion. It is therefore a ruthless case of undervaluation, since under this criterion 55% of the state's possession is worth up to EUR 3 billion, that is, EUR 2.5 billion more than is written in our state's books. We will once again testify and constantly submit our own tables in the Minutes with all concerning public property, if at some point the government's required importance is given instead of begging for credit. Greece is rich, has too many assets, does not manage them properly and can with these assets actually come out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately in the Memorandum of Greece, the public property is liquidated to "flats" which are thrown into the "black hole" of the debt. The ICTDE now operates as a multi-shop that has removed the “good” for divestment under colonial conditions and without any tangible benefit either to the public or to the wider private sector. In particular, the privatisations agreed with the lenders included PPC, Athens International Airport, a number of regional ports, the participation of the Greek State in ELPE, Egnatia Odos, the rest of the PPC and many port marinas. In many cases - for example, I mention the Greek and OPAP - the damage to Greek society and the Greek economy is impressive. There is no doubt that SYRIZA's conspiracy led to the mortgage of the public assets to cover the debt and the excess was indeed created to contribute to the write-down of Greece's debt by contributing resources to the realisation of our country's investment policy. Of course, no other than investment movements have seen the period since 2016. What we saw was the complete sale of public property. The New Democracy, in taking over the rule of the country, did not make any substantial changes but only made changes concerning increases in the maximum wage levels of the Presidents, the directors and the appointed advisers of public enterprises, showing that it had no intention but to dismantle the entire creation. As MERA25 the issue of the use of public property rather than the sale of public property is a key part of our political programme. We note that we are completely opposed to these privatizations - privatizations, with any revenue directed to a "black hole" of an unsustainable debt. I am sure the solution is not in any way the divestment of public property. With this in mind we have proceeded and produced a comprehensive proposal for the use of public property for the benefit of the Greek people rather than the oligarchy, domestic and international. I would just mention some of the elements of this proposal, which are: the provision of bank leave at the WIDD - a superstition, turning it into the development bank that the country really needs. This new development bank will retain what is left of public property, using it as a guarantee to raise resources that are intended to finance public investment, but also increase public property itself in cooperation on a case-by-case basis with private individuals and - secondly - private investment. All privatisations from there on should be frozen until at least the prices at which assets can be sold are recovered. Public goods such as energy, water, our beaches and others are excluded from any sale, regardless of prices and conditions. If a public asset is sold in the future, we set the following conditions: first, a minimum investment threshold from the buyer. Secondly, collective agreements and fully regulated labour rights. Thirdly, commitments for the benefit of local societies. Fourthly, maintenance of shares by the State that will go to the insurance funds with a view to their permanent support. At the same time, the shares of the new Development Bank are given to the insurance funds, thus further strengthening their capitalisation. So in the position of the superstate we now have, which sells out our country's property, we will have a clear development bank that will use it with immediate benefits to society and the citizens. It is time to show the political will to overthrow all the decisions that have promised the future of the next generations - not just ours - and to begin a new development path to improve the conditions of our lives. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has not shown any such intention. For example, I will mention the latest projects, the use of the term 'WITH', the signing - of the concession - of the Marina Alimos, the concession of the Chios Marina, the concession of the Iteas Marina, the sale of the infrastructures, the sale of the southern Aftos to Aegean Sun Investments. Unfortunately, the list goes on. Minister, at last stop looking for guilty men where they don't exist. You continue the crime of divestment and the expropriation of public property that all previous governments applied. If of course it works better for your conscience to charge it in the negotiation of the first half of 2015, it is sincerely your right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mr. Scandalides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u127	Minister, I have found you very modest and very low tons in relation to the high tons used by us, because you have just tried to say that you want to do all that we ask you to do, but you did not have much time and instead you said what you received as a government. Well, good, then. Now take the initiative that the Prime Minister should go to Europe tomorrow to raise the issue of changing the structure of the fund and we will support you with all our powers, with the right view to stopping the sale of public property, what was really a national crime in our view. As you agree on this, and since you have seen what weaknesses all this has and what projects have been put in there, and what property they do not exist and what procedures they have no relationship, which are not legitimate in being inside, that is, this sloppy work that has given everything to the control of foreigners, since you have the good will to do these and because you have not answered any of the questions we have asked, take the initiative and we are with you. We will help you achieve the restructuring of the fund. We were honoured by Mr Tsakalotos, who has always been serious about such issues, to put some dimensions in which I have no intention of responding, but I will raise two - three issues which I consider to be important, perhaps because Mr Tsakalotos was not from the outset in this country's political life to see the differences between different periods, but also in the policies of the parties. The first thing I want to say is that there is a substantial difference between the ICT and the superstition. H.I.E.L.D., Mr. Chakalote, it wasn't done to hand over the real estate. It had to be done with the perseverance of foreign privatizations, it was really a privatization fund, and there were some government agencies who were then trying hard to keep - I'm talking about the government when it was just PASOK - 33% to others and 51% to others, and then this TIADE for these businesses you came and handed over the universe of public property. It's another superstition, and it's a G.I.I.E.L.D. I would like to say something here, Minister, because it is of great importance. You said that in 2018 the fund received EUR 1.1 million. Since then, I remember that the major targets that were set were 50 billion in a five-year period - I remember exactly the figures - 50 billion to be collected from sales and so on. You see the inability of foreigners to really deal with these issues. The foreigners in the banks that entered have not done their job well and the crisis in the banking system continues as if nothing had changed at all, because the supposedly incapable Greeks could not run the banks. And you see exactly what the difference is and what the feasibility of these changes was in the final analysis. So there's more to the S.H.I.E.L.D. and more to the superstition. The superstition is complete tradition and control of all things and, as it is structured, any foreigner may decide not to approve any project related to its implementation, regardless of whether Mr Tsakalotos says that the Ministry is doing the national plan and approves, in practice, what is going on. That's the first. Secondly, I would like to refer to Mr Tsakaloto for the famous TEC. I did not understand, Mr Chakaloto, during the 1990s, the only changes were made to Greece for meritfulness and change of the old-fashioned old-fashioned system at all levels and when we arrived in 2004 we had a country that had full institutions, full of institutions. On the contrary, the Government of New Democracy has carried out hundreds of thousands of appointments and your government has made huge appointments. The ECJs have changed form. In the 1980s when we first started there was this management, which eventually led to a not-good practice. We have, however, changed it with us present and you absent or voted against these changes. So we do not accept lessons of merit and recruitment and anything else and what the CECHs were. The TECs were refined to the extent that Greece reached a high growth rate in 2004, entered Europe, EMU and the euro and could give today's battles. And I'm not the one who's going to annihilate a course of the whole post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multition process, trying to abolish all other periods to prove that the first time left did good in Greece, it didn't finally did. He didn't. Now I want to say a word about Mr. Karathanasopoulos, because I love him and he's my friend and I monitor him systematically. I want to say it because it comes to me like that. Mr Karathanasopoulos, I fully respect the logic of being here in six parties and two policies and one policy is to break down the urban state. This is a godly desire, a beautiful utopia, romantic, and the fact that you were consistent in this effort, well do and honor you. But it is impossible for us to get into such a process. And so this controversy will continue and honor each other and we will be able to do nothing. As far as the representative of the Greek Solution is concerned, I think, Minister, that you do not need to do any dentistship, the representative of the Greek Solution answered the questions. He took one, one of the questions we asked and answered instead of you for not answering. Well, I think we are in a phase where I believe that dialogue is something that we should try with all the parties in this House. I accept what Mr Chakalotos said that we must discuss the plan, bring the government a plan to discuss it. Each party from us has a progressive plan that proposes for discussion. We do not deny a debate. We have proposed specific proposals that you do not have. Well, this conversation is open and without hints and tactics, who will go with who, who will cooperate with who, who will take one, who will take one's executives, who will best do his party work at a time when the world is changing radically and when tomorrow's political system has nothing to do with what we see today in this House if you want my own experience from so many years I am in Parliament. The sooner we get out of the past, the sooner we will agree on the country's interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Panos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary time is not enough to develop all our proposals, but they have been presented by our parliamentary group both with the proposal for a law of 2018, but also on the individual issues through our action every day within and outside Parliament. Our proposals are clear, targeted, costed and aim to deal with the results and the crisis of the past decade, but also with the crisis we are experiencing, because policies can be adapted and redefined according to the requirements of the times, but in principle they must be uniform and undisturbed over time in order to achieve results. I am therefore returning to the need to redefine the country's productive model with which the use of public property can be directly linked. The country needs to renegotiate the objectives not only abroad but also internally, it needs substantial social dialogue and the activation of all the local decision-making centres from the local government agencies to the social partners with the subject of dialogue: how can the effort to repay the public debt become the driving force to leverage the economy, supply the insurance system, strengthen the primary sector that stood up in the period of the economic crisis by creating new jobs? In this way they will reverse the effects of the mortgage of public property, we will no longer be talking about selling, but about contributing to the reduction of debt and increasing GDP. To conclude now by making a reference to my place in Halkidiki, a tourist destination that will be tested this year. Sustainable economic development solutions, such as the production of the exploitation of public property, are an undeniable need for the Greek region. I therefore come from a place with rich geographical characteristics, with agricultural land, with areas which can be used for agricultural production and for tourist development. So, bend in these areas, in these untapped areas, they are a source of atomic wealth and contributions to national income. It is time for alternative political solutions and proposals that look at in the future with a social dimension, with faith in the potential of our people and everything that that implies. So do our commitments, no more regressions, no more promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u130	Thank you, too. The speech has been made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besiropoulos, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have a bitter experience of where the words of air and lionism lead. Any attempt to change either the budgetary objectives or the regulatory framework for the structure and functioning of the surplus fund shall be conditional on the full recovery of the country's credibility, which has been achieved to the fullest extent. Even if there was no crisis with the coronary, the conditions had already been created for the redefinition of primary surpluses, the issue had been raised on our own initiative. This would be done in 2020, since there were data supporting this direction, such as the highest growth rates, the low lending cost of the country, the premature repayment of the exact portion of the loan from the International Monetary Fund and the use of the profits from Greek bonds for development initiatives that led to the improvement of the sustainability parameters of the public debt. I would remind you that former European Union Finance Commissioner Moscovici on 4 October 2019, and the President of the European Central Bank Mrs Lagard on 30 October with statements in favour of reducing and changing the primary surplus targets. The current Commissioner for Finance, Mr Gendilone, did the same on 6 February. So you realise that the issue of reducing the primary surpluses was on the table, it was raised by us and it was emphatically raised, since we had and we have the credibility capital required. Ultimately, the pandemic has accelerated developments, thereby suspending the target for primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP for this year, while at the same time the calculation for the deficit is deducting expenditure on migration, but also dealing with the consequences of the pandemic. I would also remind you that the head of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) Mr Klaus Regling stated impressed by the government's determination to continue its reform programme, and welcomed the fifth enhanced Memorandum of Surveillance Report of Greece. The Government reserves the right to raise at the appropriate time the question of renegotiation of the conditions relating to the creation and operation of the surplus fund. Appropriate time is this, which is linked to a good preparation, with arguments, proposals, with the ideal context that will be linked to the upgrading of the country's image and reputation at international and European level. Appropriate time is the one, which is linked to the appropriate alliances, which the country must seek for such an operation. This does not mean that in recent months, which the New Democracy has assumed responsibility for governance, nothing has been done or done. I do not need to mention the fact that we are not the ones whom we committed by voting nr.4389/2016 on public property for ninety-nine years. But I can refer to the moves that have taken place in recent months and improve the framework, while at the same time guaranteeing the national and public interest. I will refer to the establishment of a governmental committee, which will be involved in coordinating the governance work of the ECHO. By Act of the Ministerial Council, signed by the Prime Minister, a Special Government Committee was set up, which approves the governance policies of the Governments of the Greek Participants and Property Company, that is to say the supreme. The new Committee is called the Governmental Coordination Committee for Public Enterprises. Its president is the Minister of Finance and its members are the Ministers for Development and Investment, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport and State. With the right to vote in committee, the Deputy Minister with the Prime Minister is responsible for coordinating the government work, Mr Scortsos, the Deputy Minister of Finance, responsible for fiscal policy, Mr Skeylakakis, the Secretary-General for economic policy, Mr Triantopoulos and the Secretary-General for coordination, economic and development policies of the Government Presidency, Mr Loizou. The Committee may participate with the right to vote by the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys of other Ministries responsible for a public undertaking. General secretaries, advisers and experts of the relevant ministries may also participate without the right to vote. This Committee has a say and may intervene with each of the subordinated subsidiaries, including the HICP, the EBRD and the Financial Stability Fund, as well as with the other subsidiaries of the Hydraulic Fund. The objectives of this Commission’s operation are to monitor the objectives and performance of enterprises, to approve the policies of all public enterprises controlled by the excess, to evaluate, in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State, the value of the publicly subsidised services provided by the CECE, to develop proposals and policies to expand the business activities of the CECE. As you can see, there is greater interventionism and the Greek Government has now reason and involvement in the management of the public property by the excess. From there on, I will answer the other questions you have raised in your question. With regard to the selection procedure for members of the board of senior companies, I must tell you that this is done in accordance with Article 197(4) of Law No.4389/2016 through the procedures established and followed by the candidates' committee within the framework of its competence and which bind us. With regard to the three new members of the Overseas Supervisory Board, which have recently been appointed, the best possible option has been with merit. They are executives who have professional experience in the private sector and even in the wider public sector, have led successful business initiatives and have a remarkable route to large businesses in Greece or abroad. And, of course, none of these are relatives first graded by a majority MEP, as was the case in the previous period. As far as pay is concerned. There was an adjustment to the remuneration of managers, in order to be able to attract managers from the open market with experience of their purpose and role, with the management of tens of millions of euros, but also for the sake of balancing the remuneration of the competitive environment that they dominate in the private sector. I would like to remind you that the previous government also wanted to re-evaluate the remuneration of these officials. The difference, however, is that our government has set as a criterion the increase in the remuneration of managers of remuneration through the results that companies have to present. As far as IT is concerned, what is the reality? Today, the Private Property Response Fund is only managing sixty-six properties, because all the shares related to public property are in control of the surplus fund and I am referring to businesses, such as DESFA and ELPE. I must also remind you that 66% of the CRS capital was transferred by a competition completed on 20 December 2018, from which a foreign consortium became a majority. Also, on 28 June 2019, a call for expressions of interest for the sale of 30% of shares held by TIPED at Athens International Airport SA was published on the website of TIEDD. I will only say to Mr Tsakaloto that the agreement you signed with the assignment of all public property for ninety years at the superstition had not been considered to sign it by any other Greek government. None! Such agreements shall be signed after national defeats. And you can't compare the G.I.I.D. to the superstition. The GOI was not controlled by foreigners. It did not have the whole of the public property, we had never given national property and sovereignty for ninety years. Your signature is all about this, and you're obviously proud. To listen to these Greek people, to remember and to know who you are and what you did in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, the Government intends to improve the framework for the operation of the surplus fund, but above all the framework for the use of public property in terms of national interest. This intention is expressed by specific moves, such as the operation of the Public Enterprise Coordination Committee. Other issues will be raised in due course with a gun to our commitment to reform and increase the country's credibility capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, will you use the tritology as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u134	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u135	Minister, our timely question is addressed to the government, because this is how we operate in our country by exercising parliamentary control. We have in mind you, what exactly you do or what you do not do. I refer to the New Democracy Government, firstly by commenting on an intervention by the Parliamentary representative, Mr Bukouros. 'Yes, and what do you say?' you told us by addressing us. I did not get positive criticism, where there was a reason, in the previous SYRIZA government. I mentioned Mr. Chochoro. I was missing the name of Mr. Pitsirla, with whom I've been acquainted since my eighteen years with the Law School of the University of Thessaloniki, which properly governed the CFS in the first place before becoming Minister. Exploitation relates, Mr President, to the possibility of a legal person, without customer relations, without rhetoric, dealing with his subject, as Mr Scandalides said, namely, on the basis of public revenues which are an annual source of revenue for the country. I come to the examples. I think you made a report. You made a report to the OPAP. Has it ever been studied, Mr President, whether the privatisation - which we did, started as Papandreou government and completed in the Samara government in which we participated - was profitable to the Greek State in its development? When. We have a model, a model of operation against the issue of privatisation, and we go dogmatically. We have no picture of how these actions and these moves, these policies. In an institution, a mechanism, a TEC if you like, which gave constant revenue, we were right to say 'it could give more and it is a source of revenue its privatisation', it was not checked on the way if that revenue was more, in the end, than we had when it had not been privatised. That's why I made the reference to Greek Petroleum, because, dear colleague, they have had a profitability in recent years. I am not against, but I am in favour of ad hoc evaluation and not of dogmas. You can't say that I have some assets, I'm sending them away from me to get some money, get them to the public debt, and we're done. Because if you tell me, as Mr Tsakalotos said, that there is a efficiency in the new mechanism, as they have established it, and we can also take it to investment, I would like to ask them, Mr President, this - of course, is it missing from my colleague: from 2016 to 2019, where did they make use of the public property? Give us the good examples. I don't know if they can. What do we say to you, Mr. Besyropoulou? We are not talking outside the framework, we are not talking like we are elsewhere'stop talking about what SYRIZA did, dismantle his agreements, get out of the box'. We're not saying that. We are saying things very specifically: issues of popular sovereignty, correct them. Give command to the Minister of Finance with the agreement of the three quarters of the Conference of Presidents. That's what we're saying. We say, then, now that we need it, we need the ESS - Mr Poulas was analytic - we need our pension system, we need our medical care, we need our economy with the recession, we need something and you plan there, in the post-memorandum period and with the new problems, the property of the Greek state. I say again that it is not a government policy. To close, it seems to me that the basic logic of parliamentary control has been forgotten today by the Qualified Opposition. The Spokesman of Parliament, Mr Chakalotos, former Minister of Finance, went up in Vima, mentioned nothing about government policy and referred to the Change Movement. He didn't like Mr. Scandalides' suggestion and made two remarks with evil in my own places. I do not understand, in other words, as far as the evils are concerned. First of all, let me say to him: is that what Mr. Varoufakis said in Syntagma square? What he told us today and what his government did? That's an easy argument. We're going to something harder. I said that, yes, the New Democracy broke a front that we had against the completely humiliating transfer of our property for a century to a legal person who decides its administration outside Greece; the European Commission, the ESM with the agreement of Greece. There is no way anyone will be appointed to the leadership, to the administration of this institution, unless the non-Greeks are in agreement. So, that's what he wanted us to do for the front with them? SYRIZA made a forehead with New Democracy, because he started this kind of practice and continues it for a year now New Democracy. No wickedness to us. So what does he want? What does Mr. Chakaloto want? Refusal of sins? Is that how he sees the agreement between the parties? Excuse me? It also brought up a case that could be an example of how these issues of the use of public property, which has been produced in the three years of its own governance, he did not say. What did he say here? He told us that he wanted something more serious than he was in the past and he gave himself as an example with the hundred years of granting the property of the Greek State. Well, no wicked ones, then. No funny arguments. A little serious, because that's what times require. In conclusion, I don't understand. The government's in control. We don't control one party of opposition the other. But I told him in my first speech that you must have some nerve to come here and have an opinion, when you became a government with what you said in Syntagma Square and you did what you did for the public property and you forgot about the battle that took place in February 2011 by the PASOK government. You forgot. You don't remember her, 'cause when this fight was going on, you were making fun of it from the outside, and you were messing with it better. To conclude, Minister, I do not know if you are listening, something you are snatching, something you are writing - I am addressing you in fact. Do you intend to make changes to what you have found or have no purpose? Mr President, as far as we understand it, they have no purpose. They're making a review of SYRIZA and his past, but this line will follow. This is the conclusion of the debate from this topical question. I am sorry for that because we were waiting for something hopeful for the future, some mood for change, not to get out of context. We don't oppose the joke, but we say: do you have any room to move else? Did you play it? You chased it? Did you exercise your responsibilities? Did you claim? What phase are you in? We haven't received a reply. The topical question is closed with our complete disappointment at the government's attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u136	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, any proposals put forward must be realistic and, above all, take into account the timing of the situation. The effects of the pandemic are given that they lead to a relaxation of the conditions of the Stability Pact in all the countries of the European Union for 2020. This is because everyone realises that relaunching the economy requires time to move to high growth speeds. Some of the proposals put forward are interesting, but some of them do not take into account reality. For example, in the supreme fund, as you know and mentioned, it is subject to a subsidiary and the Financial Stability Fund. By 2015, the Financial Stability Fund had a majority of the shares in banks and therefore an important asset. However, the disastrous negotiation of the SYRIZA - ANEL government has led to the third recapitalisation on burdensome terms and thereby weakening the participation of the fund in the bank's equity capital and suffering the public huge damage. There are relevant elements which are not disputed. Unfortunately, an important asset for the public was deported not on our own responsibility, but on the responsibility of the previous government. And today we are here trying to bring about a situation. Some have also been mentioned in the energy sector. Do I need to mention what happened to PPC? How did the company come to be deceived and threatened with collapse? Perhaps I should remind you that the previous New Democracy government, supported by colleagues who signed the topical question, had chosen the small PPC model, the sale of 30%, in order to secure funds that would strengthen the company's liquidity, but above all its investment programme. Then came the Tsipras government and agreed to reduce the company's market share from 95% to 50%, without any consideration. In essence, that is to say, it was granted in return for 50% of the company's customers, 50% of the revenue. I do not imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy cooperation government's plan for "little" PPC would bring five billion euros to the Greek public. That's not what the former Minister of Energy and your executive, Mr. Maniotis, say. The cancellation of this project led to a dismantling of the company, which in 2014 had a value of EUR 2,500,000, while in mid- 2019, its value had been reduced to EUR 300,000,000. At the same time, debts from EUR 1.6 billion to EUR 3.1 billion were launched. If measures were not taken during the first days of the country's governance by New Democracy, PPC would have collapsed. The gradual withdrawal of lignite plants as part of the Prime Minister's commitment to the United Nations itself to total ligniteification of the country is not just an environmental issue. Like the adoption of flexible administrative models that will allow PPC to stand against competing companies without the pathogens of the past. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must focus on how the surplus, its subsidiaries, and the whole of the public property, will pay higher revenue to the public. A plan that will deliver is the use of the ports of Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Volos, Rafina, Elefsina, Lavrios, Igoumenitsas, Corfu, Patras and Heraklion, which we will monitor all the time. The aim is also to use the real estate of the public through best practices, such as the possibility of taking advantage of state property by using the model proposals, that is to enable private investors to submit proposals themselves. I will also agree that there are strategic public enterprises that play a crucial role in economic development. But if they are to be able to do this, we must abandon ineffective practices and management models that have created deficits and debts in public enterprises, such as the examples I mentioned before. And it is assumed that the government is claiming an absolutely active role in this direction, having active participation and supervision in areas relating to the operation of the surplus fund and, above all, the results. We collect data we have best proposals and, as I have said, at the right time and in consultation with our partners, we will raise the issue of changes in the structure and operation of the surplus fund in a way that strengthens the security of the public interest, but also of the country's development perspective. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has shown that he knows how to raise matters to our partners with arguments, preparation and at the appropriate time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u138	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Question No 32/5-11-2017 is adjourned on the subject: "The Government of South Africa will continue. the same policy of SYRIZA, maintaining the mortgage on the Public Property in the Transit and the commitments it has made to lenders, or will it renegotiate the terms and conditions of its exploitation, as proposed by the Change Movement?’. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S2-commons.u139	With the consent of the House at 22.13 minutes the sitting is closed for Tuesday, May 19, 2020 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny and (b) a special plenary session on the day of remembrance of the Greek Genocide of the Sea, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
