ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval of 14-7-2020, the minutes of its PP Sessions of Tuesday 14 July 2020, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Company governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions’]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be debated today Wednesday 15 July 2020 are as follows: Question No 912/10-7-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridonas-Adoni Georgiadis. Question No 929/13-7-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara. Question No 915/12-7-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Question No 911/10-7-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. Question No 922/13-7-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodoros Livanios. Question No 932/13-7-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis. So we start with the first under number 929/13-7-2020 in the first cycle of the Achaia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "References to the Justice of the Minister of Development Adoni Georgiades". Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, good morning, and thank you very much for your presence. It is known that independence of justice is the beginning and end of the modern constitutional state. Without it, neither the principle of separation of functions nor the principle of the rule of law applies. This is also the organisational basis of our culture, which seeks to ensure the freedom of citizens, by means of mutual balance and mutual control, which comes when a power controls, restricts the other. In other words, our legal culture depends entirely on the way in which it ensures the functional and personal independence of judges. As has been pointed out, judicial independence is not the prerogative of judges, but a guarantee in favour of citizens for the rule of law and their individual freedoms and rights. The Court's independence is a constitutional authority, which is primarily for the benefit of the State and, secondly, for the protection of judges. I am not one of those who believe that the judges are or should be in the unavoidable state. In my opinion, it is not a problem to criticise judicial decisions and comment on actions by anyone. But there, which is a huge issue, is when the competent judicial bodies are being unduly affected. In our case, this influence concerns an outstanding case, such as the case of the huge 'NOVARTIS' scandal. A huge issue arises when he who comments, has the status of politician, is a leading minister, that is to say, a part of the executive authority. I think that there is a very serious issue when the Minister who is commenting and threatening the court is also subject to justice control. It goes beyond every limit in the present case the unprecedented, demeaning and threatening style used by this Minister of Agriculture, claiming that the prosecutor, who investigates him, has been in prison for many years, because he is investigating him, has violated the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The question raised, Minister, is whether any representative of the executive can, and especially when he is controlled by the judiciary, use insulting or irritating and threatening expressions. Can this behaviour lead to a breakdown of public confidence in justice and, ultimately, to its denomination? Can it turn directly against the basis of the rule of law? Minister, I would really appreciate the answer to these questions, hoping that you will choose the difficult but sensible and democratically responsible path that your position imposes, condemning the Georgian declarations and taking clear distances from the statements made by the Government representative that the Minister controlled spoke as a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u3	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I would like to be honest from the outset and to say that I did believe that, especially after the appointment of the Governing Representative, there would be no such question on the part of the Officerial Representation. I say this because I think the answer to your questions is - I think - clear and simple. Mr. Georgiadis is one of the faces, which has been through a huge adventure all over the previous period. So his ability to speak on this issue must not be linked to his ministerial position. I would say that he spoke as a citizen, who could reasonably express his personal indignation. It's been years that a case has not been cleared up. You saw where this case ended with the ten political persons and where it was finally found today. So you realize that when a man is in such a position, in a personal capacity, he can speak and say some things. Of course, all that is said and all that is said in public, obviously you know - and we all know it, we are political persons - that they are judged. However, what Mr Georgiadis has done, I think, has been done by all - in introductory words - 'intangible', following this unprecedented impediment, which was the previous period from the previous government, which led to ten political persons in an unprecedented impediment. They did so in a different way and in a different style, either by means of statements within or outside Parliament, or even by lodging complaints against judicial officers. There are such faces. I guess you know that. If you want me to tell you my opinion, I believe that it is a constitutional right for every Greek citizen to defend himself and his innocence, by any legal means he can have at his disposal. I believe that even the political persons have this right, but, as I told you earlier, the political behaviour of all of us is evaluated and judged by the citizens. Mr Colleague, my role as Minister of Justice is clearly described by the Greek Constitution. It is limited to the powers reserved for the organisation of the administration of justice and the disciplinary review of judicial officers, for the reasons specifically provided for in the law. My institutional responsibility, while respecting the principle of separation of powers, requires me to abstain from any act or declaration, which, directly or indirectly, could be directly or indirectly affected by judicial investigations that concern political persons, but of course also judicial officials. Probably, you - I justify, you were not in the previous parliamentary term - could be surprised to consider how the previous government worked towards Greek justice. So I say to you that I honor and respect the Greek judges and I really trust them. I believe that even in the case to which you have referred, all aspects of this sad story will be investigated and, of course, the responsibilities will be attributed. The Government has proved in practice that it does not intervene in justice and fully respects the separation of powers. It is a firm position, which I think one can easily see in any way, seeing what has happened over the past year and, of course, making a very simple comparison with what happened in the recent past. I will return to my denture, where we will talk about what really means interference in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I had a hope that you would not accept the point of view. Sadly, you disobeyed me. As if many personal views and attitudes have been gathered in New Democracy lately on the issue of justice that we are discussing. The Deputy Prime Minister, responsible for the government project, recently made an uncomplicated and obscure intervention in the work of the judges, commenting at a trial of universal interest, paralleling it with a theatrical performance. Unfortunately, for the New Democracy, however, the whole question of personal opinions and private behaviour have actually reached another level. We heard Georgiadis' unrelenting mouth a few days ago from his TV bomb with great relentlessness to privately characterise the case of former Minister of the New Democracy, involved in a paedophile circuit, as revealed by the legitimate recordings of the PPE. It was also a private case of paedophiles of another your great executive, a personal advisor to Mr. Mitsotakis, who was relieved of the court's limitations. That's weird, isn't it, Minister? How do both paedophiles and pedophiles accumulate in New Democracy? You need to take care of that. I assume that the sound has come to your office from the political slap of the President of the Ice Bay, Mr Joseph Tsalanides, and the prosecutor of the same Supreme Court, Mr. Paula, who, in their joint statement, have spoken of targeting a judiciary, which is counterbalanced by the democratic state. What is a disgrace to the New Democracy? The late Mr. Georgiadis said yesterday, the day before yesterday, he was ashamed of the young man arrested by the MAT attack, who his father said he entered law school, while he had to say "you embarrassed the family". In other words, the success of a candidate in the pan-Hellenic examinations, and indeed in a first-choice school, or the enthusiasm and protection provided by the New Democracy to pedophiles and collaborators of the common criminal law, such as your active MP? You said what happened in the previous government. I'll make it easy for you not to get tired. SYRIZA Ministers made comments when they commented on miserable paths of justice for the slow award. He commented on the former Prime Minister when assessing the outcome of a trial. He commented on SYRIZA's Minister when he expressed dissatisfaction about the decision to close thousands of pending tax cases. They commented when SYRIZA government officials described the rejection decision of Herianna's suspension request as a bad development. The government at the time did a comment when it denounced the decision canceling a ministerial decision on 'from the outset'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Minister, you have taken on an important portfolio for our democracy. I have one thing to tell you by paraphrasing the poet: and if you can't do anything about justice, to get better, at least try as much as you can not get successful. In this sense, I would really appreciate it if you responded to the substance. Otherwise, warm request: Do not bother to give a second answer. Let us not lead downwards and let us not lose sight of the many justice and its independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u7	Me, too. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, I'm just giving you one excuse, that you weren't a Member during the previous period. If you were and had the least chance of judging the previous government's policy and its more general attitude to justice, in no case could you speak this way today. I say this because if you consider all the things you mentioned earlier as interventions - in introductory words - in justice, you should justify a lot: the statement by the former Prime Minister that justice is an institutional obstacle, the statements by the previous government that justice is the protection of every pimp and, of course, a number of events which irreparably explain the morality and the way in which the previous government approached justice. If nothing else, there is no Minister today who comes out of the Areo Ice and premises the greatest scandal from the establishment of the Greek state. Truly, how serious can the approach to justice and justice be, when the Minister of Government comes out and states that a case under investigation and which we have seen is the biggest scandal of all times? Is it not a warning of a development in the field of justice? How, really, comfortable do you feel when ten people were targeted, scattered, just spread out for a political feasibility? In fact, most cases have been filed and logically all must have been filed. Wasn't that a lead of the previous government? But I personally have never been tempted to judge any judicial decisions or perhaps to prejudge any developments in the field of justice. These are the works and days of the previous government. Do you really have any idea how many times in the previous period all the judiciary officials have come out and talked about interventions in the field of justice? Do you know them? If you don't know them, you should be informed before you ask the question. And they're faces with names. I can testify to you. There are twenty-two points of intervention in the previous period from the previous government in the field of justice. Will anyone forget the statements that were made at all levels, when the former President of the Council of State had even been dispersed by the previous government? Will anyone forget the statements made by government officials that justice decisions are binding but not respected? Will anyone forget that there were statements or behaviours that said that this place does not rule either the diverse or the deep paradox - meaning justice - but the democratically elected governments with the will of the Greek people? Publication of the ‘SGEI’: ‘I am glad the judges do not rule.’ Do you know how many times the Union of Judges and Prosecutors came out with statements, denouncing that there was a systematic effort and an attempt to intervene in the work of judges and prosecutors? Do you know that there were issues which, to a very large extent, even touched the President or, more generally, the administration of legal associations? Do you know that there was a statement by a former government representative saying that justice is making the suspicion that he judges and weighs on a criterion beyond the legal crisis? Did all this leave justice unaffected last time? So if you want, make a comparison. And I will not say to you, of course, that there were even announcements from Koumoundour about decisions that afflict the common sense, about 'black page in the history of Greek justice', but even the fact that the former Minister of Justice asked for a repetition of the case, or even issues which, in fact, proved to have been a very great effort to influence the functioning and the area of justice from all sides. Look, it's very easy to come and say anything in this Chamber. Citizens see, judge, know very well what's going on. And they see what the previous period was, what it was, if you like, that time period some people tried to work on justice and make it a tool in the field of political controversy and who operates institutionally against the functioning of justice. I am really sorry that all these conditions created in a previous period with a reality which does not honor us anyone who has obviously created a reasonable para-state. As you know, my dear fellow Member, the para-state has nothing to do with democracy. It is a pity that democratic feelings and democratic freedoms are expressed ad hoc. When we are in the government, they are comments and all that is well and when we are in the opposition, even when people are 'complicated' and have every reason to seek their fairness or express their indignation, this is an interference in justice! It is neither a serious political approach - and I am sorry to say it - nor much more shows an ethos that has to be expressed over time in a stable and concrete way, in a way that the democratic state itself should impose on all of us. Nevertheless, I think that all that you have asked me and all that I have answered to you is in the crisis of the Greek citizens. The Greek citizens have a memory, they know, saw who they were who tried to influence an institution, such as justice, and see what this behaviour and the attitude of the current government is about justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the second debate under number 911/10-7-2020 on a topical question from the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change Mr.Evangelias Liankoulis to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Serious problems of subsistence and aged material for the Larissa Prefecture's fire services", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Mr.Nicholaos Chardalias. I would also ask the Members, as well as the ministers, to be consistent in time. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u10	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, good morning. I'm bringing you the greetings of the Larissa II-class Officials' Association of Fire Forces, of course, even, unfortunately, second-class, as I'm going to explain. But the Elassona Fire Service, which protects the National Drought, and it does not have much better, as does the Agiai Fire Service, which protects the mountainous volume of Kissavos, the Farsalon, which is an Service in red, as we say, the people, because it unfortunately has to deal with daily phenomena, such as unrelenting burning of residues of crops and fires in grassland or other lands. We have come to this House today to address you and to make our big complaints, but above all to ask for your commitments and express statements, not for your personal communications about what will come about with regard to the neural nature of the firefighting services in the prefecture. Two and a half thousand seasonal employees, not one in 2019 and 2020 in Larissa, in a very large area too, with particular issues, with many issues, with many problems, with all the engineering equipment out of place. Over-yearly, thirty-seven years and over-years count the Fire Service machinery and unfortunately, move thirty people this summer into fifty-eight empty organic positions, which you are not telling us, nor when you will make up for them, nor when you will bring us people and certainly not for this anti-nuclear period. There are papers on the ESDP. For what we are discussing, for whatever problem we are discussing, next door we are gluing an NSR: "It is part of the NSRP, it will join the NSRP, it will go to the NSRP, etc." But these cannot cure, unfortunately, Minister, the great problems which exist, they are indeed. I know that from the front line you've been diagnosed with. So you won't question these. So I expect to see how you cure them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to pay tribute to the Union of Larissa's firemen. The truth is, if I had read this announcement too, I would have asked a timely question. But the trade unions often - and I say this with great honor and respect - say half the truth. What's the reality? First of all, the distribution of each service force is determined by specific criteria. It shall not decide leadership of the Fire Corps or the State Secretary in relation to the allocation of personnel. This is all about soil morphology, the history of fires, the economic activity being pursued, but also, in general, the risk of each region. For the year 2020, the transfers were the first time carried out with the new institutional framework of 4662, which we voted here in Parliament in February, ensuring, on the one hand, a more rational and more beneficial distribution of staff. I would remind you that trade unionists, especially the Fire Corps, had raised a matter at the very first moment after decades of getting a transfer regulation. Thirty firemen leaving? The truth is in the middle. They leave twenty-four fire workers, four of whom on their own request. Of the remaining twenty, five have march sheet for 15 June, one for 1 August and seven for 31 October. A new transfer order will be issued for the remaining eleven. What do the trade unionists say? They're not saying they're coming back to Larissa with thirty two fire workers. In other words, some who in the last eight years have been permanent there at the same time as others have been around Greece because they have not been able to find themselves next to their homes, with the new mobilisation system of the transfer regulation being found at the lowest scores. It is characteristic that the vast majority of those transferred are single without children. ‘It is time for everyone to assume their little responsibility for the facts. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] What are the actual data? It is that there must be a system of law, equality and democracy that allows me to say, against all those who serve in the Fire Corps. It is no coincidence that, from the approximately eleven fire extinguishers' associations we have in the wider area, just one of them was found to make this complaint virtually non-realistic. The truth, then, is that twenty - four employees are leaving and thirty - two employees are coming. So, we have supernumerous eight in Larissa that together with the fifty-two Trikala, supernumerous, and the forty-three Cardits, super-numerous, make Thessaly one of the most secure operational regions in Greece. That's the reality. We're trying to streamline the transfer system, not to have children and paradoxes. No one is involved in this process. Through this process, apparently, some have had to leave to serve outside their territory, away from their families for one, two years, as have the rest of their colleagues who return who are seven and eight and nine years away from their families. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] So the question is 'weak business capacity in Larissa?', I would like to reply to you: in no case. Larissa's safe. I don't know who's talking about fifty-eight organics. Obviously the fifty-eight organics that they say are the fifty-eight supernumerals that exist, because at the moment - I will also give you the relevant data - there is not a single gap in the wider region of Thessaly. At the same time, be careful, we've reduced the supernumerals. What for? To succeed for the first time in decades no island of the country has had a vacant firefighter position. This is the first time the anti-nuclear period began, having covered all the gaps in all the islands, all over Greece. I'm on equipment. I won't hide. In fact, the Fire Corps has an old equipment. And these are responsibilities that let me not look for them in this one year of new governance which, if anything, the issue of civil protection is our immediate priority. But it's not thirty-seven years old, all Larissa's vehicles. I'll tell you very specific things. Fifteen vehicles are more than thirty years old. Half the vehicles are 20 years old. 31% of vehicles are thirty years old. And just this 18% is actually over thirty years old. I'm happy about that? No way. I want to be clear. What we are doing for this is obviously not about wishing, it is about specific issues that you will allow me to develop in my second language so as not to misuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u13	You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u14	I, Minister, am classics, you know, literature, philosophies and so on. But in the arithmetic something I did. I didn't want geometry much. The way you've told us, we're gonna lose the account, and you're also popular, but you've got points when you said that. You questioned the trade unionists and said they were telling half the truth. Half-fakes, that's! I'll take those greetings, if you want! But I'm going to the most important thing. Fifty-eight organic posts empty according to the organisational schedule of operation of the service. I wouldn't ask a timely question of no seriousness. Twenty-four employees leave willingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u15	Four of their will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u16	Don't put them on them. Did I tell you if they want with their own will or without their will? The service is a service. Whether by will or without will, they leave. So we put and write. Twenty-four leave us, thirty-two come to us, eight, then, the number left. If you remove 58 out of 58, 8, there's 50 blanks left. You should also tell us in your dentext - I expect it - what comes, '32', when it comes. Is he coming tomorrow, coming in July, coming in August, or is he coming good December, and merry Christmas? Secondly, along with Trikala, Karditsa and so on, I have brought you special greetings from Olympus, from Kissavos, from Agia. We're not a county whatever. You know that. We are a rich and special prefecture with various geomorphological elements that make life difficult for firefighting. That's true. So this is where we need people. Our neighbors are good and will cooperate in case - God forbid! - destruction, but we want a strong body, a body that can be self-sufficient and able to respond to the facts. One last thing: For the equipment you said it yourself. I don't have to say anything. Most are thirty-seven years and over. It's true, and you're not being blamed. To be fair and moral, it is not a problem of the last period. It's a problem of many government periods. But, Minister, I would like to conclude by saying this: you know, the Greek complaint and the patronage are two big things. Politics is life itself - we say - a part of it that works. So when these two elements coexist with an organization and a service, they produce miracles. There's a complaint about firefighters. You have seen the latest communications, which is not a matter of time-consuming questions, but of giving the opportunity to say that too. People complain that they are currently at airports. They have been recruited in the pandemic too to deal with the COVID -19 and I was reading something I will be tabling in the Minutes. I read the other day their own personal reports saying something about getting rid of passengers from planes, that there's a crowded buses that don't get fired, that they're with a robe over the service uniform that leaves parts of the body uncovered, with nylon boot covers, with a hat and a mask. You know it, you saw it. Now I'll tell you, Mr. Hardalia, where are you ever present and everything pays? But these people with the honorable and the complaint together are directed before you and say that they are not the firefighters with the backgammon in the hand. It has long been, decades ago, this situation has changed - if it ever existed in reality. They're first-line people. That's how they want you to treat them, that's what we ask. Larissa, the district, our county needs. So we want you to tell us in this regard about the gaps, about the people you told us that they are coming, that they are coming back thirty-two. I only want to hear from you is when these thirty two come and when you're renewing the equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u18	As occasionally leaving, so occasionally they come. What's the logic? There will be no gaps in our operational capacity in Larissa, and that will happen. Listen, I'm saying it with great appreciation. You know that I personally appreciate you and I know that any question you ask is because of your real interest in your region. But operational planning cannot function in terms of autonomous democracies. What do I mean? Larissa is not separated from the general business plan of Thessaly. So the real criteria play a part in the decisions we make. The criteria are the extent of the fires and the type of fires we have as a history. So, we've had big forest fires in Larissa for the last five years? It's a question. The vast majority of the fires can concern crop residues? That's another question. All of this plays a role in the design we're planning. I understand the peculiarities of each region, but our responsibility and especially of the Headquarters of the Fire Corps is to make a comprehensive, effective design that, at the time of the crisis, will not have anything to do with what is happening in Larissa. We get the worst cases scannarios and see if we have parallel fires in the wider area, what possibilities we have. Believe me, in recent years, the Fire Corps, like the officials of the Fire Corps themselves, have said and the pan-Hellenic associations have testified that it has not been more operational. Because it is not only the three heavy-duty helicopters - one in Tanagra even comes to serve the needs along with the Anchialus of the wider region of Thessaly - but at the same time it is the reinforcement of the scales and means. You'll keep something, because what you're saying is based. Over the years there has been a general approach to equipment issues, based on the doctrine of the wishing. I don't expect any NSAs. One year we have the responsibility of the Fire Corps, believe me, Ms. Congressman, every day we are with the officers, the officers, the officers of the Fire Corps. You know that I have personally travelled to every corner of Greece in order to be able to look at them in the eye, to be able to get from them their agony, concern, what really needs to be done to get the Fire Corps moving. See where the Fire Corps was a year ago. See where it is today at prestige level. Unfortunately, some difficult situations have brought the Fire Corps back to consciousness if you also want to think about the Greek people, but the firefighter is very high in consciousness for a very basic reason: for every day he fights for human life, every day he fights for human property, every day he fights for the natural environment, and every day he fights for three superior constitutional values that serve them zealously. As a political leader, I must also say that I am very proud to have the responsibility of this House. But this responsibility is not exhausted in references. Look at what's been happening over the last few years. We have passed a legal framework which can provide us with a national mechanism. Already the Political Protection and the Firefighting Body, the Headquarters, acquires its own roof, so that there is no surprising phenomenon in Greece for the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Katechaki, elsewhere the General Secretariat services, Evangelistia, elsewhere the Business Center, Rizario in Chalandri and elsewhere the Firefighting Headquarters in Murouse. By September we will all be together in a building so that operationally we can give answers to everything that may happen and not just fires. It is about the big range - if you want - of risks and problems that the Fire Corps is coming to face. Closed up, I'd like to make a report on the equipment. The evaluation of the proposal we have made at the European Investment Bank is finalised in the next 24 hours. It concerns a large sum which firefighters themselves have recorded through their DPRK and the regions, and which is about EUR 120 million equipment, so that within the next five years all the equipment that is over a decade to be renewed and finally the Fire Service has both the means and the tools to do its job better. I don't want to say anything more. I prefer to speak with specific acts, but within the next 24 hours I think we will see something that will be very important for the Fire Service and which will be announced. Believe me, it will be an intersection for the fire department's data and we will overcome the logic of wishing. We will come to the logic of action and the logic of the result. I want you to judge us from the results. I want you to judge us from the collective effort. I want you to judge us from the daily, hard work we do throughout Greece, civil protection and our main service arm, our Fire Service.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. I must remind you that time is two minutes for the question by the honourable Member and three minutes for both the honourable Member's and his second-guess. I would ask that we keep the time, because we don't have time for the Chamber. We continue with the third under No 922/13-7-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Sixty-six employees in the Municipality of Agia Varvaras". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Your Honor, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Undersecretary, in April 2020 the Athens Monomele Court of First Instance justified the twenty-six workers in the social services of the Municipality of Agia Varvara, deciding that they meet fixed needs and must be permanently permanent. They are workers in social services: nurses, social workers, nurses and assistants, assistant nurses for social protection, social care professionals, cleaners and drivers. This is a matter of constant social needs in a municipality with great social needs. The municipality objected to the procedure for a very simple reason, Minister. Since 2010, central self-resources have fallen by 60%. At the moment for the categories of workers we have the seventeen workers employed in nursery stations funded by the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government by the NRP. They shall be financed regardless of whether employment is dependent or permanent. We have five employees employed by the 'House Help' programme. There is a permanent appropriation and financing from the generation solidarity insurance fund and a contribution of pensioners' solidarity. We also have four workers at the daily care centre of the elderly who should indeed be covered exclusively by the municipality's budget. The cost is estimated at about 60 to 70 thousand euros. That is why, Mr Secretary-General, I would like you to commit that this cost can be covered by the central administration, that this increase in municipal aid can be made. At EUR 2.5 million, that is to say, to add these EUR 70,000 so that these simulations which are necessary for the municipality and the region can be made. You must also commit - and I conclude here, Madam President - that this monumental disaster will finally be restored for the municipalities and that self-interested central resources will be gradually restored to the municipalities which, as I said, have been reduced by 60%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arsenis, there are two different things in your question. The first question, if I understood correctly, is why the municipality appealed to the judgment of the Athens Court of First Instance. It's the right of each municipality to appeal, to appeal. In fact, in his reply to today's debate, the Municipality of Agia Varvara leaves various issues open to legal decision-making because he participated in a person who was related to a worker. It is not here and it is not a matter of the Ministry to judge legality either. There are independent agencies, which control the legitimacy of decisions. So the workers you mentioned are twenty-six. They are contractors often who were in co-financed projects most. We have said many times that as long as the co-financing programmes run, contracts can be extended. With the help of the Minister of Development present, Mr Georgiadis, we have guaranteed for at least the next few years the programmes to be financed, in particular the harmonisation of family life covering the vouchers of children's stations. For "Help at Home" a competition is under way for the two thousand permanent and not indefinite staff. The Municipality of Agia Varvaras has been requested and regularly participated in the notice of staff who has asked to work. Therefore, the tender will soon be completed and will have permanent posts. As far as the financing of central independent resources is concerned, I would like to say that central self-resources are a function of state revenue. Depends on real estate tax, ENVY, depends on VAT and depends on income tax. Every year, therefore, this amount comes out, which in recent years has remained stable and has a small increase. It is indeed much lower than they used to get in 2008 or 2009, but the conditions have changed, with regard to the cost side of the municipalities, particularly as regards wage costs, but also to the operation of the municipalities. What we are going to do in the context of the new self-government code, which we expect will come in the autumn for consultation and then a vote from the House, is in cooperation with all the mayors of Greece to create a new system of self-government financing, more equitablely shared, so that they can meet the new challenges they have. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This government has shown its sensitivity. He immediately proceeded the tender for the staff at "Help at Home". I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina For the new year, it will continue to be extended to cover and families of civil servants and to cover the highest income criteria in order to increase the base on which it benefits. And it's a fact that we're going to continue this way. The TATs were found at the front line of the coronary treatment. And I think that, in agreement with the government with the government, we will also open up new ways of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, you are aware of the issues of self-government and not just because you are a State Secretary, you know it beforehand. I think it was not right to answer that you gave. I do not think you, which know about the issues, are simply reducing public funds, when we know very well that at the moment a number of taxes have been cut, which have been going and supplementing the local government fund, which has been used for other uses. So it's not that revenues were only reduced, but that they were used for other purposes. And you must be courageous to say that. Now, because people hear 'conventional' and think they were hired the other day, we are talking about people who have been working there over eighteen years, Mr. Undersecretary. And right now what are you telling us? First, the municipality explains its financial weakness. We ask you to be able to support this sum of EUR 60,000 to EUR 70,000 for the municipality. Is it really so hard to commit to that? We're talking about twenty-six workers, Mr. Undersecretary. What's the absurdity here? The rest of the workers will probably be covered by programmes that have been guaranteed regardless of whether they are permanent or partly employed or contracted, so here we have a guarantee for the rest of the workers. But for those four who are concerned there is this economic gap. We call on you to cover this issue so that these people can be recruited and this process ends, if you like, so that twenty-seven families will not be found on the road, because that is what we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u25	Come on, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u26	Let's get something straight. The appeal brought by the municipality is obviously not intended to dismiss them. It's the municipality's right to decide whether to appeal. The current municipal authority has decided to appeal for specific reasons, which many have mentioned - from what I have read - and the mayor. And I think it's a pure right to self-government whether or not to appeal. I would point out that, in addition to Law 4635, which was passed in October 2019, the municipality was given the opportunity to resign in cases which regulate the status of the employment relationship between the municipality and the worker. So it is the power of self-government to decide whether they want or not. So the appeal was brought because the municipality considered that in case... For "Help at Home" we said the competition is running. The new staff will be here soon. In fact, with an amendment that we will bring in the next few days, the current contracts will be extended until 31/12-2020 in order to complete the tender of permanent staff. I would also remind you that 'Help at home' has a central role - in the management of the pandemic, it did provide an important task - and this was recognised, in practice, by the process of permanentisation - to be fair - and by the previous government. Continuing, however, and further updating the programme, I would remind you that the programme is pending by adopting a ministerial decision in the coming weeks to provide home diagnostic examinations for elderly people in mountains and islands, the "Prevention at Home" programme which is complementary to "Help at home". And I think that, in particular, with regard to social policy and the 'Help at Home', there has been a breakthrough, which was indeed decades ago, and which will proceed towards a definitive solution. We are constantly looking at and we are in consultation with all the actors and on the harmonization programme, the vouchers of children's stations. At the moment, the programme has guaranteed funding for the coming years. And not just that, it's expanding. This also enables contracts to be extended and those of their own, since co-financed companies allow for the possibility of deviating from the fixed system for fixed-term contracts. In conclusion, with regard to the extra funding requested by the Municipality of Agia Barbara, there is no provision, because the CFPs are defined by a decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Finance as a whole, which is specified as a quota to the municipality on the basis of the proposal of the CEDEFOP. At the moment, there has been no request to change the way in which the CAP is calculated for the coming year and therefore there is no possibility of additional funding. Because there were also cases of municipalities who were charged with unreasonable operating costs due to these limitations also to the funding. If such a request comes from the CEDEFOP, we will consider it, as we consider all the CEDEFOP's requests and we will see the best possible for all the cases of the municipalities in the country. What is certain is that we are going to go to a new system for calculating the CAP, which is fairer, a system which will also give the municipalities in the region the opportunity but also urban municipalities the necessary resources to exercise their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u27	I too, Minister. Next, the fifth under number 915/12-7-2020 is a topical question for the first cycle of the Piraeus II piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadamas, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "In the Peeraikos continues the mess despite the temporary indictment to suspend the works from the S.A.". In this timely question will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis. The honourable Member has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, hundreds of residents, institutions and movements, seeing that in the midst of a pandemic the mess and also the dredging in the expansion of the additional cruise projectors have appealed to the Council of State, among other instruments that they have used, by achieving the S.A. version. on 11 June of a decision temporarily suspending all extensions within the port, which were initiated - to recall - in 2019 by the decision of the then Secretary-General of Port Policy, which involved dredging from one and the rejection of the seabeds, as set out by a decision of the Ministry of Environment Policy Director-General of the Ministry of Environment. Despite the initial validity of the suspension until the debate of the request - probably within the month we are spending - and until the October trial, in order to finalise the legality of the contested administrative acts, a few days later, on 29 June, the E part of the EBRD. It made a detailed decision, noting that the interim order concerned only dredgings. Therefore, the mess continues properly. In view of the above and following resolutions tabled by many bodies, including the PENEN, to stop environmental crime in the Pierrate, the questions I have put to you, Minister, are the following: Firstly, what took place and the attitude changed from the original decision and we led to the clarification of the S.H.E.L.D.'s.Huh? Are there any studies showing that the continuation of the bazama is well founded? Secondly, is the Ministry aware, and so are you, of this clarification decision and - if you know - who asked for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really find it hard to understand why my colleague, in the course of the parliamentary procedure, is asking a question for a decision by the Council of State. It is well known that we are not intervening and no one has the right to intervene in the work of the courts. Now, because the Council of State has made a clear decision, it is something that it obviously knows the same. Apparently, he thought it was necessary. So I have nothing more to add to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is known that the S.H.E. really is. it has the right and the opportunity to clarify a decision, as has been done in this particular case. But obviously, it made such a decision because it is likely that, as we all see, some have been disturbed. Except, in this particular case, the problem is that in general, the sinking and the messing are two interconnected jobs, without the sinking, which delimit the space, the ball, the inert materials, that is, they are thrown into luck and create a hill within the sea, as in the case of the Pieraic, where a balm of unknown origin and cubics are carried. According to dwarf testimony on 13-7, the balls that have been thrown in the area are only two meters away from the surface, which may cause problems at the entrance of the port. It is worth noting that the Port Authority, which is your responsibility, Minister, when asked if it knows anything, said that it has only consignment cards and does not know much more about the balls that are rejected. Minister, I would really like to know if you have the relevant document from the Ministry of Finance in your hands to confirm that the company that is going through the hammering has paid the financial compensation provided for in Article 14 of Law No 2971/2001. At the same time, given that the sinking and smuggling are interconnected, we wonder why one was banned and not the other and how this affects the environment. We probably wonder rhetorically. Minister, the task of extending the cruise pier was not initiated by you. I don't charge you that. You just continue the work of your predecessor and SYRIZA. We, as a PARTA25, have taken a clear position on the extension, but also on the responsibilities that are burdening all sides. We cannot overlook how every day the residents of Piraeus see the Pirates' boom going on, the quality of their lives changing to the worst and feel they have been left alone and have been sacrificed to the altar of the private interests of the parasitic domestic and non-oligarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, there is no debate in this Chamber. It is obvious that the Government respects the judgments of all courts, much more so the Council of State. What I want to make clear is, however, that we have just been notified of the decision of the Council of State of 11 June 2020 immediately notified to the Central Port Authority of Piraeus and the Central Port Authority of Piraeus has stopped all the work of the project. Subsequently, the ban on the execution of operations was reached by the clarification decision of 29 June 2020, with the exception of dredging and the disposal of dredgings, work for which the ban continues to exist. However, I would like to clarify the following: When the former Secretary-General of Ports, Port Policy and Maritime Investment was signed by SYRIZA, Mr Lambridis, the implementation of this project, i.e. the extension of the passenger port to Piraeus, he included all the work of the project, obviously including the seabeds, which are part of the material work of the whole project. So we cannot go into this and obviously do not answer or comment on this decision of the CSCE. In any case, however, what I want to make clear is that the Government fully respects the decisions of the courts, much more than the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too, Minister. We go to the fourth under number 912/10-7-2020 on the first question of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vasiliou Villardou, to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject of the decision of the European Supreme Court to claim compensation from the 'Diselgate' scandal. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon Georgiadis. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, thank you very much for the immediate response. We are now returning to the issue of 'Diselgate', due to new major developments, which we will continue to do, since it is fair and legitimate for us to claim compensation. I would remind you again that this scandal concerns the deception of governments and consumers around the world initially from 'VOLKSWAGEN', but ultimately from the whole of the German car industry. It is a matter of concern, firstly, the shame of these companies because of the sale of cars at higher prices and, secondly, tax evasion due to lower charges for cars with fewer pollutants. This is also an environmental issue that your Government seems to be interested in. In any case, you have told us in your reply - correct me if I am wrong - that there is no possibility of claiming because, firstly, in Greek legislation consumers have not been deceived and, secondly, at European level, VOLKSWAGEN's cars appear environmentally friendly despite fraud. I would remind you that it is about installing a software that has misleaded the exhaust emissions of their cars. However, recently the Supreme Court of the European Union decided, following a question from Austrian courts, that it should not be bound by the state where the consumer is located to promote his request, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. This is considered to open the way for mass claims in each country, recalling that at consumer level, a Greek court has already tried EUR 5,200 per owner, as we had tabled in the Minutes. Therefore, with some twenty-four thousand forty-five cars, according to data from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which we also submitted in the Minutes last time, can claim about EUR 106 million. Our questions here are as follows: First, are you going to take steps to inform and facilitate Greek consumers in claiming compensation from the German car industry as a whole? Perhaps by legislation, that is to say, one of the many things you are tabling in this House? Or should they participate in claims in foreign courts, as in the case of the Bistom? Secondly, what measures have you taken or will you take so that the deception of consumers and the public by such companies is not repeated? If possible, I would like a more technological response and not a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u37	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Colleague, I'm glad you're insisting. Parliament has a great deal of interest and it is nice, but unfortunately, I do not think we speak the same language in this matter. I read you the answer that the European Commission gave us in April, i.e. in the middle of a coronary. The answer was given by Mrs Benassis, Head of Unit E3 Consumer Informer. Her answer was to me, following your question: 'It is not clear to us - that is to say to the European authorities - what the legal basis of the European Union invoked by the Greek Parliament would allow the Greek Government or its administration to demand compensation from VOLKSWAGEN in the case of the Dieselgate scandal. Indeed, as far as we know, there is neither such a law under European Union legislation on consumer protection nor under the legislation on the type-approval of the car. In the absence of this information, we can observe that Greek governments or local administrations can use their existing administrative powers to put an end to infringement of the Consumer Protection Act or of the type-approval legislation on a case-by-case basis. A number of national provisions may allow such administrations or environmental administrations to claim compensation directly or to bring an action against the company in civil, commercial or criminal proceedings, depending on the category of the offence in Greece and claim compensation for the consumers concerned for the damage caused.’ I think I have explained to you last time - and I imagine that the papers I had submitted by the General Secretariat of the Consumers, you have them, I have not brought them back to testify for the second time - that according to Greek law there is no infringement. Since there is no infringement, there is no way for the State to claim compensation. This could be done if we anticipated in our legislation that we did not anticipate - the specific limit of pollutant, which was laid down by American legislation. VOLKSWAGEN, not for European countries or at least for Greece, put the software in place for American legislation. Since at no point in our legislation, at any point in our advertising 'VOLKSWAGEN' in Greece, no consumer in Greece can buy a car on the basis of this particular pollutant, since nowhere was mentioned, there is no possibility of compensation from our service. Does each consumer have the right to turn legal proceedings? Of course he does. Who's depriving him of it? Anyone who wants to go to the court to "VOLKSWAGEN" and claim what he thinks. We don't say that someone should go or not go. His constitutional right is to go. Even if we were to vote today on a law that we would introduce this crime, today that we are introducing this crime no longer exists. Because the "VOLKSWAGEN" has removed the software, after the scandal has been revealed in the United States, and has corrected the pollutants. A law that is passed today and sets out a crime for past years, that is obviously what you know is not there. So I don't understand why you're constantly coming back to the state. As far as each individual citizen is concerned, let everyone do what they think in Greece, in Europe, in Rome, in Brussels, in Beijing, where they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u39	Me too, Minister. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u40	I will come back to the question of the state, because in this case, as regards private individuals, I told you the decision of the Austrian court. There is a decision of the Polish court and similar claims. There is also a Greek court ruling. So it is right for the Greeks to be informed that they can claim this kind of money and that is why we insist. Now, regarding the side of the state, in Greece there is no claim at state level for compensation. However, in a recent study by the European Court of Auditors we delivered to you last time, and also in a ECA text - we will present both of them again, to see it again - the country is criticised for not imposing fines - and I read it precisely - while disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against it, from at least the document, as well as against the Czech Republic and Lithuania. Recently you have proposed grants amounting to EUR 100 million for the purchase of electric cars, of which they are mainly available German and several VOLKSWAGEN. These 100 million are about as much as we have calculated the cost for Dieselgate, based on the decision of the first court, although we believe that much more can be claimed. We, of course, suggested, with a timely question to the Ministry of Energy, that they should be given instead of subsidies, incentives, so that they can build electric cars in Greece. You have also mentioned that you are trying to bring a "VOLKSWAGEN" factory to Greece. So could it be put in this context, that is to say, to finance the compensation that the Greek State is entitled to produce "VOLKSWAGEN" in Greece? It's a question. You could have an opposite view. Our country has gone bankrupt and will go bankrupt again and again because of its mistaken economic model, which because it is pre-cyclical - we have stressed it several times - is the first one that collapses and is even flawed when the legal global crises are caused. Every ten years we have a crisis. It is therefore urgent to change the model by promoting the primary sector, processing and industry, and perhaps the subject of 'VOLKSWAGEN' in conjunction with the packages to combat the COVID crisis -19 is a great opportunity, in my view. We must note, however, that on the same day that Dieselgate's question was discussed by us, you have answered us another question about the country's economic model. There we had requested the production of supplies for COVID -19 in Greece, while you replied that it is difficult to build masks in our country. But a few days later a businessman in Larissa - you know - proved it possible, and this could have been made compulsory, without any question of imports. It can therefore be seen that we can and must review our views on the potential of our economy. Our questions here are as follows: First, have you read the study of the Court of Auditors that we submitted to you in the Minutes? Were we convinced that we were right about our own opinions that we submitted to you last time? What will you do in relation to the intention of the European Union to initiate procedures against our country for not claiming compensation? Secondly, have you considered claiming, instead of paying compensation, the payment by VOLKSWAGEN of the subsidies on electric cars? It's probably a possibility. Perhaps the cogeneration of electric cars in Greece? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u42	Let's go first to the Court of Auditors' study. At no point does this study mean that it starts proceedings against our country in any way. That's not what he's saying. Greece and the Czech Republic are generally criticised for not claiming compensation. This does not mean opening a procedure against Greece. It is an encouragement to change our legislation for the future, not for the past. So I'm rejoining. If we went as a state to the courts of VOLKSWAGEN in Greece, we would lose. Why would we lose? Because retrospectively back legislation does not exist in the Western world since ancient Athens and Rome. I don't understand why you insist. If we had foreseen in our legislation, I would say again, this particular pollutant and VOLKSWAGEN had overcome it in fraudulent ways in Greece, we would have a compensation base. We had not foreseen this in our legislation. So if we go to court, all the judge will do will be to read what law VOLKSWAGEN violated, nobody. Hello! I don't know how I can tell you more simply. I'm not going to go to court to lose either. I have to tell you, especially with the German automotive industry, that the Greek State recently lost a very large trial of 100 million, where we went to two large German automotive companies, on the basis of Greek tax law, for the purpose of concealing taxes, as you may know, and the Greek courts also justified the German automotive industry and forced the public to pay 100 million. So, is that what you want us to do all the time? When we go to court, we go to win, we don't go to show. So I say to you: all the legal services of the state say the same. There is no crime in Greece. It's over. Don't keep asking me the same question. Now we're going to the next one you said. First of all, we are trying to bring the VOLKSWAGEN plant to Greece. That was a first-time conversation that took place. I have to tell you that VOLKSWAGEN has decided to cancel its factory in Turkey and does not seem to be doing this type of factory. After all, today when we are talking about gasoline production plants it seems that it is the past and not the future. As far as your idea of motivating you to build a power plant in Greece is concerned, I do not hide from you that this is something that we have been dealing with both the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of the Environment and we have had an initial debate with big companies and VOLKSWAGEN - not just with VolksWAGEN - which deal with this issue, to see our chances. We have to be realistic in this life. At the moment, the chances of building such a factory in Greece are almost zero. The reason is that the Greek market is too small in electric cars. No one builds a factory in a country with a zero internal market. So what did VOLKSWAGEN and TESLA and BMW say to us? We've all talked to each other, and we've all been told the same thing. First you will acquire a critical mass of electric cars in Greece, so that then it makes sense for an investor to build a factory to sell cars, spare parts, to have a service, to put an electrical rater and everything else. When you have a hundred electric cars all over Greece, you can't come to make a factory in Greece. So what we did with the Ministry of the Environment bill is the first step to build Greece, not of course tomorrow, because it will not take place in one day, but at a depth of three to four years, the right environment in Greece, to claim after a factory. To tell you more simply, the 'TESLA' wanted to make an electric car factory, as you know, across Europe. Where did he finally do it? In Germany he did. Theoretically, it would be the last country to go because it has very great competition from the domestic German car industry. And yet, at the end of the day, she preferred to go to Germany, despite the motives given to her by other countries to do her factory in other European countries - and I told you that we were in this debate - because Germany is the only country that has built a critical mass of consumers of electric cars. So don't put the cart in front of the horse. The horse always goes in front of the cart. First, we will create the right environment for electric cars in Greece, and that is what our Government does, and then we will claim with claims and production of electric cars in Greece, because it is not backwards. That's why. As I told you, and we've been working on this and we've been working on it. Indeed, electric mobilization is the future. I encourage consumers to go to the electric car. I called as a MP for an electric car. How happy I am, ladies and gentlemen, is not said. I would never go back to gas. I like it so much. I've loved it. So we're all going to make a little revolution in our everyday life, which is also environmentally friendly, take the step and be able to claim production. As for the change in the production model you have said, of course, that is why we are working and that is what we want to do. I agree with you. The installation of large industrial units in Greece is a major issue. Obviously - to close with the question - the possible EUR 100 million of the compensation you calculate at a possible plant, you know it's nothing. If VOLKSWAGEN were to invest, which would be a decade-long investment, it would be EUR 8 billion, i.e. EUR 8,000 million. Come on, let me tell you to do the 100 million euros to us. But it is not what will judge the investment. It's a very small amount to judge such an investment. So, to come back, we do it properly, structured, programmed, so that we can succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u43	Me too, Minister. We move on to the debate of the first under number 932/13-7-2020 on the second time question by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Hercules Movement of Change, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'What are the measures taken by the Government to avoid further collapse of the olive oil market'. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Lightning Arabaji. Congressman Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Undersecretary, olive cultivation in Greece over the last three years has been facing serious problems. Especially the last year, for the whole country and for Crete most, was a catastrophic year, since we had a combination of problems arising from the incomplete plant protection and a combination of new risks. Result? Lower olive oil prices, although there were relatively smaller quantities. At the moment, three months before the new olive-growing season begins, we have considerable stocks in the stores of businesses, cooperatives and even producers. It is estimated that about 1/3 of a good year of production, i.e. about fifty to fifty - five thousand tonnes, are in our warehouses. What is expected to happen is that there are issues about the disposal of this product, since every year we had tourism, the focus that absorbed a significant quantity, and so we came in the autumn to have decongested too much of what was accumulated. The question, then, is clear: What measures will you take in order to dismantle the market from the supply, which is there, and what institutional tools will you use, in order to strengthen olive cultivation, to support the producer and to get into a new good year? For example, I mention the storage measures provided for by the European Union and specific regulation, and of course, programmes and actions for placing the product on weak social groups and on purposes, which can also serve to support the product and support the socially weak families and layers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleagues, first of all, I say that you are breaking open doors in connection with the interest of the political leadership of the olive oil market. You know that the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vorides, is in constant dialogue with the representatives of the sector and has certainly visited Crete, with a specific agenda for olive oil. As you referred to the storage measure, Mr Colleague, let us just say that this measure, as you will well know, has already been closed since 25 February 2020, in accordance with Implementing Regulation 1882/2019. In any case, you know that the political leadership and the Minister, Mr Vorides, are in constant and constructive dialogue with all the productive players. In this regard, Mr President, the representatives of the collective organizations and the administration of the National Interbranch Olive Oil decided in the discussions that took place at the Ministry that the storage measure could not contribute to our country, and that is why it actually captures, for six months - and, indeed, in one of the best periods of demand, that of the Catholic Easter - the product to deliver, that is to say, artificial demand. Storage needs large quantities. It would be of great interest especially to the second quality olive oil, for example. The artificial shortage, with storage, creates an overall increase in demand and the lampante, but also of others. You know that we, as a country, mainly have extra vigin and vigin oil, i.e. higher olive oils. Of course this involves an increase in the acidity of this olive oil which is stored, so a reduction in the quality of our good oils - vigin and extra vigin - have already been dealing with price issues. Mr. Comrade, Spain has used the storage measure. He stored a hundred and sixty thousand tonnes in a production of 1.7 million tonnes as a Spanish market and the price did not change. In other words, there is an example that the measure has not worked. Now, what are we doing to deal with this difficult year for olive oil and to deal with the problems that you have faced in Crete by reducing the quantity and, of course, reducing the quality of the products of which the torch is one? We sought, as you know, directly reflexively on the issue of organising the 'Daconiety 2020' programme and we have taken special measures for Crete. We issued a very timely version, Mr President, on 10-1-2020, of the allocation of about EUR 21 million across the country and in consultation with the Ministry of Interior we preferred another EUR 2 million for Crete, namely EUR 10 million for Crete. We approved, on 18-32020, the recruitment of nine hundred forty as temporary staff to meet the seasonal needs of the program. We unblocked very early, on 11-32020, with an amendment to the agricultural cooperative bill, the possibility of temporary shareholders carrying out the work with pre-contractual control in order to run the procedures quickly. I would remind you that in 2018 such an amendment had come to the end of July, while in 2017 it had never come. In addition, taking into account, Mr President, the particular resilience shown by Crete to pyrethrins, we have decided to use exclusively much more expensive pesticides, such as Phosmet and Spinosad, in order to effectively deal with the problem, thus indirectly strengthening the region. It is noted that in the very near future - it is a matter of days - the tender will be awarded, that is to say, finalised, which would have already been completed if only one shareholder had emerged. And a minority came up because we chose these expensive drugs. We therefore have a renegotiation obligation under Law 4412/2006 because of the principle of economic offer. In any case, drugs will be in the DAC for mid-August. Mr President - and I would like to draw particular attention to this - I would like to refer to what the Minister, Mr Vorides, promised, that is to say with arguments, with particulars and documents, rather than bile letters of the past, knees and phantoms, to claim from the European Commission the activation of Article 221 of Regulation No 1308/2013 on the possibility of compensation for the olive producers in Crete for the damage they have suffered. So what did we do? Since December - as Mr Vorides promised - a free study has been carried out by exquisite scientists - geopolitics and other scientists - which, in fact, showed where the problem came from, has established the existence of the glossary, it has shown that these meteorological phenomena, which were extraordinary and unprecedented with heat and moisture, have created evil in quantity and quality. Here's the study, it's surrendered! So there is now an objectiveisation, the quantification of the damage and the dispatch of the dossier to the European Commission with arguments, with documentation, in order to get the best deal possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u47	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u48	Madam Minister, honey, honey and pie! I am starting to deal with the problem of plant protection. You said that in August there would be pesticides at the disposal of producers, spray workshops. We're already on the second spray, so they're spraying with last year's drugs. If you delay too much - until August - I'm very afraid that when you need to spray - and you know, they become a specific hour and a specific day, if you go an hour later or a day later, you don't get the problem - you won't deal with the problem. One, then, is that you continue the same practice of the previous government, that medicines should come too late at the disposal of the workshops. The second point you mentioned on the file that is being processed in order to be submitted to the European Union: I am sorry to tell you that a year now the infamous dossier is being made, it is being completed and it is being submitted. I think you should speed up. There is no excuse in relation to the coronary because all the processing of the dossier could, of course, be done electronically and already. The third issue concerns storage and possible measures to dismantle the market. Sometimes the producers and the people who are on the front of olive cultivation know better than the Interprofessional, unfortunately also from the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. And I'm not just talking about this, but about time. Now listen: The Interprofessionals have decided that they cannot offer the storage measure. This year in particular, the storage measure would be the necessary, firstly, because we had degraded qualities. As regards the argument that it is better to apply this measure to second-quality olive oil, this year's degraded qualities, at least for Crete, are an element that makes storage a good measure for that year. Secondly, the market says that these quantities will not be available. But what market, when specifically because of krone and tourism declined this year, because of the restrictive measures that we have taken as a matter of urgency and causing this huge problem to tourism, cannot quantities be placed on the internal market? Of course, the problem we have to face since September, October, which will gradually begin the process when we come to express the olive fruit this year, is that we will say where we will put this olive oil, where we will put it. Are we going to make new tanks? New facilities with doubt about the future of the product? I would like to present this reflection to you once again and ask you - if this measure cannot be activated - for the implementation of such a measure to facilitate at least the safe storage under rules relating to quality, of course, and product safety. Let's see it as a national measure. I would also ask you to see the product being disposed of in weak social groups. They go around six, seven years that the Ministry of Rural Development has little to do with the removal and disposal of products into weak social groups. All purchased through the Aid Fund to the Most deprived, the well-known TEVA. However, the Ministry of Agriculture can, along with the necessary promotion of olive oil for young people - starting with the students, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Education for the promotion - but especially for the decongestion of this year's quantities, make available to the Greek family, which again due to the measures taken, will have enormous problems for its survival. I would like you to tell us when you are finally going to submit the dossier to the European Union, because you do not shorten the procedures for on-site treatment for spraying, and, of course, what else you intend to do to help a crop and a product that was national in all three, four years has been affected by various factors so that it does not get hurt by the indifference of the state, the government, the parties and all of us. I think that's very important. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, as I have told you in my prototype, the Minister has promised that the drugs will arrive earlier this year than any other time in the DAG, something that our actions have proved so far. You know that there are stocks from last year for the sprays you invoke, so there will be no problem at all. And that is why I told you we strengthened both with 2 million more in Crete and with more expensive medicines. So there is no doubt as to the exact timing of the execution of the homicide program. As far as storage is concerned, Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to say this: Mr Colleague, you are very experienced and always look at the numbers. I think that the example of Spain really gives the answer. As far as the other measures are concerned, we are open to proposals. But, in any case, you know that such measures, such as storage, can only be foreseen by the committee, because otherwise this will be considered illegal State aid. I now come to the issues of the dossier that, as you said, we are all listening to it and we are not seeing it. Colleague, the file is here, it's ready and submitted. As the Minister has said, the objective of the damage will be completed by the end of the month in order to send the request to the European Commission. I imagine you want a job to be important, too. But it took a year to do so, Mr President. It didn't happen in the leg. Meanwhile, we were under the conditions created by the coronary, which, as you can see, delayed some things. But, in any case, we are ready with arguments. And now I come to what you said, so that there is no indifference. A government and a Prime Minister, such as Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a colleague, who has obtained a strategic, decisive advantage for our country and has exempted our national product - like, of course, olives - from customs in the United States, is showing indifference or is it providing a unique strategic advantage, which helps to have a comparative advantage over the entire olive oil production chain from producers to printers and traders? And this when the main competitor, the main player, the Spaniards, do not have that advantage and have 25% cap on the duties. As you can see, then, this entrepreneurial environment that we have secured opens a splendid field of glory. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] The government can't go sell the olive oil. The government creates the preconditions, Mr. Comrade. And these conditions were ensured in a market, such as America. And, of course, we have ensured the prerequisites by strengthening reasoning, because you have asked about the promotion programmes, which indeed exist and operate. These programmes of the common market organisation, in particular, you know that they are produced by collectives, by inter-branch organisations, by producer groups. What did we do as a state?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u51	Fifty-five thousand tonnes are in the warehouses...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Comrade, you spoke about the promotion. We create as a state the conditions so that the market can grow. As far as the programmes of the common organisation of the market are concerned, we have strengthened the collectiveities so that they can participate in such programmes. What did we do? We did 13%, 10%, and we helped and encouraged the creation of interbranches, since we changed with an amendment of 30% to 15%, and you see one interprofessional behind the other. I'll say two clues, because you say that's the result. In the programmes submitted for 2021, those of the common organisation of the market, our country is in the first three candidate positions for the simple seventeen applications in 2019 - this shows, Mr Colleague, an interest in the market - and in the first place for the multi-programmes with twenty-eight dossiers, colleague, compared with six in 2019. That's what they're pointing at. In conclusion, because I have been abusive in time, I will say, Mr Colleague, that we really want to alleviate the fact that pandemic beyond its sad consequences, opens good prospects for the agri-food sector as a whole, with dominated, of course, by olive oil there. Why am I saying this, Mr. Comrade? The country, thanks to the exemplary management of the pandemic, which is, of course, due to the government and to the entire Greek people, has truly achieved the country's'rebranding' as safe and reliable. Consumers internationally prefer products that have a country of origin, 'locality', products that are safe - we have a huge advantage, as you can see - and quality products, as Greek. If you take a look at the elements of the National Bank's Economic Analysis Directorate, you'll see something impressive, Mr. President. And that is the development story, which we all have to build together. Greek exports decreased in March - April by 12%, except for oil and food products which increased by 9%. The average growth in food exports three years 2017-2019 was 2% and the first four months of 2020, amidst a pandemic, were running at 21%. Greece is the only European country where its food exports did not fall, when the great player, Italy, saw a fall of twenty-seven points. All this, Mr President, with the government's strategic plan to increase exports from thirty-eight to forty-eight of GDP and an increase in industry's rate from very low to 9.5% today, at 15% over the decade, creates a huge opportunity for the food industry, as the food industry is 1/4 of our industry. The contexts are very good, thanks to the strategy we are drawing up - you know about the Pissaridis Commission - and, of course, about the double development package: the Recovery Fund and the new ESRB. Here's a splendid field of glory! There's will, there's will, there's strategy. Olive oil, really, is top priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question with number 6430/13-25-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: 'Talkover programme 2020', will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Member. Also, the third, with number 924/13-7-2020, is the top-level question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removing the teaching service of teachers due to threatened pregnancy", will not be discussed after consultation. Also, the second question under number 925/13-7-2020 of the second cycle of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of the Group of the Greek Communist Party, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "At the same time as the workers of the Private Educational Instructors of New Yenia Ziridis and the safeguarding of their rights", it is not discussed in consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Friday 17 July 2020, which reads as follows: (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 927/13-7-2020, is a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Museum of Pontian Hellenism in the former camp of Pavlou Mela in western Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 906/8-7-2020 by the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The impossibility of the Government leads to mass auctions in the autumn". 3. Under No 914/12-7-2020, a topical question by Piraeus II, Mr. Fotinis Bakadatimas, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Reiterate a school of police officers at the Greek Police School". B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and 3 and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The question by number 928/13-7-2020 was raised by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Expansion of the western suburban Thessaloniki in Edessa through the Yannis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 913/12-7-2020 of the Member of the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The need to speed up the full operation of the Archaeological Museum of Polygyros Halkidiki". Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-15-S1-commons.u54	It is with the consent of the House that the sitting is closed. End time: 10.47 ́
