ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 19 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines under a new Krone". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 808/15-6-20, by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Ligoulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the 50th percent of Larissa's seven properties committed in the superstate and when will they be returned to the local society?" 3. The Question No 811/15-2020 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lack of pediatricians in Ikaria and in the Furnus". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Full absence of airport control and application of health protocols at airports, at risk of dispersal of the coronary and with irreparable damage to tourism". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 818/15-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Simportant proposals from business operators in the Region of Crete, to support work and business". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The definition of mobilisation criteria for substitutes - hourly teachers, with a contract of conditional working for a certain period of educational staff, professional schools (EPC) of the OAED". 4. The Question No 802-12-6-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The West Attica General Hospital "Agia VARVARVARA". 5. The question under number 817,15-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct reopening of the "Lomadon" Hospital of Thessaloniki - The expected second wave of Krone is putting us all before our responsibilities". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 6005/286/27-4-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hare) Mamulaki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Conventions for the development and concession of regional airports and resulting obligations under the current conditions of the Krone epidemic". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Social Businesses Workers' Cooperatives (CONSEP) Social Cooperatives of Limited Responsibility (Kosovo) and Women's Cooperatives, etc. are exempted from the financial aid for the affected enterprises under the SMR.’. 3. The question asked by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Theopistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'CIVID Pandemic -19 and airport management companies - a fact of force majeure or an adverse event'. I would also like to make an announcement. The Ministers for Justice, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, as well as the Minister of State tabled a draft law on 17 June 2020: "The Single Code of Conduct for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors and provisions for the effective administration of justice". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Following the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. I see from the Minutes that the New Democracy and SYRIZA have voted for ratification. All other parties expressed reservations, i.e. the Change Movement, the Communist Party of Greece, the Greek Solution and the MRA 25, and in accordance with Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We therefore agree with the procedure laid down in Article 108 and I give the floor for five minutes to the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, there was a reservation in the committee before the State Secretary, who was present. It answered three questions, which we have raised in general. I hope there is finalization today. It's no longer a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u3	So you're positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Leonidas Stoltides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. For this convention and its ratification, we have to say that the debate in the committee was extremely revealing. Neither once nor twice has the rapporteurs of parties, particularly those who have been in power - and in the agreement, apart from technical details from the others - heard that this ratification of a contract exempts or otherwise relieves our country of burdens. That is to say, you're burdening insurance rights. This small part of the total wealth produced by the workers alone and with sacrifices and struggles managed to save them so that they could live decently, covering their basic health and pension needs. Even this little piece, the weight you're saying, you got rid of it or you better carried it into the pockets of a handful of parasites, the economy, the shareholders of business groups. So we remind you of what you have secured to Greek workers, but also what migrant workers will carry. You have ensured the Katorugalos, Brutsi, that the worker of Greek or migrants will have the freedom of choice, as you like to say, to suffice with the so-called national pension of EUR 345, which is so much, and that is the only one that has the State guarantee and naturally tolerates the complete privatisation of supplementary insurance, supplementary pension, but also the reward for which there is no guarantee from the State, these will be played in gambling and the insured will be investors in low, medium and high risk investments. The worker will monitor performance and what he can transfer as a right to his home country. But what rights will be transferred, when labour rights are the ones building the insurance, which can be transferred to the country of origin of immigrants in this case in Egypt and Greece? What is the legislative framework for employment rights, which give rise to insurance rights? It is unpaid work - known - and undeclared work, hunger wages, flexibility, part-time employment, rotating work and, above all, legislative acts, on the basis of the pandemic crisis which has broken down what has been left. How many are those who in their working life, with this framework can document their insurance rights and what are they? When the middle-age working population shows that for the majority of workers, for four and a half thousand equivalents it takes thirty years of work to get a pension of EUR 345 national and EUR 69 reward. More specifically, around 40 000 Egyptian fishermen work in our country, as the best in the world, who reach 95% of all fishing workers. One of the most vital wealthy sources in our country, fishing, which is being smashed by European Union legislation, which you have a gospel, with the collapse of small fishermen in favour of large fishers, is based on and due to the trouble, sweat and many times the blood of Egyptian workers. What rights, then, will these wrestlers actually carry from the anti-virtual Greek legislation, the tolerance of the state to the enormous immunity of the large shipowners, these workers who work at best eighteen hours a day within the fishermen, in miserable conditions of residence and feeding, and much more what rights will they carry when the governments of all of you have transferred and retained their insurance from IKA as wage earners to OGA, as land workers to reduce the premium with the demand of the large shipowners, whose profits you all serve? The Government in question by the Communist Party about the discrimination in Article 7 regarding the award of national pensions refused to abolish them. Immigrants, like the Egyptians, will have a reduced national pension because they will not have forty years of residence in Greece. So which one of them will even have this little pension of EUR 345? And, of course, we are saying that this distinction arising from Article 7 should be abolished now. What did you finally let go? What will you leave when you have all wiped out 200 billion from the funds and the Katrugalo-Brutsi bill you have invited the 'brows', the health and insurance business groups, to have all of the AS's 100 billion meals? This is the European Union's strategy on social security and that is what the government is doing here. This is a pan-European private product that anyone who will have to pay and who will not have died on the steps of the hospital, as is happening in the United States of America where, now, during the pandemic period, we have seen that poorness, which has not paid the high hospital costs, has ended up in the mass graves and whoever again had the misfortune to escape - as the elderly who have these days of publications - owes for his hospitality a million dollars. That's the barbarity of the system you're serving too. As a Communist Party, we will not interfere in the transfer of any of their rights. We have fought for the transfer of the insurance rights of Greeks and migrants. But we want and we'll get in the way of the reinstatement that's not over. Thousands of workers, pensioners, self-employed, farmers, young people and young people in many cities protested against the new crime you committed against social security, claiming exclusively public compulsory social security with benefits and pensions that meet modern needs. This struggle is continuing and will continue both by the labour and by the pension movement. We are voting 'yes' to ratify the convention on the transfer of whatever rights they have left for them, of course. We will continue with unstoppable struggle to create terms of work, insurance and pension conditions so that Greeks and immigrants can transfer rights based on the wealth they produce and to meet their modern needs and not air unsurpassed, as foreseen by the reinsurance policy implemented by all of you, because with air peoples neither can nor will they be tolerated to live. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. I would ask the Special Rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasios, to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing in plenary the draft law of the Government on the Elimination of the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt with a two-year delay. However, we do not really understand what reasons it serves since it is well established that the initial agreement in this case was heterogeneous for the Greek insurance system after millions of euros had been transferred to Egypt, when the transfers to Greece did not exceed EUR 30,000 and pensions in the friend country do not exceed EUR 50 to 80. The State Secretary himself admitted this to the committee responsible the other day. The fact that the special type of bilateral agreement with Egypt has been negotiated for more than twenty-five years proves once again that the governments over the years have not had them so well burned, even though there has never been a friction or a strong disagreement that has exceeded the limits of service. The defence of workers' insurance rights is and must surely be a task of every rule of law, but the protection of our insurance system from such agreements should be a priority. The insurance of nationals of the two countries who are insured, whether as workers or as entrepreneurs, have measured their professional life in both countries. An insured person in two Member States who is a national of one of them seeks a solution which ensures that he is retired. Moreover, the uncertainty about insurance must not be an obstacle to those who wish to engage in an economic activity in the other State. So there is a need for consultation between these two states. These agreements, however, were economically targeted, with countries that mainly have a strong presence of Greek workers and of affinity. This Agreement comes to replace the agreement between Greece and Egypt from 16-1 to 1985. Included are provisions for the transfer and recognition of periods of insurance, the corresponding benefits, etc. On the other hand, it seems to me that it is coming to rationalise and benefit our country since the current agreement has been far too far against us. We as a Greek Solution honor our mission as a party that is to serve and protect our Greeks, our country and our nation. The national interests of both states have focused their policies on mutual respect, but also on identifying common strategies. For example, I would like to mention the following: In Article 13, and in accordance with the principle of accountability, reference is made to the assessment of whether there is a need for the time of insurance in the other State of the agreement, provided that, of course, they do not coincide with time. Article 14 speaks of a minimum period of 12 months for the acquisition of benefits, but also of a national old age pension. However, in view of the thousands of Egyptians in Greece, I believe that this period should be longer. As far as Rule 21 is concerned - and I have said so to the committee - we in no way want a person to be charged with disability issues with lengthy and difficult procedures. However, for the medical examinations referred to in Article 21, which may be requested by each other in conjunction with Article 8 of the Administrative Regulation, I believe that, due to the multitude of Egyptians in Greece, this information could be provided every quarter and the clearance in favour of EVA should be completed within six months of each quarter. There is no reason to reach the liquidation until after two years. Benefits cost money in our insurance system and the national economy and money also cost money, and we already have enough problems to have the luxury to wait over time for Egypt's yield. In Article 23 on the protection of dossiers and information sent from one Member State to another, special provision should be made in respect of the processing of personal data and to ensure that there is a similar legislative framework in Egypt as well. We must be sure that they face the sensitive history of each insured person with due care and responsibility. Article 28 now gives an eight-month margin to the insured to choose the new or old insurance scheme, but perhaps, because of objective problems that may arise in their information and understanding the differences between the two schemes, this should be higher. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just one more minute, Mr. President. The relationship between Hellenism and the partner country is lasting and is lost in the centuries. This agreement that we are called upon to ratify seems to be moving modernistically. If we consider the transfer of funds and contributions from one country to another and the payment of pensions only from one country to another, it is certainly more complicated and difficult than taking account of insurance periods and anabolic pension payments from both countries. In addition, however, our country should have good diplomatic relations with Egypt, which should be further developed since Egypt can be our very strong ally in the geopolitical issues of the Eastern Mediterranean. This could be done, Minister, but after the ministerial meeting. It must be our aim to ensure the best possible relations with Egypt in the EEZ definition always on the condition that Kastelorizo is included. This can reduce the fragmentation of the Turks, and in any case it will be a very sound response to our irresponsible Turk pact. In conclusion, and in order not to repeat the misappropriation of the previous agreement, you must monitor, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the functionality and usefulness of this agreement, and where it is necessary to make improvements, as should be done in the case of Article 14(3), for example, which I have already mentioned, where the 12-month period is particularly small for the establishment of an old age pension to non-Greek nationals, so that there is no exploitation at all at the expense of our country. The Greek Solution will vote 'yes'. Thank you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u9	The reason is Ms. Maria Apatzidis, the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law aims to close the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application signed in Crete on 10 October 2018. It is therefore about bilateral social security conventions. The aim of the bilateral social security conventions is to protect the socio-security rights of migrants from each other and also to protect those who have been repatriated. Greece has certainly concluded bilateral agreements - social security agreements with many countries outside the European Union, countries where there is a population of Greek immigrants. These bilateral conventions and agreements are beneficial to these Greek immigrants who are an important part of Greek democracy, and it is therefore important that they be promoted by the Greek state. Generally, with the exception of cases where special conditions are agreed, these bilateral agreements are based on the following insurance principles, the equality of treatment of workers of the two Contracting States, the inclusion of periods of insurance completed in the two States to establish a pension right and the calculation of the amount of pension, the free transfer, the export of benefits to the beneficiary's State of residence. At the same time, pension benefits are included. The transnational agreements referred to shall ensure the right of self-employed or self-employed pensions in cases where the beneficiaries fulfil the conditions for retirement in accordance with the provisions of national law by one or both States Parties. For these reasons, the rights deriving from the contributions paid must be secured for the immigrant insured without conditions, without exceptions and of course without any loss of such rights in the event of repatriation. Bilateral conventions ensure precisely these rights. In fact, we are talking about the country of Egypt with which we have a great traditional interaction. This is a country which is also a host country of Greeks, but also a country of origin for migrants coming to Greece, so this intense interaction, which is economic, labour, and cultural and political, must be regulated by clear agreements. It is therefore important, as provided for in Article 5 of the draft law, that pensions and other benefits be paid to beneficiaries who have temporary or permanent residence in the territory of another Contracting State. The key thing is not to allow a suspension of payment or abolition of pensions and other cash benefits, because the beneficiary has his residence in the territory of another Contracting State. It is also laid down in Article 12 that, in order to determine the conditions for voluntary or voluntary continued insurance of a person under Greek legislation, the periods of compulsory insurance carried out by that person in accordance with the laws of the Arab Republic of Egypt, together with the periods of insurance completed under Greek legislation, will be taken into account, provided that that person also fulfils the other conditions laid down by Greek legislation. This is an essential provision. I would, however, like to make a comment here on the broader political perspective in which we are dealing specifically with the issue of labour migration, which is regulated by similar agreements. In our globalised world we dominate the so-called'social dumping', which is a kind of socially unfair competition and requires the working class to compete with each other in order to attract investors. This is an competitiveness of cheapness, let me be allowed to speak, which undermines labour and insurance rights. In this very difficult international context, which, as a PART25, we are trying in our political speech to analyse and tackle the creation and expansion of an internationalised area of safeguarding insurance rights, is certainly a first small step in the direction required by the modernised form of order struggle, that is to say, towards an internationalised framework for guaranteeing labour and insurance rights. It is therefore in this context that we as a PART25 will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. At the same time, of course, at the same time as voting in favour of the agreement, I can only note that this is taking place in a very pitiful era where in Greece a disastrous new insurance policy cancels decades' conquests. It is an insurance policy that is alarmingly shrinking the social state, significantly increases the number of poor pensioners, magnifies social and income inequalities, and generally marks a transition to an individual capitalisation system where each employee becomes a manager of himself and chooses what is best for him, with an inevitable class effect that the economically stronger, that is to say, the less and less the financially weak, that is, most. It is an insurance that the pension system is transformed into a neoliberal type of insurance benefit grid that destroys every concept of intergenerational solidarity and abolishes political culture, as it takes pension as a forward-looking deposit, by abrogating social solidarity and ultimately trains all - and in particular the worst - to follow the logic of private insurance, in which they are ultimately encouraged to resort. At this particular juncture it is clear that although we are voting in favour of this agreement for the reasons I have set out, we are, as a MERA25 extremely pessimistic for the future of social security under this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the Closure of the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Procedure. It is really a very important agreement in the sense that justice is restored and a very important loose end is resolved for Egyptian friends, for the friendly country of Egypt, with which we are associated with friendly, historical and cultural ties. It is an important day, in the sense that thousands of Egyptian workers are coming to Greece, working for years and there has never been what we are trying to do with the agreement, today in Parliament, to make a state law. The proposed draft law aims to close the bilateral Agreement in the field of social security between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt, as well as its Administrative Regulation for its implementation, signed in Crete on 10 October 2018. The Arab Republic of Egypt has already completed the ratification process in March 2019. First of all, the contract under review achieves the protection of social security rights and the maintenance of the insurance expectations and rights of those who leave one country to work or reside in another country and therefore operates for the benefit of both the Contracting Parties and their insured persons. The subject-matter of the classic-type agreement is based on the following generally accepted socio-security principles. Firstly, the principle of equal treatment in both States of persons covered by the agreement. In particular, their nationals of a Contracting State will enjoy the same rights and obligations as nationals of the other Contracting State. Second, the taking into account of periods of insurance and residence completed in the two Contracting States and taken into account in the calculation of benefits, where the pension entitlement is not founded on its own initiative in each country. Thirdly, the proportional distribution of benefits, i.e. the burden of each Member State on the basis of the time of insurance. Fourthly, at the beginning of the export of benefits, namely the free transfer of benefits to the beneficiary's State of residence, while the corresponding existing agreement between Greece and Egypt, signed in 1985, was a peculiar agreement, with the main provision for the transfer of the insurance contributions of workers to their country of origin at the time the insurance risk occurred, which was unilaterally functioning, particularly at the expense of Greece, with the inflicting economic consequences on the social security system of our country. In particular, it was noted that significant amounts of insurance contributions were transferred to Egypt for Egyptians working in Greece, not in accordance with the general provisions of national law in force regarding the time when insurance risks were incurred, i.e. the age of 67, but at much less than 30 to 40 years of age. The sanctioned bilateral classics agreement has significant benefits for our country, as Greece will no longer be obliged to export insurance contributions from the Egyptians, who have worked in Greece at the time of the insurance risk in the country of origin. On substance, the agreement to be ratified will no longer work unilaterally, but neither as a source of funding for the Egyptian socio-security system. It is worth mentioning that according to the 17-6-2020 e-ECA newsletter from 1986 until now, insurance contributions amounting to around EUR 5,694.207.07 have been transferred to Egypt for some seven hundred and forty-nine insured persons, while insurance contributions, transferred respectively from Egypt to Greece, amount to just EUR 29,285 for twenty-one insured. The agreement now in force provides for insurance cover for other categories of persons insured by the Contracting States, such as seafarers and civil servants, which have so far been excluded. In particular, as regards the calculation of the benefit in Greece, the periods of insurance in Egypt will be taken into account in the periods of insurance and residence in Greece for the completion of the conditions for the granting of a national pension, in accordance with Greek law. Finally, given that Egyptian nationals working in Greece and establishing an autonomous pension right in our country will receive a higher pension than they would receive from the Egyptian insurance system, it is estimated that this and only the expectation of a higher pension amount will contribute to the reduction of undeclared work in our country. I am particularly pleased with the extended consensus of the parties in this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u13	The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Following the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u14	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u15	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u16	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Preparation of the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application’ was unanimously accepted, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the second ratification. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Transport". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. This is also included in the House in the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to this agreement. I would remind you what the parties' positions were during the debate in the committee responsible: New Democracy in favour, SYRIZA in favour, Change Movement in favour, Communist Party in Greece against, the Greek Solution was reserved in favour of the Greek Solution. Therefore, and always with your agreement, we can proceed, giving the floor for five minutes to the Special Rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas. Here, Ms. Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. The agreement between Greece and Morocco on maritime transport signed in 2016 by the Government of SYRIZA and is to be ratified by the current government is nothing more than a series of facilities, which are given to the two countries' share capital in the framework, as emphasised in various parts of the Convention, the principles of free and fair competition. That is why they mean all other parties drinking water in the name of armaments. So let's see what the contract provides for. The various facilities for tax relief, including these reduced port charges and other charges paid by Greek shipowners, must also be provided for the Moroccan flag vessels in order to ensure, in principle, the reciprocity of the equally favourable treatment for shipowners in Morocco, who are operating in Morocco. Of course, this legitimate chapter of competition also translates and justifies the reduced organic compositions of ships, the intensification of the work of seafarers, the downward equilibrium of the wages of Greek and foreign crews and, ultimately, the widespread unemployment of seafarers. The contract provides a series of facilities, so that shipping companies can freely transfer their profits and other revenues obtained from activity in the other country as provided for in Article 6. At the same time, while the free access to port and port facilities for seafarers and seafarers for seafarers is provided for by the provision of free, without additional fees, a number of obstacles are raised to claim all their claims to the company resulting from the contract of employment, even if they are due. In fact, a protection shield for shipowners is being created from the labour demands. Article 18 provides that the judicial and administrative authorities of each of the Contracting States shall not take up any civil procedure provided for and related to the contract of employment of a member of the crew of the vessel of the other State unless this is requested by the competent diplomatic or consular authority of a flag State of the ship. In other words, workers who work in the country will not be able to access the courts and should only address the authorities of the other State which is the flag of the ship. It is really a challenge for foreign shipowners to be able to operate in our country as if they were at home, but the crew of the ship to claim their rights from the employment contract, whatever nationality they are, must take the permission from the consular authority to resort to the courts or to denounce any violation of the contract. In fact, the second paragraph provides that in the event of a complaint concerning the non-payment of accrued funds, the Contracting States will, as you say, make every effort, in order to encourage, in other words, the worker, first to contact the consular authority. You have no limit anymore. The commitment of all governments to the protection of shipowners is well known, but soon you will also bring us a law which provides for the exemplary punishment of anyone who dares to denounce the non-payment of their landlords. Furthermore, in Article 16, you are giving the shipowners the freedom to charter seafarers and the other State on terms freely agreed between shipowners and seafarers, that is, you are giving them the freedom to circumvent collective agreements and to charter seafarers from countries with very low wages and, of course, with the unemployment nipple above their heads being blackmailed by Greek seafarers with individual hunger contracts. This is the free competition that you all save and live for years by the workers. Now, as far as who is legitimate is concerned, let the workers themselves be judged. The JRC will vote against this convention, which is nothing more than another gift to the logistics fund and which, from it, has nothing to expect of the workers of the sector who remain faced with the uncertainty and the deadlocks, which were already known to them and were further strengthened in the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. I now invite the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, as we said in committee, today's convention is another one signed a few years ago, on 8 September 2016, and it comes to the House to be ratified with a great delay. We wonder why it has been delayed, as has many other contracts. The questions we have put are how many such conventions are still in existence, how they are negotiated and how they are concluded, but above all, if they are part of a national geopolitical strategy, which must of course be time-consuming and agreed by all political parties. Rectorically, of course, our questions and logically were not answered, since it is known that Greece does not have a national foreign policy, so just that each government serves specific powers. Incidentally, the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy has accused us of being enemies of the European Union, which, of course, is not the case, since our opposition concerns German Europe, which we certainly do not accept. In any case, the European Union has, in fact, already been dissolved, since Germany has abolished all the rules that we have known to date, such as the Maastricht Agreement, the ban on subsidising companies by the States, by supporting its own funds, while requiring the sale of our own and so on. In addition, the constitutional court has prohibited its central bank from participating in the European Central Bank's packages, while the sums agreed by the German Government to be provided by the Reconstruction Fund, when they are voted by the twenty-seven parliaments plus the European Parliament, as well as when it ensures the money with the participation of all, are trimmed, how much compared with what it itself has made available to its economy. In any case, our great differences with the New Democracy appear from everywhere. He believes in extreme neoliberalism with selling everything, while we in the mixed economy. It is a systemic party, while we are non-systemic, not of course antisystemic, since we have specific political proposals. We are against uncontrolled globalisation in favour of the nation state. We have huge differences in national issues and migration. We believe in Greece's great potential to regain its national sovereignty, knowing how and many more. Continuing in the bill, Morocco is a multitude of thirty-six million young people, with 45% under the age of twenty-four. It has a very low per capita income, just 3,357 dollars in 2018, it is Muslim, while until 1956, it was under French and Spanish influence. There is still a French counterpart in the country, a million Moroccans live in France and seven hundred thousand in Spain, and it is well known that Morocco is exporting terrorists, since Moroccans have set up organisations such as GICM, present in the European Union and have fought in many places in recent years, in Africa, Iran, Afghanistan, Syria and elsewhere. Morocco is a key point in the trafficking of illegal immigrants in Europe, as well as drugs. So special attention needs to be paid to making it impossible for us to vote for the agreement. Especially with regard to shipping, it has no great maritime sector. The State-owned company ‘COMANAV’ operates as a subsidiary of the French company ‘CMA CGM’ and has most of the eighty to ninety ships in the country. However, it has important fishing activities, particularly in the Atlantic, while there are conflicts with Spain. So if someone serves today's treaty is Morocco, through the use of Greek shipping. In any case, our country's trade with Morocco is too limited, of the order of EUR 300 million annually. Generally speaking, the contract is now aimed at developing cooperation in the commercial shipping sector, where Morocco's better service from Greek shipping is essentially promoted. Having referred to the articles in the Commission, there are too many problems. For example, in Article 13, as regards temporary permission to leave on land, it is not mentioned that strict monitoring of ships should be carried out. In Article 14, it is not worrying that our country operates as a centre for crossing the first opportunity or agreement. It is therefore welcome that all of Greece's advantageous agreements with the other states should be examined in advance, especially as regards the influx of citizens of third countries, their illegal establishment and the rights we grant through agreements to third countries. We have seen a great problem in Article 17, where as far as paragraph 1 is concerned, if someone kills on a ship of one of the two countries in Greek ports for Morocco is, for example, a murderer, while for Greece no. This is an entirely absurd and illegal regulation. Finally, we have raised a number of questions in many articles without getting any answers. So for this reason, and also for the other objections we have raised here and in the committee, we will vote against the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the government is probably out of place and time. Today Mr. Treasury is struggling there with Ceci setting an EOZ. You bring the deal with Egypt. It's not your business, Minister, but let's wait next week. Did we today have to ratify the gifts in Egypt? Let's see what they'll give us and what they'll have to give us and validate them after all the gifts together. So I think you are making mistakes, which are mainly about a secret diplomacy conducted by New Democracy, which is very strange to us. And I say secret diplomacy, because even in Morocco, my Minister, you are making tragic mistakes. Mr. Villard told you very well. You know, the "buffo" Moroccan is well known. If you go outside, it's one of the best quality. All right, you're giving the right now with the ships going out without control. What to talk about. I don't want to talk at all. I do not want to talk at all about the important issue, for me, of black money. Moroccans, you know, have their own special laundry washing machines. There is nothing to say about this or the non-taxation of shipowners' money. Or do you not know that many of the Greek shipowners - or a few if you like - have their first work on drugs? Many shipowners have been arrested abroad and their ships and shipowners, etc. So you allow them not to tax their money and do whatever they want. I do not know whether we are servicers here, or whether we are a Chamber of Conduct for Shipbuilding, but at least let us be a little serious. In Article 11 it will not be checked - it says - the identity of the ship. What if it's Turkish, Minister? It's Turkish, it passes guns, it goes where it wants. In Article 17 for the offence by seafarers there is a peculiar diplomatic immunity which does not include illegal immigration. I don't understand that. I don't want to talk about commercials. I don't even want to deal with it. Let it go. But I'll tell you this. If you want to vote on this, you should also bring an agreement to relaunch illegal Moroccan illegal illegal immigrants to Greece. Minister, I want you to listen to me if you can, because it's important what I'm about to tell you. Mr Metarakis' problem is very simple. There are no transnational agreements with countries such as Congo, Morocco, Algeria, to relaunch these people. On the occasion of this contract, you could make a deal with Morocco, after you give them a lot of things, get something for Greece as well. Relaunch illegal immigrants, those who are illegal, who came illegally to Greece, to go to Morocco. That's not what you've done, and you're leaving it dead. When are we going to discuss this? On the other hand, I will not say about the contribution of the Moroccan residential to Greece. I will record you here a post of your own newspaper "CORDER THEMA" - the "first lie" of what it is called - which has an entire article along with the "i - efimerida", which speaks of the Moroccan "cosa myra" in Athens, that Moroccans control drugs, cigarettes, traffickers. That's what you're not saying. I'll testify for the Minutes to study it. And now we go to the most dangerous, secret diplomacy exercised by the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr New Democracy, Mr PASOK, Mr KINAL and Mr SYRIZA, the exclusive Economic Zone is not coffee with a few sugars. There's no EOZ with partial sugar. There's either an EOZ or there's no EOZ. These gifts you make in Italy and which, unfortunately, also extend to Egypt, are perhaps devastating for future developments. And the solution exists. I'll tell you now, but you can't do it. I shall say, however, frankly about what Egypt is asking for. Egypt is not a simple country. She has the Muslim Brotherhood - to understand who we are talking about now - which is behind Ceci's back and which does not want to deliver her own Exclusive Economic Zone to Greece. He wants to give nothing. There's Ceci whoever already makes gas out of the Zor look. If you see where the Zor look is - I've been telling them for years about the Zor look since 2007, in 2008, in 2009, everyone fooled me, they may not have listened at all - it's just on the Cyprus-Egypt border line. That is where Egypt is now drilling and making billions. So if you believe that the limited influence that Egypt demands from Greece, Kastelorizos, even Karpathos to go wester, and this agreement will go through the Greek Solution, you are wrong. I'll just say it. SYRIZA's gentlemen have closed the issue of the Prespecies. You're closing the AOZ issues, but you're closing them wrong. Criminal mistakes you make and they will be national crimes for the future. Why? I'll explain why. Because if Egypt signs Greece today or tomorrow, the problem with Kastelorizo is not solved. Nothing's solved. If you see, Egypt's EEZ won't touch Kastelorizo. Egypt has nothing to do with Kastelorizo, because the pretext and the reasoning will be for the New Democracy - that is, the lie made by the media, because they owe too many millions of euros - that we have solved a problem. The problem is not solved, because the Egyptian EEZ has nothing to do with Kastelorizo. It's over and out. Greece's problem is Turkey. This is exactly where the Greek proposal comes from. I won't say that what you're doing is just a crime, which touches the limits of treason. Why didn't you do with Cyprus AEZ? If Greece had made an EEZ with Cyprus, it would have finished the issue of Kastelorizos, because the EEZ of Cyprus ends where the Greek EEZ starts and includes Kastelorizo. He did no EEZ government with Cyprus. Why? Because the declaration, I told you, is a unilateral act. I've said it a thousand times. We don't need Egypt's deal. We make a deal with Cyprus and end the story. Egypt will follow. Why are you going with Egypt first and then with Cyprus, where Cyprus is a sister country? And that's not all. In 2004, AOZ had to be done with Cyprus - again New Democracy at the time - because in 2003 Cyprus unilaterally declared its EOZ on its western side. He should have locked in in 2006. And in 2006 the New Democracy had an opportunity. That's when I told the House. In 2006! There was Andreas Loverde here. In 2006, I told the New Democracy, do an EEZ, because then Turkey unilaterally engraved EEZ on the Black Sea, on the Black Sea. He did. He didn't do it in the South, but he engraved in the north, violating all international law. And that's not all. On 4 May 2019, Cyprus deposit coordinates the external limit of its EEZ on the western side. May 4th! Where was Greece? Turkey makes a Turkish pact, Cyprus does, Greece is absent and runs in a third country, a non-serious country - a friendly country, we must have friendly relations with Egypt - to establish an EEZ. It's criminal mistakes. If Greece and Cyprus agreed to demarcation of the AEZ, there would be no problem of Kastelorizou, nor of Karpathos, nor of any other Greek island. Understood. In 2004, Cyprus - Israel - Lebanon and Egypt, 2003, 2004, 2010, 2007. Cyprus made deals with everyone, Greece with anyone. I don't know whether they're intentional or not, or whether they're willing or involuntary. The historian of the future will look. However, when 2003-2003 is the Cymiti PASOK - it did not define EEZ with Egypt, which Egypt was urgently asking for, I think the mistake is going on by all governments. I will not say, Mr Loverdo, my chosen colleague, what the Minister, Mr Rolandes, of Cyprus, complained that he proposed that Greece should do AEZ, but then George Papandreou, in order not to challenge Turkey, said that the EEZ of Cyprus should go easter, not to be tempted by the Greek. I say this in very simple terms to understand this: the more we fear Turkey, the more we lose ground, sea, gas and wealth. That's the truth. The more we're scared, the more history goes on. I have recently heard a type of graphics, a peculiar, who also declares a university professor, going out to Mr Papadakis at the "ANT1" and saying: and I want all parties to answer, because there is no denial. So this handwriting guy said very simple. He said he wouldn't be a board of political leaders. Both Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennimatas and Mr. Mitsotakis have agreed, because there, he says, on the board, the view of the Greek Solution will be recorded, her disagreement will draw, he says, power from this disagreement. Is there a behind-the-spot agreement, Mr. SYRIZA, gentlemen of the Change Movement and gentlemen of the New Democracy, not to be a Council of Political Heads? Say it. This gentleman's statement was made on 17 June. He told Mr. Papadakis that this meeting would never take place. If they don't want the rest of the parties to say so in public. Not publicly speaking something and pulling it back. A Council of Political Heads could make it clear what everyone wants. If that is not the case, that the parties should come out publicly and say it is not the case, that both SYRIZA and the Change Movement insist on the Council of Political Heads behind closed doors, but no leaks outside. In other words, we must agree on what the red lines are and not talk to anyone but the Prime Minister and say that we are against Turkey, whatever it does is casus belli. To close today's communication, I believe that SYRIZA and the New Democracy are a lot like that. I believe that the SYRIZA people want to make Greece a colony, if you like, debt and foreigners, so do the New Democracy. They want to make a debt and foreign colony our country. Unfortunately, these are demonstrated by the actions and applications of their policy. We want to make Greece again Greek, proud and dignified, with no screams, no algae, no hysteresis, no proposals. We have made infinite proposals, but to give 300,000,000 euros to all the media, it really is worth wondering. Take out the numbers, who finally got them. I hear he got a grand publisher - publisher, a site has a man of 800,000. You gave $800,000 to one man, $400,000 to another. I'm not against supporting the media. I was one of the first to say that all the sites of all must be supported, even Mr Vataxvani's "Dakumento" with the make news that makes it ever and ever. Everyone needs to be supported, because everyone is going through a crisis. Not now, however, give our own 1,000,000, 000, 000, to Kurtakis, Velopoulos, Marinaki, to Evangelato, and I don't know where else. It's written and said a lot. Let the government come out to finish this story, and say it doesn't. Take out the list of names, let's know who took them, who's these sluts. Why don't you do that? And it comes from New Democracy, from your MPs, and it's embarrassing: Others, he says, did worse. Not to mention the others. Is it logical that because SYRIZA did worse, as you say - I don't know if he did worse, get the names to see - say the same thing, do the same thing? Unfortunately - and I will say it directly - you are being exposed irreparably. What bothers me most, is what happens all the time. And good - and it is to their credit - for the members of the PSE who have proposed that pluralism be controlled. The vote, Mrs Xenonanakopoulou, was 5-2 at the expense of pluralism. Tell me if this is called the National Broadcasting Council or if it's called the Government's Control Mechanism. Five to two, the members of the PSE, paid by the Greek state, Mr Loverdos - from us are paid, paid, paid by Greek citizens and not above Parliament, nor above the Constitution - to say 'no' to control whether there is pluralism in the media. I've been seeing on a canal all day in the New Democracy Faliro. Long live New Democracy, long live New Democracy, long live. The beggars are now a way of life in Greece. The journalists, the journalists. They're not all the same. Others do so out of need, others do it out of zeal. But it is shameful that the PSE says 'no' in the control of pluralism. I never see the Mera anywhere to be decent. I never see the JRC. I can hardly see it. We've been cut off from everywhere. But we need to get serious at some point. In conclusion, I will say: there are militaryly decommissioned Super Puma in the UAA. They're done. It's three, Mr. Loverdos. And as I suggested to the Prime Minister to get the eight armoured and took them at the last minute and fortunately he heard me, I say: There are three Super Puma ready, in flight, in operation in the ODA. It's ready. Take them, the Greek Army needs them. There's decommissioned C-130 and F-4. Take them, 'cause we need them now. Let the process begin. Don't sleep standing at the Ministry of National Defence. And it had to be the country's racing lever for the next day it comes. Be sure that the next quarter is too dangerous for Greece. We all have to weight our word, our actions, but we must be united in the face of all the things that are coming. Unfortunately, difficult times are coming for the nation, because when a government on a national issue has to resort to elections, as the Constitution says, the New Democracy behind the scenes - secretly if you like - agrees with Italy on a reduced influence as though it is a little coffee and so is with Egypt. I don't know if the rest of the leaders agree. We disagree with the reduced influence. Decreased influence means reduced sovereignty. Reduced national sovereignty means fragmentation of the Greek EEZ, which very simply means that some have to be apologise, because the wealth that Egypt wants is one. I say it here. It's Herodotus' look. That's what he wants, ladies and gentlemen. A billion cubic metres of natural gas. Look it up, find it. That's what Egypt wants. If the Prime Minister of the country tells me that, you know Velopole, if there is a war with Turkey, Egypt will stand by us in defence, and Egypt must take something, I should think about it a second time. This is the second time! I don't agree with that, but to think about it. Nor are we going to take this, that is, collapsing and defensive agreement with Egypt in the event of an attack by Turkey, we will also give the property of the Greek people. It's mistakes, mistakes, mistakes! There is no secret diplomacy in national matters. We need national diplomacy, national unity and, above all, national vigilance from everyone. I say it now, so we don't find it before us in August or September. I call on the government to take responsibility. Times are too critical for someone to take initiatives on their own. Let the political leaders discuss the red lines, 'cause we're running and we're not gonna get there. And if we're gonna run and not get there, it's wrong. To run together, to reach the goal of not losing national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u25	We have reserved ourselves to the committee responsible, precisely so that we can have the floor in plenary. But I wouldn't talk. I also told Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou that I do not intend to speak, but I think we need to talk and the other Members of Parliament must speak after the speech of the President of Greek Solution. We have today the Minister of Foreign Affairs' visit to Egypt with the good precedent of the Agreement on the EEZ with Italy and with the hope that something will be effective with Egypt as well. There the President of the Greek Solution focused, saying two more things. I believe, Mr President, that the Council of Civil Liberties is not doing anything for red lines and for the Chiefs to come out and make statements. The Council of Political Heads may have been like this many times, but that is not what we need. She needs us a substance. In this case, because Turkish aggression we have seen it increased over the past few months and the next few months are - and I agree - very dangerous if Greece has something to change its national strategy, then we definitely need a Council of Political Chiefs and we are the first to propose it with Mrs Gennimata. It must be a Council of Political Heads, but it must be prepared. The need to change a national strategy means preparation and agreement or unanimity of political forces. This national strategy in its changes also needs technical support. So a Council of Political Heads must be very well prepared, weeks prepared before it is finally done. We discredit the government because it has not started such preparation, in addition to the information given by the Minister to the political parties. In this respect, I have acknowledged many times in this Chamber that it is doing very well and informing us. Mr Mylonakis, my colleague from the Greek Solution who takes part in the National Foreign Policy Council, can assure the House today what we have proposed there. But there, not on the channels! The Minutes of the National Council, Mr President, are confidential and are to the credit of all the parties that have never been leaked, all the years since 2002, this Council has been working. So we have something to suggest, but we don't throw it out of hand. We want debate, consultation, excellent preparation and finally expressing our opinion, common opinion on the national strategy. What happened in 2003? In 2003 I was State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Velopoulos, and thank you for remembering that. Greece had a goal in front of it - and it succeeded - to become a Member State of the European Union, which it imagined for the Cypriots, for the leaders of all the political parties in Cyprus as unlikely. He was prepared, he had the agreement of the whole political world of Cyprus, he got drunk, and we finally did it, and we celebrated it here in Athens. Therefore, in those years that he mentions, they are years of national strategy for the second state of Hellenism, which he succeeded, did not stay in the air. There is now a third issue, that with Egypt. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has a very difficult job to do. It's not just that his interlocutor isn't the one he was last year. It has weaknesses, it has a stronger opposition and, Mr President, this opposition, they are brothers Muslims and they hold some relations with Turkey as well. It's not easy. And what requires that we go very quickly, as fast as we can, is the Turkish- Libyan philosopher. This pseudonym shows up - I'm not taking any position, but none of it! - as a possible discussion of a partial agreement. But to tell what the possible negotiated agreement might be, you need to know what it contains. We have no idea what the government has in mind. So neither can we say yes nor can we say no. We can say that the agreement has to be made with Egypt, because after things have happened, Mr President, it is much simpler if that agreement is made. However, he has difficulties. Anyone who knows, a glance at throwing on the map and understanding what the influence is, should understand immediately how difficult the project is. Mr President, when the Karamanlis Government made the agreement with Italy in 1977 on the continental shelf, it made compromises in terms of influence, but compromises that have been praised. The EEZ Agreement now - if anyone read the text - falls right on that delimitation. This is the current delimitation of the EEZ, which is 1977, simply being transferred to the same text by reference to the coordinates. The debate, therefore, by a sovereign state that looks at its sovereign rights and sees what is to be done and which can do on a patriotic basis, on a national basis, on a useful basis for Greek and Greek women, must be able to discuss it. If the other guy tells him he's a traitor, if the other guy tells him that and you're talking about it, it's a mistake, if the other guy tells him the a, b or o, then work is not done. So I close and thank you very much for the comfort you gave me. We are facing very serious developments. I say it all the time and I repeat it - I am not afraid, anyone with an opinion and appreciation must say it, if he is afraid, to do another job not to be a politician - that 2020 is a bad year for Greek-Turkish relations, a very bad year. Turkey has shown this to Evros. He showed it to what he did with the merchant ship from Tanzania and to what he did a few days ago with the offspring and the boat with immigrants and refugees. That means, Mr President, that we must have a common sense. In this national Council it seems clear that there are conditions for the unity and unity of the political forces. We need to get ready. This is where the government does not want the Council of Political Heads to prepare. He's never explained why he doesn't want to. They say that if we had such a Council now, we would have given Turkey the impression that something very dangerous is ahead of us, so we are in red zones. This is naive as an argument. As naive and useless as the argument that leads some to propose a Board of Heads to take a picture. Both of these are to fly them to the sea. But a preparation at technical, political level of a Council of Political Heads of State to see the issues of the national strategy where changes are needed, I think it is absolutely essential. And when the Foreign Minister returns from Egypt and informs us, we will understand, Mr President, whether there is room for an agreement with Egypt or if it does not exist. In the second case, re-emerging Turkish provocative issues - which are no longer provocative, but aggression - and a number of other television chats are not good. In this case, it really needs a change in the national strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u27	I listened very carefully to Mr. Loverdo. I hope that, because we disagree, it does not mean that we should not speak, because that is what I understood. You mean not to mention the mistakes that are made? I'll see you around. Because if you did everything well - not you - the country would not go bankrupt. I heard at the end of the day about the National Security Council. Listen, Mr. Loverdo. But I am not pleased that the Change Movement agrees that the agreement with Italy was a good one. I can't be happy about that. Decreased influence on the EOZ is not globally available. You were State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Read a little more. It's acceptance of non-existence of EOZ, Exclusive Economic Zone. It's not an exclusive economic zone that thing. It's a reduced effect, which means it's not an EOZ. How do we do it? Is it an economic zone? Even that there's an objection. We've given sea wealth. So what a positive development to do is to make less dominance? I don't get it. And I'm talking about Italy. The Council of Political Heads is becoming, Mr Loverdo, not because foreign policy is static but because it has a dynamic. The Mediterranean Charter has now changed, not only at the border, but also at the level of alliances and friendships. And we have to understand that. That is why I call for a Council of Political Heads of State. It seems that we disagree. It is within the framework of democratic governance. We can't all agree. Nor do we have a communist regime in the bad sense of the term, nor does Greece have a dictatorship. Unless you mean we have to agree on everything. Of course, for the National Security Council, we have said so from the start. It's the Greek solution proposal for a long time ago. But you didn't tell me anything about Mr. Rolandes. It's okay. I surpass in 2003 when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs. If, however, we did, Mr Loverdo, EEZ and Cyprus - and let them be a full member of the European Union - if Greece did make an EEZ with Cyprus, neither the CC nor Erdogan nor anyone needed it and would close the issue of Turkey's aggressive claims. For 1977, I'd like to inform Mr. Loverdos that Constantine Karamanlis was blown into the air at the beginning. Look for the deal. Constantine Karamanlis blew them in the air for this deal, because the Italians asked for other things. Historical rights and the Dodecanese were demanded at that time. This phrase "historical rights" is dangerous that a Greek Minister accepts it. I close: Another 1977, another 2020, another Italy's agreement with Greece in 1977 and another Exclusive Economic Zone resulting from International Maritime Law. It's not the same thing. It's completely different. I am pleased that at least we can talk to the Greek Parliament, regardless of whether the government wants to speak and decide on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u28	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. SYRIZA's President, Alexis Tsipras, as Prime Minister and SYRIZA's government have implemented a multidimensional foreign policy based on peace, dialogue, cooperation, the implementation of international law, the European dimension of politics, but of course also respect and safeguard our sovereign rights. Yesterday was the anniversary of the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, which was a tangible example of this policy. I would like to remind you that one of the main arguments for the Prespecies Agreement was that, in addition to resolving an issue that was in our country in a beneficial way, it was liberating - that was also one of the objectives - diplomatic chapter and energy to focus on where problems and threats really exist. I am of course referring to the Turkish threat and aggression. In fact, we have been living a qualitative continuous upgrading and escalation in recent years. For our part, from the outset, we have said that it is certainly a compromise between the EEZ and Italy, but it is in a positive direction. At the same time, we said that it should be accompanied by an overall strategic framework on the one hand the expansion of Greece's territorial waters in the Ionian Sea and on the other, an active policy with tangible results for similar agreements with Albania and Egypt, which we all understand is one of the issues discussed by the Greek Foreign Minister in Cairo today. We therefore believe that it is important to have such a policy. From there on, as a party and our Chief have repeatedly stressed the need for a council of political leaders to draw up a national line in the south-eastern Mediterranean, as well as a whole on foreign policy and national issues that we are seeing constantly evolving and new data. In this sense, we believe that there should be information from the Government, there must be a clear dialogue and convergence of the Council of Political Heads. In conclusion, I will say that tomorrow there will be a teleconferencing conference of the European Council. We believe - and we have said this repeatedly - that the Greek Prime Minister should raise the issues of Turkish aggression and the work of migrants. At European level we should discuss what has been done in relation to Libya and the Turkish seafarer's attitude. Mr Mitsotakis has avoided it so far, but we believe that this time he should raise these issues in a clear way, stressing that any violation on the part of Turkey should bring about clear European sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. I now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Christo Katsotis. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Our rapporteur has put forward the reasons why we do not ratify the Moroccan-Greek Agreement. The reasons for this are that it meets the needs and demands of the shipowners and is against seafarers. This is reflected in all aspects of the JRC's rapporteur. On the issues that took place in connection with developments in the region, and in particular with the issue of FOZ, the JRC a few days ago referred to the agreement on the development of maritime zones between Greece and Italy on the basis of the announcements by the Foreign Ministers. We said that this agreement does not exist and we said that it is an agreement that serves the interests and planning of the urban classes of the two Member States, NATO and the European Union that are involved in all these imperialist competitions that are under way, with painful consequences for the peoples of the region. We are also saying that this is not a historic day, as they have said. They do not take into account all those who speak of a historic day that demarcation of the continental continent between the two countries in 1977 did not serve people's interests and did not slow down the exacerbation of the problems in the wider region, and the same applies to demarcation of the EEZ between Cyprus, Israel, Egypt and Lebanon. The claims also that the agreement between Greece and Italy neutralises the legal and political arguments that the Turkish leadership currently exploits in the context of the escalation of aggression in the Eastern Mediterranean are supersufficient and undermines alarming and dangerous developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean Sea, the Middle East and North Africa. The JRC has long ago supported the fact that the demarcation of maritime zones and the right of islands to continental shelf and EEZ stems from the 1982 international convention and the Law of the Sea and condemned the unacceptable agreement between Turkey and Libya, but also the authorisation of Turkey's state-owned oil company for research on the Greek shelf that circumvents the rights of the Greek islands. On the issue of Egypt, Egypt's approach to questioning the boundaries of the EEZ between itself and Cyprus is insulting on the substance and the agreement between Cyprus and Israel. Egypt's attempt to cancel the agreement signed in 2003 with Cyprus for the EEZ and "beat" Turkey as a third party in the game of a new agreement, is equivalent to accepting the Turkish claims against the Kastelorizos continent and the EEZ and challenging Greece's sovereign rights. If these move forward, the way opens for more overall reclassifications with regard to the maritime borders in the region and the definition of EEZs between neighbouring states, each of which of course forms alliances depending on the wider interests of its own bourgeois order and of course its allies and its interests. As a result of all this, competition in the region for energy sources and roads is exacerbated. This also reveals the confession on the part of Egypt that questioning the limits of EEZ and Cyprus is because by redefining Egypt aspires to extract areas with rich energy deposits that are now in Cypriot, Israeli and even Greek EEZs, as the media writes. This is the one side of the issue. The other is about the energy pipelines and the dimension that other sources give in relation to Egypt's initiative to put pressure on Cyprus for the boundaries of the EEZs. Of particular interest is the assessment that Egypt's attitude is directly linked to the troika's pressures on the Government of Cyprus to cancel the plans for building a terminal on the island that will save the gas from the Cypriot deposits, in order to promote it in the Nabucco West pipeline, in competition with the TAP that has taken place in the region. This is a complex situation. Competition and conflicts are growing in the region, so we say that our country should, based on the law of the sea, define a maritime border and the AEZ in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u32	The reason for two minutes is the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas. Then Mr. Bukouros will speak and the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, thank you very much. I would not have taken the floor, since the President analysed everything. I just think we should not give an answer, but be heard here today at the National Representation: SYRIZA mentioned the national anniversary today, an anniversary for the Ambassadors' Agreement. I really am, Mr President, in listening to this phrase. It's not an anniversary. It is a black anniversary for our country, a black anniversary for our country, when two years ago in that tsame that set up there in Prespes, the crime against Macedonia and against Greece was completed. It is a day that we must not remember and not one day mention in the Greek Parliament. I would like to ask the Government and Members of the New Democracy: Do they agree that this is an anniversary day today, a day that solved too many problems and brought peace and tranquillity to our region or is it a black day, a black day for history, for Greece, for our country, for Macedonia? I would therefore like the parliamentary representative following the New Democracy Government to reply. Does SYRIZA agree that it is a national anniversary, or is it a black anniversary, or is it the suppressed Ambassadors' Agreement? Today we should have no place to hide about what we signed two years ago and be ashamed of it, not to mention it as a day of success and problem-solving. Secondly, SYRIZA said a moment ago that the agreement with Italy was a compromise agreement, but in a positive direction. I would like to say to the national Parliament that compromises are made and Greece is not defeated. It should not make such compromises when it comes to matters of national sovereignty, national wealth. They don't fit compromises for ours. That's it. And I conclude by saying that we are pleased that the Greek Solution contributes to this constructive dialogue on very critical issues and has brought to Parliament today and there has been a debate scheduled for such serious issues, such as the declaration or demarcation of an EOZ, but also that it has been made clear once again today that the will, the desire of the Greek Solution to become a Council of Political Heads is also the desire and desire of both the Change Movement and SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u34	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Christos Boukokos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. First let me draw attention to my conviction that foreign policy is not exercised either by speculation or by the creation of impressions. The scope of international diplomacy and international relations in general is a tough and demanding field, which is less than friendships and more of interest. In this context, and given that Turkey has indeed upgraded its provocation, its aggression lately, the Greek Government has been called upon to cope, to build alliances both in the European and in the Mediterranean environment and to strengthen the country's position. And that's exactly what the government of Mitsotakis does. Let me say that I do not consider it so stylish politically, when Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikolaos Dendias meets with the leader of Egypt and in about a quarter with the counterpart of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Egypt to discuss this critical issue, we here have to speculate, appreciate, say what we accept and in any case do not accept and in any case enter issues from the Greek Parliament that have not yet put into place, at least in an official manner, nor the tomorrow's Contracting Parties. I would therefore like to call for cooling, seriousness, rationality and rationality. Real defence of national interests takes place when the national effort is based and not when there are attempts to gain political benefits within this framework. The political benefits - you know - are then judged by signatures and agreements. After all, the current government listens with caution to all parties. I have heard the colleagues who have already spoken. Isn't the Prime Minister who regularly briefs all these issues to the political leaders? Isn't there the National Council where the Permanent Representatives of the parties permanently informs them? So where is the information deficit and the secret diplomacy? We must now come to the Mediterranean, and if the government builds alliances. Ladies and gentlemen, aren't there two State Department announcements in the last few days and also the American State Secretary for Foreign Affairs? Isn't there a lot of European top officials condemning Turkey's provocation in the Mediterranean, and basically blame this growing tension in Turkey? We have no illusions that if we are called to defend our national interests, we will be waiting for foreigners. Greece is strong and prepared. He must, however, build alliances and that is what he has signed up for an EEZ with Italy, which has been demanding for decades. It was, however, signed by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. As laid down by another government - co-government, if you like, dear Andreas - a few years ago the issue of EEZs in general, such as from another previous New Democracy government became Greece's energy hub with the networks energy, for the first time in its history. Are we erasing all this, and are there just the signatures of the EEZs that are strengthening the position of the country in the Mediterranean? Because, indeed, we believe that our national interests are not simply enclosed in the Aegean. They're touching the Eastern Mediterranean too. Aren't these all the transnational agreements we're signing? Is it not the signature of East Med that strengthens the country's presence in the Eastern Mediterranean with a great peace project such as this pipeline? So, is the government inconvenient after everything I've gleaned in a few minutes and many other actions? Is there an inside information deficit? Of course not. Are there any discussions with our partners in the European Union and NATO? Of course, yes. Proof of their locations lately. So, what exactly is the government accused of? I am once again invoking the objective of an articulate national unity, which is more necessary than ever, for the reason we have all spoken about, to upgrade the threats to the neighbour. It is a necessary prerequisite for anything, the irreversible national front. So let us wait for today's foreign minister's negotiations in Egypt, where, in fact, reaching an agreement on the signing of an EEZ not only will strengthen our country in the wider region but also weaken the legally unacceptable and politically-founded Turkey - Libyan pact. So all this is a great puzzle for the completion of which the government is working with a plan, with calmness and rationality, with the aim of always creating a national front for the better defence of national interests, and as things so far show, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not be misinterpreted, and let us not create issues in this Chamber which our opponents do not even raise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis, has the floor to conclude today's debate in the relevant draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. The ratification of the current agreement on maritime transport between the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco, an agreement initiated by the previous government, creates the necessary institutional framework for maritime cooperation between the two countries and is the starting point for further deepening relations between the two countries, since we all know that Greek shipping is the great strategic advantage and stockpile of this country and opens up economic and commercial routes further between a country, which has a huge comparative strategic advantage, by strengthening its port infrastructure. What I want to make quite clear is that all these maritime agreements are heterogeneous in favour of Greek maritime interests. And let us not forget that the Greek merchant shipping has remained the world's first shipping with the largest merchant fleet, 20% of the world's fleet and 53% of the trade, and that obviously cannot be seen. In particular, through the conclusion of bilateral maritime agreements with third countries, the legal security for our country's maritime operators is sought in full and over time, to facilitate the work of seafarers, as well as the best possible conditions for the Greek and Greek fleets to operate internationally. We're not just staying here. We, as Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, because we want to further increase the competitiveness of Greek shipping, we have already signed - we signed with the Ministry of Digital Governance - the upgrading of the ports' security and communication infrastructures with the Ministry, and we also promote the signing of a programme agreement with the Ministry of Digital Governance, the implementation of the integrated information system project for our shipping, through which we seek to simplify and speed up the procedures for an integrated system, which will serve both Greek and Greek shipping, the Greek navy and we will do the digital transformation of the Ministry of Shipping. Electronic register, electronic certificates for both ships and seafarer, digital services for the GGE. Finally, because a lot has been said in this House today on foreign and defence policy issues, what I want to assure you is that the government has a comprehensive strategic plan to promote our country's national and sovereign rights. This design is successfully implemented at many parallel levels, at diplomatic level and at defence cooperation level. The agreement with Italy on the AOZ, the successful visit of the Prime Minister to Israel, the talks with Egypt, are part of this planning. The Greek people can be sure that the government of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis defends the fairs of our country and promotes our national interests in the best way. So, with this catalytic intervention, I would like to thank all my colleagues, because ratification of the current maritime cooperation agreement with Morocco confirms that Greek shipping is a national matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u38	And we thank the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the Articles and the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is adjourned at the end of the debate: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Transport'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u39	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u40	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u41	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Transport’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u43	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-18-S1-commons.u44	With the agreement of the House at 11.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 19 June 2020 at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
