ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In the context of the Prime Minister's time, the debate will take place on number 864/33/29-6-20, a topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement Mr. Fotinis (Photo) Genuines to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "In a new deadlock in the economy and work, the government's policy leads. Speaking times are understood in accordance with Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure: For the questioner, ten minutes in order to develop the timely question and five minutes in relation to his denology. And for the Prime Minister, twenty minutes for the protology and ten minutes for his denology. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Fofi Gennimata, then has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u2	Prime Minister, the image you're trying to present all this time has nothing to do with real life outside this Chamber. She's a fake. There is a crisis in the economy, there is a crisis in society. The reason why I asked you to come here today, in the House, was not just to answer me or to answer us, but mainly to give answers to the Greek people, who are already having a hard time. And I'd like to catch up with you all along. We have never said that there is a 'leaf tree'. We, in time and responsiblely, presented the interim programme, a programme targeted, realistic, costly, with the aim of keeping the society and the economy alive. Unfortunately, you didn't hear us. And the worst of all is that either you don't see or you don't want to see the problems. There are problems that I find everywhere around me in front of me in Rhodes, Kastelorizo, Kozani, Kastoria, Ptolemaida, Florina, problems that the representatives of workers and producer bodies carry to me every day. Because, despite the distances of the quarantine, we are in a line with Greek society, and that is why I am here today, so that their voice can be heard loudly. Mr. Mitsotakis, you're on the wrong track! You are bound by your conservative policies, you are a prisoner of your races, because you want to abolish labour rights that have endured even within the crisis and in the memorials, you are indeed sweeping what you are in front of you, and of course, you are bound by the inability of your ministers. This road, however, leads to ruins, deadlocks, businesses and workers, is launching recession and unemployment, leading to lockdowns and poverty. They are your own ministers, who foresee a recession for the second quarter of 2020 to 16% and a total of 8%. It's nightmareous numbers, which have consequences catastrophic to Greek society. By two hundred and fifty thousand, jobs decreased in the first five months of 2020, less than 2019. I understand what you will tell me, Mr Mitsotakis, 'yes, but what can we do? They are the consequences of the pandemic." There is no doubt that things have been burdened by the pandemic. But, Mr Mitsotakis, the governments are for the difficult ones. That's where they look. You are not to watch, observe and use problems and pandemic as an alibi. The measures you have taken so far are insufficient and you have taken them too late and are implemented with even greater effect, with, above all, tourism going through really hard, trying. Go ahead, Prime Minister, with the logic of seeing and doing. As far as tourism is concerned, you know very well that the economy and the final rate of recession and unemployment will depend on whether we can save something this year from the tourist season. Despite fine words, only 30% -35% of seasonal hotels have been opened so far. This means that tens of thousands of seasonal workers will live in poverty in the next period. What were you supposed to do? We suggested that you give strong incentives to open the hotels and work the workers and make the Greek product attractive and competitive. And we told you how! First reduce VAT on accommodation and catering to 6%. You can do it, even now. Finally, make the advance tax payment zero for the firms affected. It's a noose on their necks. Can you compare 2019 data to 2020 data? You're all announcing it, but it's all backwards. Increase the repayable advance to at least 3 billion. It's the only way to get oxygen to business and you know that. Now make a big package of social tourism. Of course, reinforce health units, health centers, hospitals. Organize mobile workshops at primary level, with house visits. We've been calling this for so many months. We suggested it to you. We've accepted it. What about this? You know very well that the only way to make timely and proper tracking and effective monitoring. And we call that because Greece can't take another lockdown, neither general nor local. It's the only way to avoid it. You didn't. What did you do? You reduced VAT only on coffee and orangeade. Not even in wine, which you could support Greek producers that way. You proceeded to a programme of social tourism, Prime Minister, which proved to be 'irreversible'. Of the forty - nine thousand two thousand accommodation officially available in the country, participation said only 4%. Why did that happen? Because obviously your program is not attractive to mobilize businesses and to participate, they have no incentive to do so. I'm going to the health protocols. It's too late. On June 1, the first hotels were opened without any guidance on what should be done. You came after saying that the country would be separated into sanitary zones. Destroying for the islands, mourning, blocking! From the outcry and our reaction, you had to get it back. You then come and you say they have to be found, it says, quarantine rooms, second catastrophe. You started after looking for quarantine hotels. Inconceivable last-minute improvisations on such a crucial, so serious issue for the country to continue to be a safe destination. And, finally, a breath before the airports open, you remembered to bring in the obligation to complete a special form for international flights - Cyprus had done so a month ago - and, of course, to come a series of cancellations and discredit Greek tourism. Now you're running to ball them. Of course, since you were unable to organize mobile workshops for which we have so many times spoken, you were led to the army. You understand, Prime Minister, it's not the best thing to be a tourist and welcome you to the airport. The second result of your policy is that there is no liquidity in business. What were you supposed to do? Following the liquidity measures announced by the European Central Bank, did you have to ensure generous liquidity enhancement programmes for enterprises, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, on what basis? Their viability. I won't get tired of repeating it. What did you do? You let unaccompanied banks run the risk and put obstacles. TEPIX II, Prime Minister, was a very unpleasant experience for the majority of enterprises. Of the 100 000 companies, which applied for a total loan of EUR 10 billion, ten thousand seven hundred applications were approved, i.e. about one out of ten. And you know what the total amount was? It was EUR 1.29 billion, i.e. the programme proves to be much lower than needs. I come to the programme of the Guarantee Fund, in other words, loans guaranteed by the public sector by 80%. Applications totalling EUR 16.5 billion have been submitted and only EUR 3.5 billion will be allocated in the first phase of the programme. What about the worst? With the criteria set out and the obstacles raised by the banks, the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises remain out of liquidity. The result? They're sentenced to lock-ups, Prime Minister. In fact, banks are dealing with good customers once again, with the strong, with the few, those who do not really need support at this hour. Auctions begin in September and you are only talking about temporary relief with a loan subsidy. We have proposed a definitive sustainable and effective solution, especially for weaker borrowers and deny it. You are left with simple spectators, Mr. Mitsotakis, in the slaughter of the small and medium-sized ones. That's it! This cannot go on! That's not a rhetorical thing I'm saying. Get to the trouble of reading the recent U.S.S. investigation. Eight out of ten businesses, Prime Minister, are facing great problems and one out of three is afraid to put a lock on it. Two out of ten say that they will proceed to forced redundancies next time. Four out of ten say that they will not be able to meet their tax and insurance obligations. And, beware, six out of ten think that government measures to support them are inadequate. Change it, change it now! Increase the amounts of aid, meet the needs. Give the banks to understand, Prime Minister, that they have been recapitalised three times by the Greek people's money and now the time has come to put a strong "plate" to stand on their feet and not to leave the economy unless it does not worry you. The third result of your policy is that there is absolutely no support for farmers and production. What were you supposed to do? What did we propose? Before all, you had to give up 50% of the aid in advance of EUR 850 million. Have enabled the de minimis mechanism, so that you can compensate the damaged bins. To buy products directly from producers and to make them available to weak social groups. To cover the State 40% of wages or wages and salaries in rural enterprises, which will employ unemployed persons registered in the OAED. You know there's a very big problem with land workers. And for farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises to be abolished the trade end. We've been calling it that long. You agreed. Why don't you do it? What are you doing? Essentially nothing at all. Farmers are completely uncovered. No action to support farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, oil producers, viticulture, intensive farming and rural enterprises. The new CAP, of course, does not talk about it. No preparation is being made for the necessary change in the ELGA regulation to compensate for, to cover the new conditions due to climate change, not to say the climate crisis, which we already have in our country. Ministers are now announcing Community aid. But come on, when the European Parliament's Special Committee on Agriculture decides, and it is revealed that from the funds it provides, 13 to 14 000 farmers will benefit from only six hundred thousand who are active in this sector, i.e. mockery! I left for the end, Prime Minister, the great victims of your policy. Here, Mr Mitsotakis, I will not start with what you should do and have proposed for you, because the government has not simply demonstrated inadequacy or incompetence in the world of work. Here's a plan. You are consciously taking advantage of the crisis as an opportunity to launch an unprecedented attack on labour rights. That's the reality. You preferred instead of the work subsidy programme that we proposed to you, to give a poverty benefit while maintaining workers on a job suspension. In addition, for those who work, you are attempting to apply your doctrine "half-wage job" through the program "COMPANY - WORK". Where does that lead? This leads to the generalization of parttime work and a direct reduction in the wages of workers by 20%. You're shaping working jungle conditions, Prime Minister. You insist that only part-time work be subsidised. Take the decision, your program failed. Only 6% of the anticipated workers have joined it. And I come to the other big issue, I have told you at least three times in this Chamber. Refugee unjustifiedly for six months to declare the sectoral contract compulsory in tourism and foodism. What does that mean? It means that four hundred thousand workers in this sector are in the air and in an even more difficult position now. And we're talking waiters, distributors, deliberations. You don't care. You have no answer to give us. Moreover, you have allowed too many hoteliers to blackmail their employees. They are forced to sign paper that they will not be re-entered in 2021, as provided by the law. And you know that's what's going on. And you leave uncovered tens of thousands of tourist workers with flexible working conditions even from the allowance. And the worst part of all is that three hundred thousand unemployed registered in the OAED still have no support from the state, as if they could under these conditions now find a job. It's not the first time we've told you and we're not getting any answers. Prime Minister, the path you are following leaves many and only supports the few and the powerful. You have a responsibility as government for what follows. And you'll be judged for that. Do not rest from the oval of temporary polls, nor from the lack and unreliability of Officer Opposition. Prime Minister, at this time in Greece there are two roads. One is the way of supposedly returning to normality, a conservative road, a path that supports the few. And it's the way you choose. The other way is the path of new change, it is the way we propose. And that is why, together with the Greek society, we are working on the new social contract, the social contract of change, an alternative, progressive proposal, which gives way, hope and perspective to the Greek people. That's why we're here. The Change Movement is a shield in democracy and a support for the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u3	The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u4	The most effective shield for the protection of democracy, Mrs Gennimata, is Parliament's uninterrupted and smooth functioning. And I am very pleased that, as a year has passed since the country's governance has been taken over, parliamentary order and parliamentary regularity have been fully restored, despite the adversities that have arisen because of the coronary. I am regularly in this House to answer questions at the time of the Prime Minister, while this year, Mr President, eighty-eighth of all legislation has been passed. I consider it particularly important that, in the context of parliamentary control, members of the government, Ministers and State Secretarys, have responded to six hundred and sixty-eight questions from fellow Members, thereby strengthening the parliamentary control procedure. Mrs Gennamata, I have listened carefully to the questions you have raised and to the questions you have raised in the timely question you have put to me and I am here today to answer, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to say a number of additional measures to strengthen the real economy and, in particular, the world of work, measures which we have planned and which we are able to communicate today, because we now have all the data available to us, so that we can speak with concrete information. I will start by saying that today is, I believe, a good day in total for development in the country, as, after nineteen years from the day the old airport of Greece closed, the projects for the new investment in the Greek with the prospect of creating a large, largest metropolitan park in the country, as well as a combined development that will, in its full growth, create eighty thousand jobs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I would like to tell you that getting to this point was not entirely self-evident. By doing our own self-criticism, I can tell you that we too had underestimated the degree of complicity, complexity, bureaucratic stunts and the problems we have inherited from the past. But, thanks to the systematic and methodical work of all the co-responsible ministries, we have managed to resolve all the outstanding issues and to start this investment today, symbolizing the passage from the old grey Greece of yesterday, to a lighter, more optimistic development of tomorrow. I say this because it is particularly important to start in the middle of the coronary crisis, because we must not forget, Mrs Gennamas, that we are talking here about a crisis that is exogenous and unprecedented in terms of its size and its intensity. It seems all the time from the criticism that this is something we forget. We have been here as a result of an extremely unforeseen event, an unforeseen event which will plunge the world economy into a recession that the planet has not lived since the 1930s. So that is what we are facing right now, that is the reality that we are called upon to manage. And we're trying - and I'm going to talk about it then - this exogenous recession to make it as mild as possible and at the same time into the crisis, to lay the foundations for a rapid recovery when the vaccine against the coronary is well found and we leave behind this health adventure. We have said many times that trying to make forecasts on the level of the 2020 recession is a theoretical exercise. I have heard you invoke various predictions for the future too. I'm the only one who can do it on the basis of the data we already have. So let us see what the data we already have and which are not questionable. Firstly, the recession in the first quarter of 2020 was significantly less than the corresponding recession in the rest of the euro area, that is, 0.9% compared with 3.6%. Secondly, in March - April, industrial production in the country decreased by 7.4%, but four times less - look out! - from the European average. In Europe industrial production has collapsed by 27.7% in these two months. In other words, the national economy has done relatively better or less badly than the rest of Europe. We know, however, that the impact on growth, both in the second and third quarters, will be dramatic. Things are gonna be really bad. We know that, we never hid it. So by coming here and presenting with sometimes rhetorical outbursts a difficult situation in the real economy, you do nothing more than describe what we have spoken about many times. That's the situation! We are experiencing an unprecedented economic crisis. We have never hidden it, and the point is that we should come here to talk about what we can do in order to ease it. I saw you didn't insist much on this. I think you did well. Because invoking the argument that the crisis existed in the country before the coronary, which is the main argument of the Officerial Anti-Population, I think that you, too, understand that it cannot withstand any criticism, once you see the results of the economy, the improvement of the country's credibility, what happened this eight-month period before the coronary hits. The best proof - I insist on this - is that in January and February the Greek economy was going excellently. And that's why the quarter's evidence wasn't so bad. That's the explanation, which is there. So, at least, we agree in this Chamber that we are facing a crisis that is exogenous and which concerns the coronary. The Greek economy had entered a dynamic developmental orbit before the crisis and now we are faced with the consequences of an event that I have already described. In terms of employment, you say that in the first five months of 2020, jobs have decreased by two hundred and fifty thousand. A mistake must have been made here, because you know that in most of this period, Mrs Gennamas, redundancies were banned in the affected companies. However, because I sought the data from 'ERGAN' in April, the recruitment balance was positive. In June, "ERGANI" recorded thirty-seven thousand five hundred sixty more recruitments, eight thousand more than last year. More than half are full-time jobs. While it is interesting to see one - I will come back to it and then - the elements of GEMH, how business is created and what has happened a year ago. Let's see, then, business creation figures in the quarter of December 2019 to February 2020, i.e. just before the coronary hits. If you compare time with time, what happened last year, what happens this year, you will see that we had an improvement of 43%. Two thousand four hundred and three more businesses were created and a thousand fifty-five fewer. So that was the situation before the coroner found us. And these are elements which I do not think can be called into question. Look, I do not claim that in the phase in which the economy can create new jobs. This is something that should concern us in the immediate future. That is why the government is discussing a more innovative programme, which will encourage the creation of new jobs, in addition to the effort we are currently making to support existing jobs. But here, what we have achieved so far is to prevent a sharp increase in unemployment, as it is seen in many other European countries and in America, which is even worse, where they have a labour market that is totally flexible and totally deregulated, I would say. What have we done, Mrs. Gennamas? And I am surprised that you are criticizing us in this as a party that defines itself as a centre-left party. The State took over the cost of private sector wages. That's what happened. That should normally be the fantasy of every central left government. However, a liberal government has come to do so because it has above all emphasised the protection of jobs and the income of workers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We do not discuss the right-wing solutions here. The protection of vulnerable people and, above all, the protection of employment is our first priority, and that is where we have focused our attention. We are being criticised for the programme 'COMPANY WORK'. With great ease, you described it as a loser. I wonder why, Mrs. Gennamas? Why do you adopt this view in particular? I was expecting it from others, not from you. It's half a job, half a payroll? Really, is that half the payroll? Don't you know it's not half the payroll? Didn't you know that the programme is structured in such a way that someone working half the hours gets almost 100% of their salary? If I make the reduction, in other words, to how much the time is paid, more is paid, having full cover of insurance contributions. Is this half-work and half-wage? Take it back, please. I'm expecting it from others. I don't expect you to. I expect an objective imprint of reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We did have a number of issues relating to the specific circular that defined the details of the 'ASSO-WORK' programme. We have sat down and worked a lot with employers and workers, and I believe that many of these issues have been resolved so that we can make the 'COMPAN - WORK' programme more attractive. But I wonder: What's better in the end? Is it better to close a company completely or to be able to have a fixed-term, exceptional programme, which, yes, gives firms greater flexibility to be able to reorder their workforce to overcome an emergency crisis? You know, Mrs. Gennamas, who's the creator of these programs? You know that, I guess. When did these programmes first appear in Europe? You know that, I guess. I'm not telling you anything new. They are programs which were first implemented by German social democracy by Gerhard Schröder in the early 2000s. These are the programmes that we come and are implementing today. What are we actually doing? I'll explain it in very simple words. We are giving businesses full flexibility to be able either to put their staff on a standstill, to pay, that is to say, personnel from the state - and, of course, to workers in tourism means maintaining their employment relationship, so that they can then re-enter the unemployment fund so that they can re-enter 2021 - or make the best use of the provisions of the 'COMMUNICATION - WORK' programme to be able, that is to say, to exploit more workers, because they will have less turnover, and that is how the workers will have better incomes. I wonder, therefore, what the answer can be? What exactly do you propose, anyway? Because I have read very carefully because I like to be prepared for these debates, what you are proposing and I have not found a convincing alternative to how we will deal with the problem of having businesses that have much less turnover, especially tourism, which, in other words, need fewer workers and we need to find a way to cover them up until the banquet passes. In any case, these programmes are the most tested programmes in all European countries and have a centre-left ideological origin. Therefore, I am very concerned about whether your criticisms have to do with the philosophy of the programme or whether it has to do with specific project predictions. If it's the first, I'd like to understand where you're criticizing us. I could well see a criticism coming from a more neoliberal approach. I guess you're not suggesting this. If your criticism now relates to specific provisions of the 'COMPANY WORK' programme, the Minister, the Secretary-General, is here to discuss how this programme can be better. However, because we have said many times that in this crisis we have ammunition so that we can respond to the challenges of the times, but we must also have specific data available to us, I am now in a position to announce another package of measures to support the world of work and the real economy of around three and a half billion euros. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'd say, Mrs. Gennamas, because you tell us we're going to see and do, whatever we see and do. That's the answer. And we see what happens in the real economy and we adapt. So what do we do? Firstly, we zero the advance tax for enterprises whose turnover in the first half of 2019 is 35% less than that in the first half of 2019. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the remaining companies, the reduction in the advance payment - there will be specific announcements from the Ministry of Finance - will be between 30% and 70%. We're still doing something. We zero the tax advance for seasonal enterprises. Who are these? These are companies which record at least - notice - 50% of their turnover in the third quarter of the year. In other words, all tourist businesses will not pay an advance this year. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is interesting that you criticise us for something we said we would do. We had said two months ago that we would intervene in the tax advance. You there, horrors, critics! We said we'd do it in July. It doesn't make any sense. In addition, the advance tax payment has not been paid. Why is that stress? Why that kind of premiere? I think that this government has shown that it is a credible government and what it says is doing. Also, half an advance will be paid by the free professionals who are not subject to VAT. In total this is an intervention of 1.5 billion. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, you have seen, Mrs Gennamas, that we are also adopting some of your proposals, because we are also inaugurating a third cycle of repayable advance of 1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u5	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u6	This will now involve individual businesses without employees and without cash machine, i.e. people in seasonal accommodation, in the activities of the tourist industry. It will be paid on the basis of the turnover of June, July, August. It is a significant injection of liquidity, absolutely necessary for businesses, which will try and keep themselves above water and which now need this liquidity, which - there I will agree with you, but not for the full dimension of your criticism - liquidity often cannot be found from the banking system. I want to give some evidence of what we've done so far with the repayable advance. I would remind you that her second phase will be paid next week. You spoke about tourism. Seven thousand tourism businesses will get a repayable advance. It will be paid next week. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] About twenty thousand businesses have benefited from the repayable advance. They work around three hundred thousand workers. If we go now to the other liquidity programmes, the existing interest subsidy programme has benefited over forty thousand companies and they employ three hundred and twenty thousand workers and so far the TPIX mechanism, for which we have been strongly criticised, has benefited 12 000 seven hundred and seventy-seven small and medium-sized enterprises having disbursed a total of 1.7 billion. It's about the level of the programme as we've set it out. And we are still waiting for the accounting data for the guarantee programme, so that we can close this intervention cycle with the support of the liquidity of the real economy. Look, we have said and done so - this exercise has been carried out by both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development - on a weekly basis we are monitoring disbursements. Once the state comes and makes a guarantee, we have the requirement that these banks make use of them and support the real economy and support businesses that are viable, but are currently facing a major liquidity problem. To distinguish between companies with a liquidity problem and companies with a viability problem. But, allow me, Mrs Gennimata, I hear the argument that the Greek taxpayer has recapitalised the banks three times after paying tens of billions. You remember the last recapitalisation, days that are now, so that we don't forget, what was going on in this country five years ago, result of the tragic manipulations of July 2015. The fact that we have recapitalised the banks does not mean that the banks are able today to create a new generation of red loans, because the big problem of the banking system remains the red loans. So, obviously, there will be bank criteria for granting the funds. I don't suppose anyone's claiming anything different. The state simply comes with European resources adding the state guarantee, to make this funding easier, more varrant. But, of course, the large number of enterprises are companies that benefited, benefited and will benefit from the repayable advance, which will reach EUR 3 billion in total. Measure 3: The 60% subsidy from the state of all employers' contributions to the programme 'COMPANY WORK' is extended for both August and September and October. It's about 600 million. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Measure 4: Seasonal enterprises, tourism enterprises, that is, as we have defined them before - and I would like to stress that this is an ad hoc definition of seasonality, we define as a seasonal business, I repeat, businesses that do at least 50% of their turnover in July, August and September - will not pay any employers' contributions for the quarter of July - August - September. It's another 600 million. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, as I said before, the possibility of suspending the workers' contract throughout the tourism sector is extended by the fifth measure. It is something that concerns too many hotels, seasonal accommodations, tourist agencies, throughout the trade in tourist species. The fine shops, that is, I saw in Santorini, which live exclusively from tourism, and which fall under this category. Why are we doing this? For the simple reason that we should give businesses the full opportunity to decide for themselves what percentage they want to put workers on suspension and what percentage they want to use 'ACT-WORK'. But our program leaves no one uncovered. As far as your discussion of unemployment benefits is concerned, these have been extended, as you know, and our aim is to support this difficult situation and the unemployed, who obviously have great difficulty in getting back into the labour market when we have such a deep economic crisis. Mrs. Gennamas, I close by telling you that as we are in uncharted waters, no program can be static. We have said too many times - and we will not get tired of saying so - that our interventions are dynamic, that we have guarded ammunition so that we can make use of them when we are sure that we have the opportunity to do so, and when the circumstances so require. I would like to remind you that during the entire crisis, the state strengthened its cash resources. We gave six months insect notes at a rate of 0.13%. When we were out at the beginning of June at 0.25%, we issued ten years of bonds in the crisis at a loan cost of 1.57%. Today, the ten years - I did not see where it is today - is under the ten years of Italy, just over 1%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All of this is things that they'd fantasize unthinkably a year ago. But - and I want to say it again - I do not underestimate the scale of the crisis. The crisis is deep and it is painful especially for the world of work. We will always be here to discuss creatively with the opposition, to confront ourselves ideologically, because this is our job, and to incorporate ours into the arguments and the measures that will be taken by any creative and productive proposal that comes in good faith from the opposition. It is something that I believe we have proved throughout this government's term of office, and it is something that we will be called upon to do again and in a flagship bill, which will be coming for discussion next week in this House, that is to say, in plenary, regarding public meetings. In this bill we want to hear your proposals. I see Mr Kamine, who was the first-timer of this initiative, when he was the mayor of Athens and fully recognised the obvious, that no right is a right when he is not demarcated within a framework and that the rights of the protester should also respect the rights of the shopkeeper, the citizen of this city, who is permanently and systematically suffering from very small marches that completely disrupt social life. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We wanted this bill to come to debate now. That's why we're late. We did not want it to be discussed with a reduced number of Members. Now that the House is returning to normal pace, we are bringing the bill to a vote, and I would really like to find a compromise in this area. We have shown that we have all the will to be able to discuss and incorporate your creative proposals as well. I stress that this requires a glance at the things that are not based on catastrophe, the sterile opposition to the opposition, and yet it will not try to regain an opposition on brags and slums and a picture of a country that is definitely part of the past. I hope and hope that this is not the level of dialogue in this Parliament, at least from you. I am sure that we will be able to make a substantial qualitative controversy, which will leave behind a phrase and a way of expressing political speech which I believe is now a definitive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u7	And now it's the order of seconds. The Chairman of the parliamentary group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennamas, is called at Step for its dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u8	Prime Minister, I must say you don't let a man sanctify. I said that we should come here to have a mild civilised debate, but when I hear you making me and our party criticism of opposition with scarlets and masses, I cannot leave it unanswered, Mr Mitsotakis, because you started the anti-immemorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u9	I didn't say that about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u10	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u11	I remember you in the front line in the Zappeion. Your own members and your own MPs were in the squares of the indignant. I would therefore withdraw to you, in order and in truth, because, at one time in this Chamber, truths must be spoken about history and how we have reached this point. And since you are speaking to me about returning to the normality of Parliament, I would remind you of how many ministerial amendments have been unresolved with the bills being discussed at the last minute without any consultation and without any discussion on the relevant committees of this House. That is not what I call 'normality'. Rather, this term has something special to do with your perception and your party. We first did not get any forecasts of the recession. That's what your ministers say. So the answers to the predictions that you give them to your ministers rather than to me. We didn't describe any situation. We told you what you should have done, because we did not stick to the findings. I told you before that we presented a whole programme very early on about what we should have done. What can I do to keep the ammunition around us if there's only one remains? When are you gonna drop these when it's too late? Or don't you care? Or will your priority be to support only the few and the strong, to change the production base of the economy, that is to say, what the lenders, who have been trying to do with the defilement of the production base for all these years of the memoranda, have not achieved? And you come to me and you tell me about the work subsidy program and you teach me social democracies? I thought to date that this mask was only once by Mr. Tsipras, but it seems that many are jealous of it now that they see it as the only solution and the only way to give answers! However, genuine social democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, namely the Change Movement, has presented a work subsidy programme that ensures that there will be no redundancies and no adverse changes in the terms of the workers' contract. That's what the original social democracies say. And how does that work? It works because it at the same time has support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, because that is where the many jobs are. However, you are not concerned either with small and medium-sized enterprises or with the workers. You're doing an alchemy. You are doing an alchemy with the 'COMPAN - WORK' grant programme. You know it hasn't worked. And to tell you things clearly by their name, for a 1,000-euro employee, the employer will pay the 500 euros, half a wage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u12	How long will it work?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u13	The state will give the 300 euros. The worker will first lose 200 euros. Until when is this going to happen? Until September, because then your support expires. And then what's gonna stay? Half the payroll is going to be left. EUR 500 and part-time work will be left. That's the truth you're hiding from the Greek people, and that's why we're here today, to tell all the truths! All in the light, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And that's enough! It is obvious from the answers you give us that you are determined to continue exactly the same policy that leads to deadlocks, padlocks, half-work and half-wages. This will be the daily life of the Greek citizens for the next few months. And, of course, under our great pressure, you had to announce additional measures. But what does that actually say when you come on 3 July to announce what we have been telling you since May? It means that you recognize yourself that what you have announced was inadequate. Of course, now that you are coming to tell us this, it is already too late, too late. You're telling me we're criticizing you for something you've announced. You went out and filed a complaint and said that you were discussing the zero tax advance, but you would specialize in July. I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, what serious businessman decides in June to open his business when he knows that the reality picture of the context before him is uncertain and will be given a month later? Do you know someone who takes this risk under these circumstances? And you're telling me I'm criticizing you? I will make you and we will continue to do you dynamically both inside and outside the House! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And, furthermore, I want to tell you the other one. At least take care of what you announced today, the extra, the delays, to apply them, because we have this problem too! It's not enough you're stalling to say it, you don't even apply it! The hotel officials went to find the platform for the 534 euros, because they are invited to live, you told them that they would open from July 1st and find nothing! And now the Minister responsible tells them 'Come again on 7 July'. Here we will be and we will wait to see what happens if they will at last get those crumbs of poverty! You spoke about the projects that are starting and about the development that comes. For now, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're only demolishing. Beyond the communication of all this, I want you to tell us a few things about the substance. First, has the Greek contract been finally signed with the company that has taken over the investment? Secondly, is it true that for the next three, three and a half years, the only thing to be built is the casino and the mall? These, of course, have to go ahead and go ahead, but they are about the businessman's profits. They have nothing to do with the renewal of the region and all the things that Attica has been asking for and the jobs you are announcing, which have been transferred for many years now. You won't even be in the government, Mr. Mitsotakis, when these jobs come. I must admit that you have a very strange concept of development. I am referring to your announcements about the sudden death of the only economic activity in western Macedonia, because I came a few days ago from there and I have it very handy. 'Lignite', you said, 'end by 2023'. The question that arises, Prime Minister, is why haste, while you know that we have the opportunity to do so by 2030 and to do so smoothly and to make this transition fair and to be sustainable and not to be condemned to desertification, to abandonment, because it already has enormous unemployment, there is no other margin. The next step is the abandonment of the area and desertification. It is obvious that you have no plan. Your people were there before me. You told me, if I found them, to ask them. I asked the people who met them. No project was presented or planned before 2024. You want to close in 2023 and the resources will start in 2024. Of course, there is also a big issue, Mr Mitsotakis, to which you must reply. Can we talk about national independence if the country is fully dependent on imported fuel? There is a huge energy security issue and you must answer why you are so hasty, without having guarantees for the next day. Speaking of your development logic, are you taxing the gambling companies - your right, your choice - but, at the same time, what are you doing? You're taxing 20% of retired people who will get retroactively with three years of delay. It's called justice! By the way, I would like to tell you that the EMCDDA has deficits for 2020 that will exceed EUR 2 billion, and the Agency has already put a hand in its reserves to pay pensions. At this time when we are talking about a hundred and seventy thousand pensioners are waiting - they are not waiting now, they have been waiting for many years to retire. I can catch up with you, so that you do not tell me that you have found this, saying that the outstanding pensions in the time you are running have increased by 27%. It seems that your so-called digital state does not recognize the word "retired", but does not recognize the word "declaration", because you asked me. Open the center, roadblocks in the marches and protests. But there are rights and freedoms in democracy that are unnegotiable. Yes, I am saying this clearly, so that this constitutional right does not interfere with the right to free movement of citizens and, of course, their professional activity. Because we have seen this happen in the last few years. But another regulation and a rule, Prime Minister, and a further dismantling. Because that's what you guys do. I must tell you that there are no institutional guarantees. It's not possible for the police to decide everything. This is where a situation arises, Prime Minister, where the police will stop marching and protesting and the military will welcome tourists. Where are we going exactly? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] What exactly is this climate? Where's that liberal idea of yours? We have tabled very specific proposals for the institutional guarantees and the changes needed to be made to the plan, because as it is, it is not voted on. Clear words. Bring us the institutional guarantees, we can talk seriously. But it seems, Prime Minister, that you have an allergy to institutional guarantees. You're laying down rules, but not for you. It's none of your business. Will you finally tell us, Mr Mitsotakis, what criteria and how much has been given to the media? We've been waiting so long. Let me tell you something, 'cause I love heavy talk. If you don't tell us, next Friday we'll be here again, because I'll ask you again. Because it seems I should ask you all the time to get results. Perhaps something like that will be learned or taken by the citizens. I'm seriously thinking it takes a question to you every week. Institutional initiatives, however, Prime Minister, also need to break the abscess with the para-state enclaves that do not fit into democracy. Unfortunately, you are not taking any initiative in this direction. You are confined to the micro-partial exploitation of the revelations about the para-state of SYRIZA. But don't forget: Where was it backed by the para-state, Mr. Mitsotakis? To your own people. Creation of your own party is this. We were always used to being organized by the right. It was incorporated, of course, by Mr. Tsipras. This is another conversation, I'm not going in now. The impressive thing is that you are trying in every way to keep Mr. Tsipras out of the cedar of political responsibility. Why are you doing this? Obviously, you believe it serves you to have a weak and unreliable Civic Opposition, which has neither the special weight nor the political guarantees to exercise its institutional role and effectively pressure you. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis, you are also attempting a set-aside. So much struggle has caused man to keep outside the bunker of responsibility for the crisis and the memoranda of the government of Mr Karamanlis, of the New Democracy! Well, now you, too, come in our turns and attempt the setback. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] You are wrong, however, to think that you will be undisturbed to forward your agenda to the detriment of the workers, the middle class and the weakest. We're here, the Change Movement, impediment to your conservative policy. Take the decision. Because we are the true Opposition and we are practicing programmatic, fighting, documented Opposition that is now more than ever needed. In conclusion, I would like to refer to Greek-Turkish. You insist, Mr Mitsotakis, that you refuse to convene the Council of Political Heads. In other words, refuse to form a national line at last, to shape our own red lines and to have a sloppy front inside the country, especially now that Turkey is escalating its challenges, with aggressive and illegal actions and actions. You thus assume, Prime Minister, solely the responsibility for what follows before the Greek people. But you should know that you do not have a white check on your handling. The worst of all is that your government is acting retrospectively, and that is what it costs. You didn't act as a precaution for moving to Evros. You have not acted as a precaution for Turkey's illegal memorandum - Libya, nor for Turkey's moves in the case of Ayia Sophia. Agia Sophia is a monument of UNESCO's world heritage, not only is it a Greek and Christian issue, which for us is extremely important, very serious. As far as dialogue with Turkey is concerned, I would like to tell you that, over time, we are in favour of dialogue and good neighbourly relations, but I want you to tell me, Mr Mitsotakis, why are you, who have been against this dialogue all years, as a party, choosing to start now this dialogue, which Turkey has already put you on the table? I'm waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u14	As the Prime Minister and the President of the Change Movement spoke of the parliamentary work while the step is being settled, I should like to tell you that just before I signed the eighty-sixteenth bill that this House has passed to amend the contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which makes this amazing strengthening of capacity in intensive care units in the public sector. It is interesting to see that out of the eighty-two bills we voted only five ultimately was urgent. You remember that we started with urgency and then there was an urgent urgency at the beginning. But from the eighty two in the end, only five were urgent. The Prime Minister now has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for his own dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u15	I should like to add to your argument, Mr President, that the legislative acts, which were adopted by the Government in view of the urgent situation in which we were called upon to manage, on average, have come to Parliament in ten days, not to exhaust the time limits which the Constitution gives, so that there can also be the formal legalisation of this special instrument that we have had to use for reasons that you all understand. Mrs Gennimata, I have to tell you that I always watch with interest this very critical attitude you have against our resignation, but I cannot forget that we co-existed as ministers and you were Minister of the Government of Mr Samaras. Then you didn't say all of that. Suddenly you've remembered them with a little delay. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So it's good, when we jump back into the past, we don't go bypassing the entire periods.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u16	Let me remind you that I was trying to save jobs and you were looking to find out who you're going to fire.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u17	We were together in the same government, indeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u18	We had a lot of difference even when we were inside the same government. We've had a lot of differences and conflicts since then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u19	Yes, indeed. I remember with what dynamism you did not go through the whole reform project at the Ministry of Defence - it is true - and how you have completely blocked the resolution of the defence industry in order to inherit us a series of problems that we now need to solve. Yes, it is. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, in any case, if you believed that, you could quite well not participate in this government. Above all, however! And a moral observation. You know, I was very mild in my first place, and I think I faced you with the responsibility and the seriousness you deserve. Upgrading the decibels does not necessarily make you more responsible. My reference to scarlets and piles obviously wasn't a reference to you. I thought you understood. The whole Chamber knew I wasn't talking about you. I was talking about others. The point is not to be like others, like them. This is my wish, my hope. Of course, I won't tell you how to make the opposition. My wish and hope is not to return to this kind of opposition that the place has paid very expensively. After all, 2020, as we have said many times, is not 2015 and history sometimes repeats itself as a prank. I now come to your points. Again, I find it hard to see where your specific criticism of the measures we have taken is. I have heard a criticism in particular as regards the 'Cosmos - WORK' programme, which says that the worker will lose 20% - 8% will lose after taxes and contributions - to work half a year. And yes, what we have to do is in a fair manner to burden the burden of an emergency. First responsibility lies with the state, immediately afterwards the businessman is responsible and the worker is responsible for the effort he is making. But if you believe that with some magic wand we can keep all the incomes in an economy that will suffer a deep recession, then you live on another planet, Mrs. Gennamas. I'm really sorry. Because that is something that is absolutely impossible. It hasn't been achieved by any country. And we won't be able to do that. I would say to you that as far as the priority we give to supporting the world of work is concerned, we are in front of and above measures taken by many other countries. In any case, because I do not like the labels and I have seen that the extermination, when invoking social democracy, did not say - to God - that this government became a social democratic government and that is not what we are defending. We're a centre-right liberal government. We're not claiming an intrusion into your ideological space. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, a centre-right liberal government is fully aware that the role of the state must be intervened, when there is a great need and must not be in intervention where the Western sector can regulate its own house much better. And that's what we did right now. And if this bothers some who had built stereotypes in their minds about what this New Democracy is, a so-called bad neoliberal government that cares only for the few and elites, and unfortunately what we do conflict with this image, that is not our problem. It is a problem for those who choose to criticise us. I have said many times and I will repeat it today. Our first concern, during this crisis, is to protect jobs and incomes of workers, especially in tourism. Especially in tourism, our first concern is to keep the productive tissue of tourism alive. Don't hang up hotels. Do not dismiss permanent workers. Yeah, there's gonna be a loss of income. Of course, there will be a loss in income, but there will be no loss in the employment relationship - and that is the most important - so that these people, when with good tourism has recovered again in 2021, can be hired on the same terms as they would normally work in 2020 if this unprecedented crisis had not hit us. And it is interesting because you have criticised why we are adapting our programme. Here in their own communications, "Orthos Society - Live Economy: Seven Proposals", on 6-4-2020, and on an interim programme "Orthos Society - Live Economy: Proposals", on 14-5-2020, and you update your own proposals. And we update ours. It's completely self-evident. But do not criticise us when you do exactly the same. I now come to some other issues that you have raised. Tourism. What are you saying the army welcomes? Please! They're listening to you outside Greece. We are making a huge effort at the moment to open the doors of Greece with the greatest possible security. It is a very difficult exercise, but I imagine that we all agree in this Chamber that we want to welcome visitors without jeopardising public health. You have criticised us for the so-called PLF. The so-called PLF at the moment and the algorithm we are using to identify the visitors who need to test is an example to be imitated throughout Europe. They come and ask us about this technology, because they really are innovative. We worked with scientists abroad. We are doing something that other countries have not done. And it is very important that we know - and I want to make this quite clear, we have given a short transition period until the system runs - that whoever travels to Greece must have completed this PLF electronically. He can do it at the airport. He can do it a month before he travels. But it's mandatory, because we need to know who comes to Greece and happens to test, where he is, so we can find him. So, please, in this great effort that we are currently making to advertise our country, do not come undermining it with such words that do not really respond to it at all. We have made a complete reorder of our powers, civil protection, EGE forces and, where necessary, police forces. Indeed, civil protection also has support from certain members of the Armed Forces. But you don't know these things? What do you come and say now in such a style, essentially discrediting the country itself and the effort it makes? That look doesn't suit you. And yet it does not fit in the great effort we make to save what we can from a very difficult tourist season. I come to two further points which you have raised. Lignite. And with the environment and the lignite! That's actually what you're telling us. The country took a bold initiative to get out of lignite, not only because it is environmentally extremely problematic, but also because it is extremely damaging to both PPC and all involved. You are normally supposed to have environmental sensitivities, but the left parties too should welcome this effort. And the fact that we have come out of the front line allows us to have access to many resources from the Development Fund. We talked on the phone about this and I told you that Mr Mousouroulis, who has undertaken to coordinate this difficult exercise, is at your disposal to inform you of the initiatives. You were upstairs. And today it is at your disposal to discuss together the draft of a fair transition to these areas. But I cannot understand - and this is all about the left parties - how they can at the same time protest against climate change and claim to be friends of the environment and the flagship initiative of this government, which is the closure of lignite plants, to come out across the street. They don't match those two. You can't be with lignite and environmental protection. Pick. Pick a camp, because sometimes in equal distances there is a risk of sucking your political void. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that brings me to the last point on the subject of paths. We will have a chance to meet in plenary, to discuss this more thoroughly. You'll do whatever you think. This bill will be passed by this government. This is unnecessarily unnecessarily. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And as you have seen, we will incorporate proposals that you have. It is one thing to make substantial proposals to improve the bill - indeed some have already been incorporated - and it is another to hide behind pretext proposals to find an excuse not to vote or to abstain or to do something different. Here, we'll all decide who we're joining eventually. And the issue - attention - is not about a large majority or a small minority, because in an organised democracy and the rights of minorities are completely regulated. We're not talking about that. We are talking about demarcation of a right, which, when not demarcated, becomes abusive. That is exactly what we are talking about. It is a deep, deep-seated democratic concept of how in a democracy we define the rights of different social groups involved. This exercise we're trying to solve and we're going to solve it. And can I tell you something? We don't find out about the powder. Greece must be the only country in Europe, which has no framework for organising the way demonstrations take place in the public space. And to say one more thing, in any case - and to close with it - to all of them - you do not belong to this category - who say: 'No, we do not discuss anything, we want 50 people to close the whole street and paralyse the centre at any time'. That is the reality we are experiencing today. We need to know why we're talking. We're not talking about the big protests. Already the bill stipulates clearly that demonstrations, such as the Mayoy, 17 November, do not fall within the scope of this legislative initiative. That's not what we're talking about. We know very well what we're talking about. If some have misunderstood, misinterpreted the right to public meeting and protest and turned it into a right of suffering for the rest of the citizens, they will find us against it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will be here next week, I repeat, creatively intent to incorporate initiatives, thoughts, but not to the extent that they are going to exacerbate the legislation and make it completely inappropriate. And because we are all finally judging not about our words, but about our attitude, I think it is an opportunity for you to walk on the road, which Mr Kamine boldly drew, your Member of the State, and finally do the right thing and support this initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u21	The conversation is over, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u22	Just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u23	Unfortunately, the debate is over. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate on the timely question to the Prime Minister, we will have a completely short break for the preparation of Ethiopia and will continue with the other timely questions. In particular, three to the Minister of Education and seven to the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before we move on to the debate on the remaining topical questions, let me first announce Monday's Question Time issue, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 856/26-6-2020 by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sunday Malama to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Basics and problems in the beginning of tourism in Halkidiki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 866/29-6-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Kommunist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No ninety workers of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital must be fired. 3. The 852/24-6-2020 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reduction of VAT below 10% in Nerokopi Drama, in the Municipality of Sintic and in corresponding attitudes, near Bulgaria - Skopje - Turkey". 4. The Question No 851/24-6-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Destructive prolongation of the suspension of the operation of Educational Harmonized Schools". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 859/26-6-2020 is a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Folios to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Abstract and scandalous entrustment to individuals, by way of derogation from the legislation in force, the creation and operation of municipal CIDs, by transferring profits from vouchers of the programme "The Harmonization of Professional with Family Life". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 861/28-6-2020, by Member of Parliament, Mr.Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakakadammas, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "A worrying increase in the number of missing children and adolescents". 3. The question raised by Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on the subject of the "Agricultural Doctor of the Diaponding Islands", by question No 878/29-6-2020. 4. The 862/28-6-2020 top question by Piraeus II Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadatimas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Reiterate a school of police officers at the Greek Police School". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 6005/286/27-4-2020 was asked and requested by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Haris Mamoulakis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Conventions for the development and concession of regional airports and resulting obligations under the present conditions of the Coronian epidemic". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 4991/17-2020 asked by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Health, entitled ‘Definition of Governor and Board of Directors at the General Hospital of Laconia’. So we continue with the third debate under the number 860/26-6-2020 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Removal of artistic courses from the secondary education curriculum'. There is a similar question from Mr Delis, but Mr Gregoriadis has been asked to discuss each other separately. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin by thanking the Minister, who, despite her workload due to the pan-Hellenic examinations, makes me the honour of being here. Thank you very much, Minister. As we all know, a few days ago your Ministry, through the publication of the school and high school schedule for the 2020-2021 school year, the following year, announced its intention to abolish all artistic courses in secondary education, especially in the ranks of high school with reasoning, as your Ministry said, mainly due to the small participation of students. I would remind you that, according to the timetable that was in place to date, Mr President, the students of high school were taught a Free Plan, a Linear Plan, an Architecture Plan, a History of Art, an Arts Education, Arts, Arts or Music or Information. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs recommends the abolition of the selection course of the First High School of Art Education, as well as the directional course of the Third High School of Free or Linear Design. Let's note here, Minister, that the courses of the Third High School are considered as special courses in the pan-Hellenic exams - you know that better than me - and they are necessary for the introduction of students to university schools, such as the School of Fine Arts, Architecture, Writing. I am going straight to questions, so that I do not eat you any more time, since I only say that, in our opinion, the exile of artistic courses from high schools and high schools creates the framework of a one-way educational system, Minister, which is clearly aimed at the labour market, the specialisation and staffing of large multinationals, which naturally belong, as we all know, to parasitic oligarchs. Our question, Minister, is: is there any care and provision of the Ministry for how pupils will be introduced into schools that have as a prerequisite for examination in specific courses, regardless of their economic and social backgrounds, in other words if they cannot go to schools? Do you commit as a government that you will not further promote a class education system and defend the right of all students to higher education? Secondly, will the teachers of these specialties keep their jobs or is the fear of availability hidden or even worse, as recent history taught us, when specialities in the PESA were abolished in 2013 and about two and a half thousand teachers were made available?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u26	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for your question and for the convenience of last Monday. I am pleased to have the opportunity to clarify a subject on which too many inaccurate elements have been heard. It has been heard that art is exalted by school, that musical and artistic at school will no longer be taught. Obviously all this is inaccurate and obviously we do not need, I think, here to develop the extremely important impact of arts on human culture, human development, the need for culture and music and artistic knowledge on children. I therefore consider this to be a given, and we have to take it as a fundamental assumption for any further debate. But let us put the matter to its real dimension. We're firing out art from school? Obviously not. We're leaving our children out of artistic knowledge? Not at all. What exactly is going on with Artistics? In primary school, nothing has changed, music continues, artistics, Theatrical Education normally without any change in the timeline. High school also happens. And I say it, why did you refer to your question of all the secondary education courses? It's not accurate. In high school there has been absolutely no change in both music and artistic courses. So what are we talking about delimiting the matter? We are talking about a selection lesson, a selection lesson that, to be honest, does not apply as it should be in the Greek public system. The way these courses are taught in high school does not, in my opinion, provide an honor precisely to the Arts, Music and Arts. For example, in the last three, four years the students who choose it in the first grade are only 2%. Sometimes there is no lesson being learned, sometimes lessons are not taught, it does not become an essential lesson. The experts themselves tell us that the choice lesson as it is does does not exactly find honor in this lesson. There have also been other changes in the timetable, of course, which have to do with international developments. Informatics has been strengthened, the need to strengthen further digital skills, the foreign languages have been strengthened, physical education has been strengthened. Why Physical Education? Unfortunately, our country is too high on the international ranking in relation to child obesity. And I'm telling you, with certainty, any change in the timeline is thanking some people, some people are displeased. There is no doubt that we would all like to have an inexhaustible timetable. Clearly, there is no doubt. But what is happening in Europe? Let us see what is happening in Europe too. Many European countries focus on Artistics in the smaller classes and the larger classes do not provide such education. Indicatively, according to the network "EURYDIC", after the eighth grade, i.e. about 2' high school, they are not taught artistically in Belgium, Austria, Serbia, Croatia. After the ninth grade, respectively about the third grade of high school, arts are not taught in Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Montenegro, etc. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I come to the issue of the third grade, which I consider to be of major importance. You want a topic concerning the teaching of all-Greek courses in question. I fully agree with you. Shouldn't we ask ourselves the same thing about all the special courses? Now children give musical performance and interpretation. Was that taught in school? No, it's the answer. They give harmony. She was taught at school? Oh, no. They're giving Spanish. She was taught at school? Oh, no. They're giving Italian. She was taught at school? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u28	Minister, with all due respect, because you will have your dentistry, please keep it for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u29	I'll be done. I am going to mention in detail what we intend to do, and for this major issue relating to High School III, which is what we really consider to be very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Let's all keep the time so we can get the process out. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u31	We're fighting it, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I have listened with a little surprise to you to answer, because it is unusual, in my opinion, when one exercises command and is Minister, to call for a problem which you did not create, but which you have not solved. What do I mean? First of all, in elementary school, which I have not mentioned at all in my question, these courses are still going on in high school. But the key point is high school. And let me say that the fact that students have low participation is due to nothing but the fact that, as you know better than me, after eleven consecutive years of memorandum there are no appropriate teachers to teach these lessons. They teach them, as you know very well, and I can read them in detail what their union says, engaging philosophers, who are the oldest. That's not too attractive for students. I read to you the announcement of the Quaestry of the Faculty of Philosophy of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. I was amazed, therefore, that the county of the University: "The new timetable of the general high school no longer provides a teaching time for the arts, as both the pre-selected course and the research hours of the 1st grade were abolished, during which the teachers of artistic skills developed a variety of thematic actions. Thus, it is no longer apparent that students and students of general high school will be given a certain educational opportunity in the field of arts, either directly through aesthetic education courses or indirectly from the relevant theoretical activities. There is no doubt that arts have a long tradition in our country. The need for artistic education of the courses has already been supported by a recommendation from the Greek state. Efforts have been made..." - not to say now - "...by Kounduras, Delmuzo, Gleno, Cryara. All these efforts..." - says the County of the Kapodistrian University - "... showed the common belief that the arts should have a special, prominent place in the program of Greek schools. Therefore, the proposed abolition in the last grade of our country's secondary education on the song, visual imprinting and theatrical expression neats and concerns us in particular." Now, as far as the second part of your answer is concerned, I tell you that the association of teachers in its communication says: "The low percentages shown by the Ministry are due to the administrative irregularities of the training staff against the will of the same students and their parents and to the timeless reluctance of the political leadership of the Ministry of Education to cover all the needs of secondary general education with the necessary teaching staff in IP08 Artistics, explaining how in order to transform the will of the students into an operational department there must be an instructor with available hours at school, which concerns our industry with few cases, since the Ministry has abolished organicity in the selection courses." I would remind you, Minister, before I close that the Constitution in Article 16 states in its first paragraph: "Art, science, research and teaching are free, and their promotion is an obligation of the state". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also remind you in the second paragraph of what our Constitution says: "Education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks." So your abolition is unconstitutional and that is very important. I'll close by doing a very little overtime, speaking to you personally, Minister. I know the range of your studies well. I know that you have had the fortune and the honour of graduating as the first - a very rare achievement - from Europe's best law university in France. In fact, your professor - think and answer me - who put you before you graduate, teach the first-years, dismantle and ever consent...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u33	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Your life won't be eaten for fifteen seconds! Would your teacher ever abolish artistic lessons when he trusted you, a young child, from the third world - I fear, then in his eyes - Greece? He wouldn't do it, and you know it! And the last thing I have to say to you is that on public TV, on a wonderful show last night called "good in the future", it's a documentary, the action of a group of people who teach children's bronze musical instruments is mentioned. Specifically, it's called "make some voice", make some noise, some noise. You really needed to see it, on public TV it was, to see...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u35	I'm done. It's called "Tomorrow the great" documentary. You should see it to see that you're blocking the great things that will come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, please be within the year. There are too many questions. You have another colleague who asks the same question. You'll have the time. Don't tell a colleague. Tell the next guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will ask you straight away. Do we just want to keep up with the pretexts in that country, say that we are doing artwork in the First High School, while most of the time we do or do we want to see the essence of the matter? What's the point? The point is, maybe it's late in high school. What's the point? Well, the fact is, the bases are coming in earlier. So do we want to make a national effort to see how we can overall strengthen the teaching of arts at school? We do. That is why we have set up an artistic committee, which is drawing up comprehensive proposals on how to substantially strengthen arts at school. Because, Mr. Gregoriadis, if only 2% of students choose music in the first grade, that's what needs to be considered. Why are we at 2%?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u38	I told you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u39	So is that what we need to deal with? Do we have to see exactly how we owe as a state to inject arts more into younger ages, where the children are more flexible, where they form their personality, where they accept all these knowledge and skills? So what do we propose? We have appointed an artistic committee, with which we have met recently, which is preparing a detailed proposal for the substantial deepening of the arts at school and is essential. Not just to say that we have a lesson in choice to say that we have a choice, and in essence there is no real lesson, as it should be, as it would have been, to expect an honor to be made in arts. That's the first. Secondly, we are discussing with the Institute for Educational Policy and the Artistic Committee the creation of a cultural area in the municipality, with an interactive approach, music, artistics, theatre, in the wider direction that exists. That is why we have called for the views of the most specialised - first of all the Institute of Education Policy and the Arts Committee - on whether or not it would make sense to do so, so that we can also get a clear message of strengthening the arts at school. You said we were the memorial school. I don't agree. Skill workshops that were passed in the previous bill represent exactly the opposite, the turn to modern school, which focuses not only on knowledge transmission, focuses on developing skills, mild skills, life skills, technology skills. There, Mr Gregoriadis, it is noted that the specialties for both Visual and Musical, and for the Theatre are at first assignment, because we consider it to be a very suitable field for more critical ages to teach these new themes. And I come to the all-Greek courses in question. This is where I want to be clear. We are concerned with all the lessons, because there has been a lot of discussion now about the project, but no one has wondered about music, no one has wondered about harmony, no one has wondered about Spanish and Italian. All these courses are being examined at a pan-Hellenic level. We are therefore working on a detailed proposal, which will address the teaching of all these special courses for students who will give their exams, that is, 14.00 p.m. to 16.00 p.m. after the end of the timeline, so that the school can carry out its mission, which has not been done in the past, if I am not mistaken, the teaching of all the experts. Because there was a lot of talk about the project, and quite rightly and fertilely the dialogue, but I did not hear the same sensitivity for all the other specific courses, the Music, the Interpretation, the Harmony, the Languages. For all this, the state is responsible, and so we have collectively to see how we can ensure that these universally tested lessons are taught at school as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. On the basis of the document sent to us by the Secretariat-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, I would like to inform you that, after consultation, the first under number 857/26-6-2020 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'The opening of a new border crossing and customs post in Pella'. There is also no discussion, after consultation, the fourth question under number 849/22-6-2020, first-round question by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament, B3's Southern Athens Sector, Mer25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'A delay in the payment of one-off aid to the earthquakes of Zakynthos'. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of equipment and services’, to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Declaration of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the Member States of the one part and Central America’ and to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Repealing of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the other part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part.’ Also, the Ministers of Culture and Sport, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Civil Protection submitted a draft law on 2-7-2020: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to prevent theft, smuggling of excavations and illegal importation, export or transfer of ownership or ownership of cultural goods or cultural property and to promote their restoration’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue with the second with the number 865/29-6-2020 topical question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of artistic courses in high school". Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago, about two weeks ago, the Ministry of Education announced changes in the timetables of high school, with which, apart from most of the courses of social studies, we abolished this discussion to a large extent in the multi-brand plan a few days ago - and the selection courses of artistic education from the 1st High School, in particular, the Arts, Music and Theatreology, as well as the Free Plan and the Linear Plan, a selection lesson from the 3rd High School. The last two, the Free Plan and the Linear Plan, are courses that are considered in Greece in the pan-Hellenic exams for university schools. In this way, however, as can be easily perceived, any student or student chooses to go to Architecture or to one of the Polytechnic Schools, the High School of Fine Arts, the Decoration Schools, Writing Schools, etc., in all those related to artistic departments, has no other way to go except in the schools and private education, i.e. pay. This, of course, also applies to music, and you said it also applies to foreign languages. This does not mean, however, that this ugly thing that applies will also apply to further courses. In any case, all this policy seems to be a purely class policy. It increases the class barriers to education, namely poor children, children of popular families cannot meet the requirements of these examinations with these courses. In the meantime, there is, among other things, this side - and yet another proof of the shrinking of general education with the wider one, with the real meaning of the term 'education' from the contents of the school. We believe that throughout school age a person should shape his or her personality globally and of course make a great contribution to this, as well as to the teaching of art. What we ask you is very specific: What are you going to do to cover the school's organic posts with artistic teachers, the IP08? We invite you to revise this decision on artistic courses, covering in the timetable for all classes of high school the need to provide artistic education to students and especially to students who choose this orientation for their studies. And in any case, what are you going to do, take steps - we invite you to take measures - to characterise these lessons, the artistic lessons, as laboratory lessons? Because, as you recognized a little earlier, it's not enough to say that we're doing artistically, that we're doing visually, that we're painting. There should also be the corresponding infrastructure so that this course can function properly from kindergarten to high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u42	Madam Minister, you have the floor. I hope you don't need any more time. You've been through it many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. As I said before, there have been too many inaccurate evidence of artistic lessons in school. It's completely untrue that they were expelled by the schools. On the other hand, they are specifically provided for in primary and high school, where there is no change in the timetable. But, you know what we're talking about here today? We're talking about a selection lesson. And you know, Mr Delis, with all due respect, I think the debate would be more honest if we were to discuss, for example, whether the lesson should be made compulsory. Let me hear this conversation. But when we all know that this course is not part of it, it is not taught in most cases, it is not really taught, it is debated as a pretext. So to discuss how we can actually strengthen arts in schools. That is why I said earlier that this is why a special effort is being made to make this one of the younger ages. That is why I mentioned in particular the definition of the Artistic Committee, from which we are waiting for detailed proposals and have recently met. The fact that we are working on proposals together with the Institute for Educational Policy, which is responsible for the country's educational policy, regarding the strengthening of the arts in municipal, possibly through the creation of a cultural area. And of course, Mr Delis, as far as the third of high school is concerned, it is a major issue. That is why I told you that we are working on a solution. We have collaborated extensively with the Ministry's services and the EPA to see to what extent we can make a deep section. The deep incision will be if we manage to teach all these special lessons which are then examined in a pan-Hellenic manner. Children give us these days - these days they give musical execution, interpretation, Harmony, Spanish, Italian and Planning - these lessons. Let us see exactly what we can do for these children, which are being examined at a pan-Hellenic level. You said, Mr. Delis, first of all, to reduce general education. I'd say the opposite. For example, for this very reason the logic of the "contra" course was introduced in the third grade, i.e. children who follow a theoretical direction to attend compulsory and mathematically and children who follow a practical direction to attend compulsory and history. You said, Mr. Delis, that artistics should be placed in all classes of high school, for example, in the second grade, where there was nothing in artistics. I assure you, Mr Delis, that if we did this, you would come here yourself and ask a question about why we took away the hours of philosophers, because we took off mathematical hours, because we took away the hours of those who do History or Physics or Chemistry. The timeline is specific and clearly given general directions in relation to the developments of the times. And that's why I talked about a modern school, in which, beyond the arts, we want to strengthen and in the years when the bases come, we want to strengthen other areas, such as Informatics, such as digital skills, such as foreign languages, such as Physical Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u44	Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor. I hope you do not need much time, because a lot of time has been discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u45	First of all, I would like to respond to the pretext of the debate to which the Minister referred. I think our party in particular has asked too many questions to all governments about all the universally tested courses that are not taught. And we say, as we have said a moment ago, that care must be taken to ensure that children and their families are not paid for in the schools and private schools. From there now on, in relation to discussing whether or not these artistic lessons should be or should not be in school, you know that comes from what we want. And as far as we are concerned, the JRC has published its detailed proposal for the single 12-year-old school, where, of course, it has an alimony. - The Sensory Education also holds, of course, depending on age. In other words, we are not entering a debate on the shelves of the school and about the lessons, such as putting this on and taking the other one out. It's not a supermarket for educational products at school. Unfortunately, this is how all governments are dealing with it, and so is yours. We do not treat it like that, and in no case would we ask a question about what you said before, about artistic or philological lessons. Now, as far as the 'dollar' lesson is concerned, we do not think that it is a 'dollar' lesson to be saved or to function the concept of general education. It is not enough for a "dollar" course, let that even the concept of "dollar" course is a concept, in my view, anti-educational. What do you mean, "dollar" lesson? Courses aren't against each other, they're not against each other. Knowledge is global and uniform and each lesson serves this knowledge from a different perspective. I now come to what you have responded to about the small participation of children, high school students, in artistic courses. Many times, however, you know that this small participation is forced because there are no teachers to teach these lessons and often children do not choose them. And of course there are no teachers, because the Ministry's budgets are never enough to meet these needs. And when there are some kids, anyway, the Ministry comes back there and the addresses say, "What can we do, boys? You are a few of the ones who state it, cannot form part.’ And like that, they are'suppressed' - within many introductorys - and any artistic wishes of these children in relation to these lessons. As far as artistic lessons are concerned, like those in social studies, we would like you to give us an answer: do you consider them secondary courses, and that is why you are taking them away? And in any case, how can the Ministry itself put issues in the pan-Hellenic exams, such as 'what's the role of poetry in your life' - because that was the subject - and at the same time, even from the choice courses, of artistic lessons? I think poetry and art serve the same object. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At some point, therefore, you will have to respond to all of this, because we, Minister, along with knowledge, real knowledge, do not question skills. But let us not have this debate again. Scientific knowledge is necessary. Along with knowledge, therefore, it should be cultivated to students and emotions. And right here comes art to serve that need. For we consider that a man, regardless of his or her life-profession, should be an integrated person, an integrated person. Madam Minister, we would also expect to hear something about the questions that we have asked you about the teachers of these schools, because that dimension also exists. With the removal of these selection courses, there is, of course, a reduction in positions for teachers. Okay, we know you want to lighten the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President, like you, Mr President. With regard to the questions about educational staff, I would like to inform you that there is no change in educational staff. The opposite is true. As you know, our government has launched special education recruitment, which is done for the first time in the history of the country through ASP and recruitment and in general education. Very recently, we have also had the temporary lists to be posted, and the first in the case of general education. As you will have noticed, these recruitments also include the specific specialities we are talking about now, which we intend to do - apart from all the other projects that we have to strengthen the arts, which we will talk about in greater detail - to be first assigned to all skill workshops. I have not heard any comments about what is happening in other countries. Is it accidental that they also focus too much on younger years, do they focus too much on these fundamental years of primary and high school to some degree? Shouldn't we be discussing this today? So why does only 2% choose to do music in high school? Why? Do we care more about saying ‘a, do we have a choice lesson’ or do we care about the substance, such as whether this lesson is correct, whether it is done as it should be? We must as a state focus on how to improve the essence of the lesson. That's what we want to do, to improve the essence of the lesson from the first classes, from the earliest. However, as far as the universal education is concerned, I am very concerned about the fact that so many years in our country's history all special courses were not taught in school. For this very reason, I imagine, we'll find you a mercenaries in this great effort, so that all special courses can be taught in teams, if you like, students in schools. And I'm closing up with this. You said school wasn't a supermarket. So I would like to ask you this: You say about the introduction of the Artistics into the Second High School. Tell me, what are you suggesting? Expand working hours? Are you suggesting that other lessons be taken? How exactly do you propose to implement what you say? Because when we are dealing with the timeline, we must also be realistic. I invite you to speak with all the scientific bodies and see what demands they have. If one adds the hours of all the requests from scientific bodies, it comes out a timetable which is twice or three times what allows the actual timetable. In any case, Mr Delis, I want to assure you that we support arts in schools. We focus on the most critical years and we want to see the essential teaching of these courses, the essential teaching of our children from the first classes, so that we do not make a lesson of choice simply to say that we do it, but to see the essence as such of lesson and teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u48	We are now continuing with the third with number 3703/31-1-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Payment of due money to directors and deputy directors of second-time schools". Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u49	But continuing the previous debate, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u50	But we must not waste time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u51	We will not waste any time, Mr President. That is precisely why, Minister, we have proposed the designation of these courses as laboratory laboratories. For as far as we know, the infrastructure available to these schools is unacceptable or nonexistent. We're talking about music halls, we're talking about visual rooms, we're talking about design halls. That is why we propose that these courses be classified as laboratory courses, so that they also acquire the appointed teachers. Now you're telling me you're going to do a strengthening teaching at the end of the hour. That's a mess, Minister. In any case, I now come to the question, which is another question for the directors and deputy directors of second-rate schools. We have asked a number of questions, Minister, and with the previous governments, which these schools have really had, as I tell you. So these poor directors and deputy directors were forced in the summer of 2017 to work all July, along with the deputy then, because the few permanent ones that exist did not work, and they had to be regularly paid for overtime. They were busy. People did business, classes. Since then, then, three years have passed and these overtime work have not yet been given to them. That's why we ask this question. There's enough evidence of the question, as we put it. Even the Saturdays worked these schools. Teachers didn't even take their summer leave. What we have asked of the previous government, and we also ask the government of yours, the New Democracy, is to announce today - we hope that, and we seek - when these people will take this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. Second-time schools work, as you know, with posted primary and secondary education teachers, as well as with mature teachers. In the school year 2016-2017, I recall, in governance SYRIZA - the invitation to show an interest in selecting educational staff with a project rental contract was approved in February 2017, for that year. The final tables were adopted on 28 April. Hourly-time staff were placed in the ETUCs in May. The first placement took place on May 2nd. Until then, the courses were carried out only by the permanent seconded teachers, where all the cognitive objects were seconded, thus losing many teaching hours. Due to these delays and the visible risk of the year being lost, then the leadership decided to extend the school year until the end of July, to an increase in the daily teaching time and to the operation of some Sabbaths. However, during the friendly tactics, the SYRIZA government first promised and then looked for a way to implement its promises. I would remind you of something that was also the case with cleaning staff in the schools, where this staff had been assigned to heavy and unhealthy, but before taking care of the funds required, precisely in relation to this amendment, which was correct, but the funds had not been found. The New Democracy government found them. So, then, the government has taken these actions, such as the extension of the school year, the increase in working hours, etc., without having secured the basics. What do I mean? First of all, he forced them to work Saturdays and all July 2017, without having to pay them by law. This was only foreseen in August of the same year and the overtime work of PPP directors and Deputy Directors on Saturdays of the school year predicted to be approved by the Finance and Education Ministers. This CIA was never issued. Why wasn't it ever published? Because there were two conditions for the adoption of the Staff Regulations: on the one hand, a ministerial decision on the overtime of directors and assistant directors has been adopted, as foreseen by the Law, on the other hand, the necessary appropriations from the Ministry of Education's budget. Mr. Colleague, SYRIZA did nothing about either. So the problem you are bringing to the House today was first created by the fact that SYRIZA started this process in February of this year. Secondly, she extended the school year until the end of July and Saturdays, without having taken care of the needs she created. Thirdly, it created a legislative provision with retroactive effect, for which it was required to adopt a CSR that was never adopted. Fourthly, a ministerial decision was required for the adoption of the Staff Regulations, which was also not adopted. In short, he had done all he could to keep these people from being paid. I must tell you that I have also asked the services in particular, which have transferred to me that the political leadership at the time has informed them that the issue of overtime cannot go any further, because the process would be incomplete. I will return to my denture of how our own government responded to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u55	We were worried about your answer. We hope that in the seconds you will say something different, because there is a chance that the workers will not get that money. Right now, Minister, it's you, Minister. We have asked too many questions to the SYRIZA Ministers, especially for the second-rate schools and the way they were dealing with them. You are right about what you said about ministerial decisions, about the CIA, about everything and about the fact that teachers were appointed in May, when the school year ended! The point is, who's paying for all this? They are paid by workers, by these people who worked on Saturdays all July, without even taking the leave allowance, as all workers deserve. That's why we brought this question. From there on, second-rate schools are schools aimed at adults, mainly those who, for some reasons, were unable to complete their apprenticeship path. Most of them - not to say everyone - go with a great deal of appetite to learn and complete everything they should know. In these schools, however, which are very important, the pouches are numerous compared with the rest. They're permanently subordinated. It's mostly with day-to-day people, with volunteers. You know, there's this fruit of volunteer teachers. And this volunteering is taken into account as a quality. Then they also get a certificate of voluntary work. We're talking about thousands of lost hours. We are also following the debate on the nature of these schools. I think there is a discussion in progress on the nature of the second chance schools. We're watching her. We are following the objections of the teachers themselves and their club, the PASDE. But here, this is a very specific issue: what are you going to do - and we hope you will say it now - to get this money from the people who worked on it? And we're not talking about crazy money. We're talking about business. And it is important to do this quickly, because according to the laws that are at risk of limitation. If it's been three years, then they're not gonna get it. That's what we're asking. Make the ministerial decision or the KYA, anyway, do what you need to do, so that the managers and assistants of the second chance schools can be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u56	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will agree with you, Mr Colleague, on the very important educational and social role of the second chance schools. They are, in fact, public schools in which citizens who have not completed compulsory education and through this institution, are given an important opportunity to acquire a title equal to the dismissal, focusing on the acquisition of basic qualifications and the development of personal skills. I stress this because these schools are the ones chosen by the previous government to leave without teachers until May. These adult students and workers brought Saturdays and all July 2017 to make up for the lost valuable teaching time, lost because of the then government indifference. But you're asking me, Mr. Delis, about something that happened in 2017. The limitation is two years, based on the law. So this request has been waived by law. Nevertheless, and because this is a major issue, we have asked the Ministry's services to consider a way to find a solution. Because these people have actually worked and a way must be found to compensate for their work. But let us be clear. We are talking about a problem of the year 2016-2017, for which the previous government did everything it could to prevent these people from being paid. In other words, the same laws that she adopted, the same conditions as she itself adopted, did not comply with them to the minimum, resulting in that year in the summer of 2017, these people remain unpaid. We, Mr Delis, will do what goes through our hand, despite the fact that we are talking about a requirement that has been omitted in accordance with the service instructions, to try and find a solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fifth under No. 868/29-6-2020 the second time question from MP I of the Greek Communist Party Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Additional difficulties for workers in middle-education schools and foreign languages for receiving unemployment benefit". Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u59	I think I'm consistent in times as long as I can. So continuing, it is a subject of education again. It concerns those teachers, workers who work in schools, who sign contracts in foreign language schools or in middle-education schools. They every year, in the summer, when their contract ends and are made redundant, anyway, they are establishing, on the basis of the laws and regulations in force, the right to receive unemployment benefit. This was until last year, because this year, as was interrupted, in mid-March, you understand, Minister, that these teachers can't complete these signals anymore, in the last two years, at least eighty or twenty-five, if they are for the third year. So there's a problem with these people. They are young people who start their lives, are young familymen, who work and do not have income. They were fired, they didn't work from there, they were suspended in contracts. In any case, this issue has arisen and the risk is visible for them to remain without income, without unemployment benefits. So we want to ask you directly what you are going to do. You know what our position is. Our position is that unemployment benefit should be granted without conditions and conditions, because these conditions and conditions, as they enter, usually exclude most people, much more this year with the precedent. I would also appeal to the Minister if he could respond at least at first and not leave it for his second-guess, so that we too can respond to our second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. You've got a second. Don't forget her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, therefore, will answer your last appeal directly with a title: 'There is no danger that this category of workers will remain without an unemployment benefit'. And I'm explaining. So I've answered you and I'll explain why, through the dialogue process. In the face of the unprecedented phenomenon of the coronary pandemic, the health crisis, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the government as a whole from the very beginning has moved with speed, design, sensitivity and responsibility. We have said that this difficult period and the situation will be addressed by all together, the state, businesses and workers. We have made rapid and urgent decisions. Within a suffocating timeframe, we have applied exceptional, temporary, but absolutely necessary measures to support workers and businesses. With seven legislative acts and dozens of ministerial decisions and circulars, we have created five packages for workers, businesses, freelance professionals, self-employed and unemployed. We appalled the requests of small and large professional groups and spread the protection net to the entire Greek society. At the heart of our actions, all our policies, he was and remains the worker. That is why a common denominator in all our legislative interventions was the so-called 'conservation of jobs' clause. We have been sick in order to protect all workers from the adverse effects of the pandemic. So what I find difficult to understand in your question is the point you are talking about abolishing the provision on the occasional employment of the unemployed, a provision which remains in force in Article 92 of Law 4461/2017. We supported businesses, schools and workers during the pandemic. In any case, I understand the difficulties faced by workers in schools, like many others. However, the same law applies to all workers. I'm going to come back more thoroughly in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u63	In reply the Minister said that these workers are not at risk. Of course, we did not understand and he did not tell us how exactly they are in danger and why they are not in danger, and if these people are finally going to get the unemployment benefit, because, as we said, with what has happened over the last few months with the pandemic, there is a problem with the completion of their posts. Others were fired. In any case, too much has been lost and cannot be supplemented with the changes in the conventions. There's a special charge, Minister. They are mainly the workers in foreign language schools, who supplemented these marks mainly in the second quarter, the four-month period, that is, which we had the known problem, because the new sections which were not made this year were created. It is particularly acute and that is why we are asking the question and that is why we have turned it into a timely one - it was tabled as a simple written question - because we are listening to the anxiety of these people for their income. In any case, you have referred to the Government's efforts, and so on, with the MAGPs. I think that, on the basis of what we have heard today by the Prime Minister, the newer announcements, the front of your efforts and your own government are business. Employees are in second shot. For businesses and large businesses, it is all this thick and billions of insurance contributions, up to incentives, up to all kinds of funding. Now, with regard to the occasional employment that was specifically applicable to teachers, I agree with you that it remains. However, our picture is that this had been abolished in previous years and created a serious problem for these teachers, who have made a small settlement there, in the sense that because of the status of their occasional employment they were being removed from the new convention, and so they could get unemployment benefit, even for a short time, and now there are little cases and there were little cases where they were losing it, even for a two-hour period that they could not work. In any case, we ask you to expressly tell us that these people, workers and teachers in schools will not lose the right to receive unemployment benefit. That is what I wanted to say, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u65	Mr Delis, according to the current legislative framework, workers in schools can apply for unemployment subsidy, like all other OAED members. With regard to the principle of the right to subsidisation for workers in nurseries, especially for this year with the measures taken by the Government, the suspension of contracts at the same time as payment of insurance contributions during the pandemic has contributed to the fulfilment of the conditions laid down. As far as the core of your question now is concerned, I can assure you that the legislative framework - I repeat, Article 92 of Law 4461/2017- on the occasional work of the registered unemployed fully ensures the continuation of unemployment subsidy after the completion of the occasional employment for as long as it is left to the end of the authorised period of unemployment. According to the OAED circular, in the case of the subsidised unemployed, who during their regular unemployment subsidy take several days of work at the start of their job, the suspension of their unemployment subsidy shall be automated and credited to the relevant person until the start of a job allowance on the recipient's behalf. Then, with the termination or termination of the contract, even in the case of one day's work, the balance of his allowance shall be re-evaluated at the request of the unemployed without compensation for his remuneration with the unemployment benefit, as has been the case so far. Consequently, the regularly subsidised unemployed now retain the right to receive all the days of their initial grant. In addition, if no more than seventy days per 12-month period are exceeded, the previous accumulated unemployment time collected up to the day of the commencement of their occasional work shall not be zero. As regards the unemployed, under the same provision of Article 92 of Law 4461/2017, they are allowed to maintain the previous cumulative unemployment time and thus the long-term unemployed, provided that they are employed on occasional work of up to seventy days per 12-month wage. Thus, no right to unemployment subsidy is lost for the occasional unemployed. The grant shall be suspended and the beneficiary's new application shall be restored upon completion of his occasional employment. Something similar was the case with the previous scheme, with the following substantial difference: The remuneration for days of work during the period of subsidized unemployment was offset by the allowance paid. The new scheme is clearly more favourable to the unemployed as the time of subsidised unemployment is extended for a period equivalent to occasional employment and the remuneration of his work is not offset by the amount of the subsidy. In addition, as far as the schools are concerned, they obviously closed down because of the pandemic with a state mandate, on our own mandate, on the order of the state. However, we have practically supported them, as well as the workers' teachers. The exceptional measures were known to include the special purpose compensation of EUR 800, as well as the full insurance cover of the suspended workers. This category of workers was therefore fully covered by the termination of their contracts. Thank you very much, Mr Delis, for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u66	We are now continuing with the third under No 853/24-6-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for workers in tourism - food and transport". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the question arises after the Prime Minister's announcement to the "Prime Minister's Time" and has been effectively answered by the Prime Minister. What does that mean? It means sympathy for workers and EUR 3.5 billion for entrepreneurs. That's what the Prime Minister said today. That is the answer that has been given, unfortunately for this question too. Because, therefore, tourism and transport workers are in a bad position, this question comes and we want you to specify it, if you can, further to what you have considered and have decided as government for those workers who have left behind the support. And there are thousands of these employees in tourism, such as fixed-term contracts and day-to-day contracts, hotels that stay outside or those contract workers who are in seasonal hotels. We remind you, Minister, that these are out of hand and that they are working relationships that you have legislated and today you do not recognize them. Today, workers are out of support. So we want you to tell us what you have decided on for these workers, who are too many. Questions are specific. Of course, we cannot expect an answer to the question of 'Strengthening the elastic forms of employment', because in your programme and in your policy it is their generalisation. That is why you are also doing the programme 'COMMUNICATION - WORK'. However, we say that these forms of work must be abolished. We also say that all workers, including those who have already said, should be supported. You guys have them out of them. They haven't even taken euros! Not even euros! They are the ones who do not have a cut, Minister, and they will take part in the next season in 2021, after April or May! Don't tell me these tourist workers will find a job now! Also, with regard to seasonal operations, there were many redundancies. And today it has been heard here that employers themselves are blackmailing workers to resign from the right to re-entry in 2021. With regard to rotating work, you say that it is not 50% reduction, but it is 18%, as the Prime Minister said today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u68	Colleague, the rest of you can tell in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's the question. But rotating work is rotating. It is at least 20% reduction and what remains is this rotating work that will be a permanent employment relationship in the future. Also, for seasonal workers, will the unemployment fund 2020-2021 ensure that? It is not guaranteed with what you have to date legislated. Of course, we are watching that here, apart from fainting, we have both a power cut and a water stop to workers who do not get a single euro. What do you have to say about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, your question was specific and it included only a few issues aimed at tourism. You are generally criticized and made most of the judgments. I accept it well. I would like to tell you, Mr Kattotis, that we all have the same sensitivity. We all have the same anxiety. And I'm talking to you in the capacity of the Minister of Labour, a man who is part of society. I live the trouble, too. I'm disgusting the problems. I come from a county, the Cyclades Prefecture, which is primarily a county based on tourism. I see them and I live them. I'm talking to society. Unfortunately, Mr Katsotis, what hit our country was not the result of an economic policy which has had an impact on the country's GDP and on the body of society and the economy. It was a global pandemic. And the question raised on this is what the government has done. You know very well - and this is also apparent in the list of social trends and views - that the government has reacted, first with the Prime Minister who gave the main direction. We have set human life as a top priority. And that's what we did. From there on, at the same time priority was the maintenance of jobs, as we put the workers at the core. Are there any gaps? Of course there are. Could it be much better? Of course! Who disputes that an enemy of good is the best? With the tools, however, which were not there at that time, we decided on a zero basis. We made decisions within a few seconds with legislative acts. We've made laws since zero. There was no precedent for someone to follow. However, I can say that on this issue, especially with tourism, Mr Katsotis, there may be issues that I do admit, but the effort we have made was unique. You are accused of the "Association - WORK" which at the end gives the worker a rate of pay of 83.5% to 100%, with taxes and contributions, with half a year. Can anyone question that? Why did we do that? Did we do this from a bias against the workers or in favour of the businesses? Oh, no! We had to maintain the company at the same time, because without the company there are no workers. By the time they were ready to enter the business, we took the hand of the businessman and told him: "Come here. We give you tools, such as the repayable advance or the advance reduction announced today by the Prime Minister. We recognize the problems of the economy. Not all companies in our country are big capital and large businesses, multinationals, as you say. Minimal percentage. The vast majority of businesses, Mr Katsotis - and you know that - are small and medium-sized enterprises of ten, fifteen, 20 workers, fifty workers and we have to keep them alive. Believe me, this is a national effort and I will explain in my denology measures announced by the Prime Minister today and I will specify them more on the issue of supporting the world of tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u72	Minister, thank you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u73	The pandemic is something unavoidable and global. But its management is classic here and with all the civil governments around the world. It's against the workers and the big capital. We are talking about EUR 24 billion for the relaunching of the economy and EUR 32 billion for the European Union's Recovery Fund. All this has the big capital as its recipients. For workers, you also give EUR 500 for large businesses up to EUR 500,000. That's a reality. That is the reality that exists today. You say you have sensualities. The demands made by workers show that they are not satisfied with the sensitivity you show and the support you are giving, as you say. The sympathy is the one you express. But sympathy cannot be filled with food for the worker, his family. From your sensitivity, of course, the business groups are fully satisfied, for which, as we have said, you find money. He's got a lot of leafy trees for them! But here you have not answered what you will do for these workers, the contractors. Is it your choice to employ contract workers and to be exempt from the obligation to comply with collective labour contracts within the workplace, yes or no? Is it your choice for food business to employ three-day workers? It is. Don't they stay unprotected? Do you know how many are unprotected in the field of foodism and hotels? We're talking about over 20% of the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have to answer us here. Of the four hundred thousand employees, how many have been joined to date? You're talking about seven hundred thousand workers. Let's say seven hundred of what you and the indirect ones say. How many of them have joined this support programme? The large majority is outside, and these are the forms that you have already recognised. Minister, not that you're not cutting the wages. Are employers' exemptions not reductions in the employee's wages? Is the reduction in employers' contributions not a reduction in workers' wages? All of this doesn't mean that the flow in the insurance system is going to be shorter and sooner and you're going to come down to say that it can't stand the system, so we're gonna have to reduce pensions and insurance benefits? Isn't that the policy you're following today? You leave workers unprotected, unfortunately, and here you give everything to the businesses, to the large business groups. They are particularly pleased that you have included the small ones in their tax-free allowances at EUR 12 000, nor have they received the support, nor the unemployment fund, and we have made an amendment - a question for them. You have not answered or replied to us in general for the self-employed in tourist enterprises, who too remain outside of support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u75	On this, unfortunately, you have not responded to your prototype, as you usually do. Here, Minister, you must say what you are going to do with contractors, with one day's contracts, with a few days' contracts at hotels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to clarify something to Mr Katsotis, with respect and sympathy to his face. Mr. Catatotis, you're zeroing everything. You know it's not like that. You are making the political criticism from your point of view. Respectful, but you're out of reality. How do we do it, Mr. Katatotis? Your ideological account means privatising everything and I have said many times and have asked you to tell me a country in the world where it is implemented. Not applicable anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u78	Let's have a conversation about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u79	But I shall now go to the point because you say that I do not answer and say to you directly, Mr Katsotis - why you leave questions and raise concerns and uncertainties - that pensions are absolutely guaranteed. You remember very well, beyond your doubts and criticisms, when I brought the last insurance reform, No.4670/2020. It is a law that has come to stay, because it has closed with the past open issues, it has ensured the returnability of the system, we are closing unconstitutionalities with regard to the issues of the previous Katorugalo - SYRIZA law, we are now awarding the retrospectives. We are waiting for the new decision of the Council of State, which we will also respect. I would therefore like to tell you that this insurance reform has been accompanied - and you know that very well, because you are an experienced parliamentarian - for the first time historically, which has not been done in the past, with a full analogue national study, which shows that the system shows sustainability by 2070. I should like to say to you that, although gaps are being created today, as we call them deficits, in the insurance system because of the pandemic, which I have acknowledged, have been reduced because jobs have been cut in this period and through the suspension of contracts of employment - those EUR 534 we are giving or the 700 with the insurance contributions - the difference will be covered by the state budget. So pensions are absolutely guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u80	And the workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u81	Secondly, you say that wages are falling through the reduction of employers' contributions. That's a mistake, Mr. Katatotis. The wages are not reduced when the state comes to cover the employers' contributions. Employers' contributions are the same, we give them as an incentive to an enterprise to hire or maintain jobs. No pay cuts. On this, then, I would like to tell you about the world of tourism that we have seen the issues that open up from the very first moment. You saw that we suspended all the hotel businesses in June in June and took off the form that will be submitted on 7 July by the workers. If a hotel owner decides not to open, he will complete the form to get the 534 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u82	In August he'll get these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u83	In July, the money will be taken, Mr Katsotis, in two or three instalments - we will see - by waves will be paid. And full insurance contributions, covering the worker. If the hotel opens, we also oblige the businessman to submit to form E3 or E4 his employees, to suspend those he wants, and we put the employee back on cover for those he wants to hire. You saw in the law we passed that, depending on the hotel's completeness, he's obliged to hire. Two measures were taken very importantly, apart from what I described, in addition. The first was to cover employers' insurance contributions for June, July, August and September for all workers recruited or recruited until 30-9-2020 with part-time employment in these seasonal enterprises. The second is what I described before, the 'Cooperation - WORK', for 'Cooperation'. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to tell you that today the Prime Minister has announced additional measures that support the efforts currently being made by the state to businesses to open their doors to recruit workers. The first was that we are extending the provision of 60% of employers' insurance contributions to the 'Cooperatives' programme and for the months of August, September and October. The programme is therefore being extended, which means that it gives a certainty to the businessman to know that by 15 October the programme will be followed and, secondly, that companies with the highest percentage of their turnover in the third quarter of the year will not pay employers' insurance contributions for the months July, August and September 2000.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u84	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u85	The same applies to undertakings active in the air and sea transport sectors, to employees of all the above companies, which are part of the ‘COMPANY — WORK’ programme, and which will now cover all employers' insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u86	We continue with the second debate under No 869/22-6-2020 on the first question by the Member of Parliament of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Definition of minimum income and Social Solidarity for Retired Persons'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that the PASOK had established in 1996 the PASS and, together with the pension thresholds, both constituted a serious social protection net and guaranteed a decent standard of living for the low pensioners, which, of course, was abolished by SYRIZA with his own policy. Then we were talking about the beneficiaries of four hundred to five hundred thousand micro-retired people, strict income criteria were envisaged, and did this CSCE concern whom? The micro-retireds. The Change Movement, in the context of a discussion of the draft law on insurance reform, which we called "substantially insurance reform", because you continue with the logic of "the insurance Katrugalos", tabled an integrated proposal for legislation to establish the minimum guaranteed income for all pensioners through the introduction of a new ECHR. In particular, the provision of the Change Movement provides that if the pension or the sum of the monthly pensions is less than this amount, which will determine as guaranteed pensioner income, the new CSR will be activated in order to reach the minimum guaranteed pensionable income for pensioners for the monthly amount. It also provides for the income and assets criteria required for the award of the new CSR, as well as any other necessary issue that the Ministries, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance determine by common ministerial decision. Minister, because ensuring a decent standard of living for all the citizens of the country is an obligation of the state and because the government has not placed itself in this proposal made by the Change Movement - I repeat, it did so when the insurance was discussed - you are asking: Do you intend to adopt the proposal of the Change Movement? You have accepted here in the House many suggestions of the Change Movement. You have accepted them and implemented them. That is a pleasant thing, because it is progressing all for the citizens. Do you intend, Minister, to adopt, by accepting the proposal of the Change Movement, the minimum guaranteed income for e-ECA pensioners and the activation of this new CSR, so that the monthly pension amount is not lower than that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, Mr Mulkiotis' question will not be discussed with Mr Kegeroglou's question on this subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u90	Yeah. Therefore, it will be discussed jointly with the fourth under number 872/29-6-2020, a topical question by the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Exercise of the injustices for small-scale pensioners and pensioners of invalidity and widowhood" and the Minister will respond as a whole. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u91	They are two additional questions in the same spirit. The Minister's wish to discuss them together is accepted. Answers to have! Now, if we take them separately or in total, there's no objection. In my question, Mr President, I shall refer to an issue that is now unfolding in Heraklion. There are incidents at Heraklion Airport with the workers on tourist buses, drivers, and it is about the collective labour contract. But I shall refer to my next question, because there is a need for an immediate intervention by the Minister on this matter. So we are talking today about micro-retired people. Mr SYRIZA also mentioned two things: first of all, the strengthening of the system to those who had no income but a small pension. And, secondly, it abolished the minimum pension amount at EUR 486. The result is to make micro-retired people poorer because of these decisions. At the same time, however, we have two serious problems with regard to disability pensions and widow's pensions. For disability pensions, I will say that, unfortunately, by the SYRIZA Katrugalos Act, the disabled will not receive the entire national pension, i.e. EUR 345 to EUR 384, but will receive a percentage from this national pension depending on his disability. If it has 50% disability, which at the time will then be entitled to a disability pension, it will receive EUR 172.5 and that amount will be supplemented any proportion. The result of this arrangement is now having a disability pension of EUR 170, EUR 200, EUR 250. This is the one serious issue that has arisen from the Katorugalou law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The other thing is that while the question of the employment of children who were retired because of their parental death was settled - the employment issue was settled and we had no problem, since it was until the twenty-fourth year of their age - this provision does not have retroactive effect and for all those who received a pension before 2016 the restrictions for the eighteenth and twenty-fourth years of age apply. That means we have an unequal treatment for the same people. This is where the question of the unification of benefits and the conditions for retirement comes in. And because it is about disabled and widower's pensions, I think that the Ministry should immediately move on to the integration of these benefits. We are, however, calling for the Minister's position on all matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You have your dentistry, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I will speak from Stepma because I will have more time to answer both questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u94	Okay. You have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u95	I come to reply from the Step, ladies and gentlemen, because you have put the whole insurance business back on the basis of your questions. I am returning, therefore, and my position will respond to your questions, in particular, in general terms. With the provisions of Law No4670/2020, our recent legislative intervention - reform that we have introduced, we have redesigned the country's insurance system by making use of the positive elements that have so far been adopted. With the reforms introduced, a new digital and effective insurance system is being built. It provides the prospect that modern Greek society requires in the digital age. It is in line with constitutional principles. It restores justice. It strengthens the rewardive nature of the system and cancels the disproportionate financial burden imposed on an important productive and creative part of the Greek economy. It is the country's financial perspective that defines the framework for future decisions and interventions decided on in the system. You need to hear that because it was important what I told you just before. In this context, care to maintain the viability of the pension system and while respecting a balance between reciprocity and adequacy is the issues that have been taken into account in the reform of the system. Today we can talk about a new era of our country's insurance system. With the creation of e-ECA, the National Social Security Agency, with the integration of the sectors of assistance and one-off benefits, we unify the database of all insurance data and ensure more efficient and faster services to citizens. The integration of the Insurance Database allows for digitisation of all social security functions and thus easy management of it. The digital version “ATLAS” is now a reality, the pilot phase of which is completed in the next few days, in July. In this way we will face the strong confidence deficit that we have been facing over the past few years on the part of those who have been subject to constant concern about the process of awarding pensions. Modernises, rationalises and improves the process from the application stage to the pension decision-making stage. All benefits are paid directly and at the same time: main pension, supplementary pension and one-off. And for the first time in the history of our country's insurance system, the digital pension, which is intended to be a flagrant reform in the direction of the upgrading of the operation of the e-ECA and of the minimum time needed to complete the administrative procedures required for the award of the pension. The digital transformation of the system will be the antidote to the bureaucratic structure of social security. At the level of contributions we have introduced an innovative and reward system of free and flexible choice for freelance professionals, facilitating their business planning in the short and medium term, encouraging the development of their economic activities and initiatives. At the same time, we are implementing the gradual reduction in insurance contributions to up to five percentage points starting in June 2020. This reduction applies only in cases of fulltime employment, with the aim of stimulating the share of full-time contracts to reduced part-time contracts. The aim of this reduction in non-wage labour costs is to encourage new recruitment, to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises, productivity and overall employment, and to increase the income available to stimulate consumption and product production. At the same time, the launching of a modern system of rewarding contributors by providing the state of insurance tax and other incentives, such as reduced insurance contributions, partial exemption from targeted on-the-spot checks, the promotion of enterprises under corporate social responsibility, will further enhance healthy entrepreneurship. As far as pensioners are concerned, we are strengthening the level of remuneration of the system by adjusting the rates of replacement of the main pensions, while abolishing the reductions in supplementary pensions to the amount established, in accordance with the applicable provisions on 31-12-2014. All the above interventions took place within the framework of the country's budgetary possibilities, taking care to maintain a balance, between remuneration for benefits and contributions and the degree of redistribution of income. In particular, the system established and the recent interventions of Law 4670/2020 takes into account the redistribution within the system, i.e. among pensioners. This redistribution is ensured by harmonising the rules for new pensioners and by maintaining personal differences in the pensions of old pensioners. The amount of the benefit, retrievable benefit depends on the level of contributions paid by the insured person and his years of insurance and is calculated by the same rules for employed and selfemployed persons. In order to strengthen the system’s return, we have anticipated increased rates of over thirty years of insurance. Incentives to remain at work and comply with the obligations to pay contributions are therefore created. In this context, all the rules of the system - i.e. the rules for calculating pension earnings, the rates of replacement, the level of national pension, the institutionalised age limits for retirement, and the purely pro-active elements existing within the system, such as the pensioning of uninsured overages - are balanced at a level that ensures the long-term sustainability of the system. What has been shaken for a long time - many years ago and now we have solved it. This is confirmed by the long-term projections of the respective national proportionality authority. In addition to the redistribution within the system, account shall be taken of the redistribution between pensioners and workers and other taxpayers. According to this parameter in our social security distribution system, the amount of pensions should always be considered in relation to the average wages paid by the economy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Also an important parameter in the relationship between pensioners and workers is the level of funding of the system not only within the framework of the tripartite financing of the system but also state funding and coverage of deficits from the state budget. In short, on the basis of the results of the first study carried out on the adequacy of pensions, January 2020 by the University of Athens, which I submitted together with the insurance reform, it is noted - and I have not been able to say this in my speech to the insurance - that the average standard of living of pensioners and members of their households is slightly higher than the national average, while the percentages of pensioners and members of their households who are below the limit of sufficient standard of living are well below the national average.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have a second. I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u97	Compared to most other members of the European Union, the relative position of Greek pensioners compared to the national average seems to be more favourable. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, because you have made a reference and you will certainly tell me that I have not answered, there are general answers to what I have said about the insurance system, about the financial balance of the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u98	Minister, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u99	In my dentistry, I'm going to specialize, believe me, more. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we expect further clarification in your dentistry, because you did not really touch the CSCE. You know that it is an aid which, as I said, in 1996 the PASOK adopted and adopted. Along with the pension thresholds, they constituted a serious social protection net and a decent standard of living. After all, you yourself, Mr Minister, have confirmed this at times and you have accepted it. Financial derailment and the crisis have led to unpleasant decisions and developments, difficult decisions that have affected the whole spectrum of society. It is known that pensioners as a whole have suffered large reductions during the crisis and in the effort to address existing deficits. Of course, the first two programmes, the first two Memorandums, were of great importance in preserving the incomes of the weakest pensioners, the low pensioners. So there was no change in supporting these people through the ESS, which was maintained, as I said, both in the first and second programmes. The same applies to the lower threshold, which was set and was EUR 486 for all the IKA pensions. Then, the SYRIZA government, with the signature of the third memorandum, abolished the CSCE and, of course, abolished the lower ceiling on pensions with the famous signature of Mr Haikalis at that time. SYRIZA, of course, pre-election last year established the third pension referred to as the tenth, but you have also abolished. I repeat, Minister, that the Change Movement in the Legislation on Insurance Reform has tabled its final proposal - a proposal for regulation and the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income for all pensioners - through the introduction of a new CSR. This proposal stipulates that if the pension or the sum of monthly pensions is less than the amount to be paid as a guaranteed pensioner's income, then the new CSR will be activated in order to reach the upper limit of the minimum guaranteed pensionable income for pensioners. It also provides for the incomes and assets required for the award of the new CSR and any other necessary issue that will also be determined by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Today, however, the low-pensioners remain the most unjust. No one can deny it and question it. They are the most unfair because of the difficult situation that exists in general for survival, with a life cost that requires specific incomes, while many households in Greece are now at risk of major poverty, since deprivation of basic goods is not about 17.9% of the country's total population in 2019, according to official data from the National Statistical Office. At the same time, despite the establishment of care programmes for the elderly from the age of Simitis, Greece remains among the countries of the European Union, as regards care and housing benefits for the elderly, namely this most vulnerable group. Greece, however, is spending less than 0.1% of GDP on such services, while the Greek population is rapidly ageing. One thing is clear, then, Minister: given the unequally woven protection net, which is also a threat to the possibility of decent living, we believe that the reintroduction of the CSCE is perhaps more necessary than ever. It's a one-way road, Minister. Is our question clear and I want you to answer and take a position - not implicitly, but explicitly - whether the Government intends to adopt the proposal of the Change Movement for the introduction of the minimum guaranteed monthly income for IKA pensioners and for the activation of the new CSR, so that the monthly pension amount is not lower than that? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor within three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have once again analysed the insurance reform that you have carried out at the beginning of the year. Only you have presented it so great that, in fact, your argument is inconsistent with reality. I will submit in the minutes the document of the Court of Auditors, which specifically refers to your draft law "The rules of Law No.4387/2016 are adopted in a general context,..." of the Katrugalo Law, "and substantial changes are made to specific provisions which have been found to be unconstitutional...", states them, "... while organisational integration of the NCAs is being carried out". Therefore, we are not talking about a great reform. In any case, we have not asked today about insurance as a whole. We specifically asked. Together, we voted against the prehistory now because it was not the ESS because it is another issue, another debate - the abolition of the ESS, which SYRIZA brought to a bill and directly hit the small-timers. Together we voted against the abolition of the minimum pension ceiling. Do you today continue SYRIZA's policy in relation to the ESS? The ESS must come back. It has nothing to do with the viability of the insurance company, to be made clear. The amount relating to EAFRD is from the State budget allocated under income criteria. I've never said anything to the FBI budget before. The second point I asked in my question relates to disability and widowhood pensions, namely, in relation to invalidity pensions, this other device of the Katrugalu and SYRIZA which now gives pensions to the disabled, depending on the disability rate and on the basic pension. The basic national pension, says the law at first, is the same for all Greeks, for all the insured, for all pensioners and ends up saying "except for the disabled". Which SYRIZA analgesia! And he goes on to say that if he's 50% disabled, he'll get 50% of the national pension. Why is that? So answer the question: will you reinstate a full national pension for the disabled, and will the analogy be added there? The second part of the question relates to the disharmony between pensioners, children, invalidity, death pensions and the years in which adulthood is taken into account so that pensions are cut or continued. These are specific things that we ask you and not generally and vaguely about the insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u104	Thank you for the time, Mr Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, I want to speak to you through my heart. As a Member of Parliament and Minister, who has honoured me by the people of the Cyclades for many years to represent him and Antonis Samaras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the helm of the most difficult in the Ministry's portfolio, I would like to say that I have been struggling for all these years to try to move in the line of being useful for the country and the Greeks and not pleasant. What we experienced together, Mr Kegeroglou, you were a State Secretary, within the period of the memoranda that we saw cut off pensions unjustly, violently, unnecessarily due precisely to the country's financial derailment, I hope it never happens again. And I guarantee you today that, with this last insurance and the financial proportionate study that is there, this will not happen again, provided that the rules of budgetary equilibrium that I have analysed just now are complied with. If anyone who comes and the Minister of Labour comes to make the pleasant and not the useful one, then I assure you that the national proportional study will have no value and very soon we will see pension cuts again. Today is not going to happen. Pensions are guaranteed. And I want to come to your question more specifically now. I would like to remind you that the introduction of the national pension had a different name, a basic pension, it was made by three laws, with Mr.3863/10, the PASOK law at the time, with Mr.4387/16, the Katrugalos SYRIZA Act and Mr.4670/20, the Brutsis Act. We kept that. It was a new introduction to a new environment of an insurance policy that brought a new reality. And to say that this national pension, ladies and gentlemen, is a non-contributory benefit, financed exclusively by the State budget and not by the payment of insurance contributions. And we know very well in this Chamber that most of the insurance costs are state budgets, not contributions. So we must be very careful to keep this balance. With the adoption of the law - here I fully confirm -4387/16, the Katorugalos Act, and in particular Article 92, the gradual reduction in the amount of CSR has been predicted up to its final abolition at 31/12/2019. It's a reality. The full amount of the national pension is now financed by the State budget that I have told you and amounts to EUR 384 for twenty-year insurance years or more and is reduced by 2% for each year of insurance, which is less than EUR twenty-years, with a minimum of 15 years of insurance, i.e. EUR 345.60. All the proportionate study has been based on these assumptions and on the state budget and the macroeconomic models of the country and debt by 2070. With regard to invalidity pensions, the provisions on proportional reduction of the national pension under Law No.4387/16, which were in fact maintained under Law No.4670/2020, shall repeat the provisions already laid down for the basic pension of Law No.3863/10. These provisions aim to strengthen, by means of uniform rules, pension provision irrespective of the wages paid during the insurance lives of workers and the contributions paid, but also to prevent it from operating as an incentive for early retirement, on the other hand, the protection of public funds, because the basic pension is purely financed by the State budget and is not linked to the contributions paid. Thus, the provisions of Law 3863/10 provided for a reduction in the basic pension for pensioners who receive a reduced disability pension. Similar provisions have also been laid down in subsequent laws. So it's nothing new, Mr. Kegeroglu, you're talking about. Invalidity pensioners with less than 80% of the amount of the national pension is divided into 75% of the amount of the national pension if they have a disability rate of 67% to 79.99%, and 50% of the full amount in the case of a disability rate of 50% to 66.99%. No reduction shall be made in the amount of the pension. This method of calculating pensions specifically for invalidity pensioners is more favourable than the previous one, as the reduction due to an invalidity rate applies only to the amount of the national pension instead of the total amount of the pension applicable. This is because national pensions, I shall repeat, are financed exclusively from the State budget and the remuneration of the contribution system is not affected. For deaths after 13-5-2016, the provisions of Article 12 of Law No.4387/2016, as amended by Article 19(2) of Law No.4611/2019, shall apply according to which legal children, recognised, adopted and treated as such, are entitled to receive the pension due to death up to the twenty-fourth year of their age regardless of their age in a school, even if they undertake a job. For deaths occurring before 13-5-216, starting date of L.4387/2016, legal children, recognised children, adopted and treated as such, shall be entitled to the pension due to death if they are single and have not completed the eighteenth year of their age. This limit shall be extended until the twenty-fourth year, provided they are in higher or higher-recognised schools in the domestic, foreign or in IEK or in vocational training centres and schools or at the time of the death of the insured or pensioner to be single and incapable of any income-related work, provided that their incapacity occurred before the completion of the twenty-fourth year of their age. The pension shall be interrupted if they take up work. It should be noted that for the transfer of the pension due to the death of an insured or retired person, account is taken of the statutory scheme in force for the time of the event of the accident, i.e. death, and there is no possibility of extending any more favourable subsequent provisions in cases earlier than 13-5-2016. I believe that these basic principles are reflected in the legislative initiatives that we have taken, but also over time in our attitude to social security. Any intervention planned in the insurance system and any fruitful proposal from the counter-population should be part of the country's long-term economic environment and with a view to guaranteeing the viability of the system for future generations. And that is the most important thing, whatever proposal we should measure it in budgetary terms, because it is about the future of our country in the next generation. Modern Greek reality and the experience of the last decade should inspire us, promoting our rules of sustainability, justice and transgenic solidarity as our options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. We continue with the first under No 871/29-6-2020 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Beyond the law and to the detriment of part-time pensioners the instructions of the Ministry." Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you do not take into account the fact that the lower pension was the case by Law 3863. Without the lowest pension, curtailing basic or national is, as is called, complete analgesia. The future cannot be built on social debris and especially on the pain of the disabled. Because that's what this is about. The disabled got 486 euros in the worst case. Now it's taking 200 euros. You justify the Katorugalou law, you do not correct it, and you invoke me for an earlier period. Oh, no. 486 was the lowest. Here you are completely out of reality. I want to believe you're not aware. Because then we have to say other things. Look at it. The second element is that I have asked a question about an OAED student twenty years old who cut his pension and tell me that they're badly cutting it off. Today you told us that it should not be cut because it has not completed the twenty-fourth. And if we get what's true before 2016, he's in the OAED school. It's a public school. Unless it's not recognized. The question of pensioners and work, Art. 27 of the N. 4670 of your own law and, of course, Article 24 of Law No.4387 have exactly the same wording in relation to the reduction made in the pension in the case of employment. In particular: ‘The pension shall be paid reduced for as long as the pensioner is employed or maintained the status, activity, which is covered by the insurance of the ECA.’ In short, what does the law say? If you work for fifteen days, then the cut-60% before, 30% now, will be for the fifteen days. If it works five days, 60% will be cut before the Katorugalo or 30% with your own law for five days. Unfortunately, the circular that has come into effect later Law 4670 does not give this interpretation. It only says that for an hour to work and to be insured, you'll have a 30% reduction in pension total. That's the question. If you intend to correct this distorting "translation" of the law through the circular, which cuts pensions even for one hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u108	You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I will answer Mr Kegeroglu and the specific question he raises, which I can say is reasonable. But I want to put things in a time series that is worth freshening in our minds. I would like to remind the House and the honourable Members that the Katrugalou Law, n.4087/2016, has brought something incredible. With a reasonable punishment, he came to punish retired people who, for the sake of biopolitics, wanted to work after the pension. And the Katrugalu - SYRIZA law brought 60% cut in pension. It was a logic that I had described it as punishing. We were therefore committed to election, but we did so with our insurance reform, that this must end once and for all. We honor pensioners. It is a very useful and important social group that has experience and love in society and can offer many. So we had to give them the opportunity to work legally and to get back into the production process. That is why, in our last legislative intervention, in our insurance reform, we have done so. We had the incentive for the retired person to get 70% of his pension. In other words, we have changed this punishing concept of the previous Katrugalo Law. It cannot get 100% in the sense that it would create other influences and effects on the labour market. But he gets 70 percent. In particular, however, for one category which I would like to mention, for farmers, we have given very strong incentives to stay in their rural business. Farmers either work, if they decide to work, they get 100% of their pension. They don't get 30% cut. Even the heterogeneous, in order to get workers' hands in the fields up to 10,000, pay neither contributions nor cut pensions. In other words, we are giving very much support and we are showing great interest in the primary sector. Now, Mr Kegeroglu, with regard to the specific circular you are referring to - I have now given a first answer in general to what was in place, what changed and what was happening today, something that has embraced the whole world of pensioners in the country - I will respond more specifically to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, have you taken the floor four times and what did you tell us? You told us that you brought in an insurance reform that, over a year, made the insurance policy sustainable, but which cannot restore the injustice to be given to the small pensioners again. This has nothing to do with this, I told you again, because the ESS is given by the state budget and you know very well that the so-called "blooded surpluses" of SYRIZA was also due to the cut in the ESS. The second thing you said to us is that it was abolished at the minimum of EUR 486, but it is still the case and you think it is fair for a disabled 200 euro pension to be paid or even EUR 173 if it does not have a serious reward to be added to EUR 170. And come to the last. The total unacceptable 60%, as you rightly said SYRIZA did, you do 30%, but once he dares and works at least an hour, the 30% cut will take place throughout the month. I think this is a mistake. And I don't just mean the last one. That's wrong with your visa. You cannot change the decisions made by SYRIZA to view them as data and say that "After SYRIZA took them, I do not change them. SYRIZA got them." No, it's not like that. You were voted on because you would change policy. You were voted on because you would change the bad text. And unfortunately, you don't change them. Restoration of the ESS. You have to tell us. Resuspend the lower veil. The amount of invalidity pension cannot be in proportion to the national rate. It's the national as well as it is. Of course, it's all the other issues. Can you tell me that the distinction continues before 2016 and then I do not deal with it? If we say that we have to deal with bad texts. In practice, why can't that be done? Only keep keeping them. In this sense, I would like to call on you once again - good general declarations, good objectives, but if there is any misfortune with reality, then it can only be strongly criticised of what is happening - answer in particular the three, four, five questions that we have put to you today and concern specific things. No general references to sustainability, for which we are all saying that we have achieved it with Law 3863, we have saved the insurance policy, which at that time did not really exist for pensions. The insurance from Katrugalo was saved in 2016, you saved Flevaris. No more lifesavings. Let's see the world. There is no prospect and future for the country without young people, but also a decent life for the elderly, for the retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u112	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u113	It causes me, in the good sense of the term, to answer that, Mr Kegeroglu, you are not only looking at what you say. It's only for retired people you're not interested in. Because I'm just going to ask you a question. I have just made a full analysis of the budgetary balance that has to be in insurance, and I said that as Minister of State I was fighting in 2012-2014 and now and while I am the Rota I have carved, I am useful for the country and the Greeks, for the next generations, for the workers and not pleasant. And I'll introduce you this. Look, it's sensitive to nobody here. There's no one with reduced sensitivity, we're all as sensitive. But put the term of responsibility. Because all you are proposing today, the ten measures, would be useful to bring a financial study to see how much billions are worth, Mr Kegeroglu. I believe that you are a party which has also been passed by the government during the memorandum period and you should be very careful and responsible when you are placed. On a personal level of four and a half years in the opposition I have not once escaped from the line to put a clear and excessive reason here and raise issues that were out of reality. This is how I am today as Minister. That is why this first major insurance reform was accompanied by the two contagious studies, the National Analogue Authority, which shows sustainability, and the study of the Economic University, which never existed. If now, as Mr President, someone finds himself in a state of unconsciousness and comes to the point of changing these things and making the person sensitive and the good, we will, in very short time, relive this unfair country, the violence to see pension cuts being cut off. We won't allow it. Our insurance system has entered a balance. I now come to this matter. The legislative framework for the employment of pensioners - I should like to add that since the first time - has been tightened up with the change in the sentence imposed on the pensioner who has failed to declare the start of his employment to both the insurer and his subsidiary, i.e. e. EFKA. In particular, failure to comply with the declaration shall entail a charge of the pensionable amount equal to the amount of its twelve monthly pensions. The state enables the retired person to work, we now give him 70%, but it is unacceptable and we tighten up the framework if the pensioner who works is undeclaredly conscious. This is therefore a series of beneficial interventions by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs aimed at encouraging pensioners to work and their income support, but in combination with legality. Now, I'd like you to take care of me, because it's worth what I'm going to tell you. With regard to the applicable circular of Article 20 of Law No.4387/2016, which was published in SYRIZA and provided an analogue pension cut, i.e. the pensioner's pensioner's pension was reduced by 60% for all the days during which his employment lasted, I inform you that this is a circular that was issued with a broad broad broad interpretation of the law. What were the results? I want you to listen to me, Mr Colleague, because what I will say in the Chamber for the first time is worth. This circular was never implemented, it did not have any effect at all, because the circular was inapplicable due to the lack of appropriate support software to the FBI. After study and research, we have found that it is impossible to produce such a functional information system with the help of which the proportional reduction in the pension provided for in this circular will be applied. It is another problem between what we inherited from the SYRIZA government. They legislated first, and in the circulars they wrote second inapplicable. This circular and this directive, Mr Kegeroglu, had never been implemented, it was impossible to implement. So, now we're talking about something that didn't exist. Inapplicable provisions, interpretative circulars, unfounded and unapplicable. We have established a rule that regulates the employment of pensioners in a uniform way. We simplified the process, making functional and easily accessible. We abolished the punishment for retired workers' provision of L.4387/2016, recognizing their offer to society and exploiting their experience. In any case, we are considering whether and how it can be done and how to deal with the temporary temporary and hourly employment of pensioners. If and since, Mr Kegeroglu, we can find the way, it will come to Parliament, but it will come to Parliament in such a way - or it will be circular - that will be applicable. Finally, what has been done for decades in the insurance system, circulars and directives that have not been implemented. That is what we are now living with with, and with, the unfinished pensions. A fragmented insurance system, dozens of funds, a mosaic full of exceptions and special regimes, Mrs Michaelidou. That was the country's insurance policy. And now we have united it, we now have a single national social security institution. And the questions you ask about outstanding pensions are justified. Four months the employees went and took the leave of the special purpose of e-ECA. It was reasonable to raise the amount of outstanding pensions, I say. I never lied, nor will I lie. Twenty-five thousand unregistered secret pensions were found, which I showed and added to the stock of the deadlines. In July we will also present the digital system "ATLAS", which is the beginning of the end of a pathogenous decades for Greece and Greek pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our first question with reference to the question of the cycle of petitions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘The employer's contributions to the insurance of his employees, engineers and old insured, 2007-2013’. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u115	In making a new statement, let me say that one of the five issues that we raised in the last one said it would. On serious issues, of course, there were no answers. And not only have there been no answers, but we have only asked and found our trouble that things New Democracy promised will do, such as reinstatement of the CSCE, and it doesn't do today, you know, it's our fault that we ask why it doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u116	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u117	Then why did you vote against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u118	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u119	So you agreed with the abolition of SYRIZA's ESS. And that's what you give me the opportunity to say that you would have abolished it beforehand if we hadn't stopped you. Let us not open this debate now. But let us say that there is no need for intransigence in relation to real problems of retired people. The logic you said that some should die and end or our young people or pensioners find ourselves completely opposed. And young people must have their own opportunities and of course must not be drowned by the insurance contributions, as SYRIZA has done, but pensioners must have a decent living. And young people when they become retired, have a decent pension. Because in the way you do it, they'll probably get an allowance, Mr. Brutsi. That is the problem for young people today that will be the pensioners tomorrow. So I come to ask you about young people. I told you at the beginning, and I think you've been informed of what's going on in Heraklion. The airport is excluded from the tourist bus drivers. The reason is the refusal to recruit and, of course, the fact that the collective agreement is actually ending, which should, on the basis of exceptional circumstances, be extended until at least 30-9-2020 or for another year. You should take the initiative to extend the collective agreement to ensure that there are no arbitrary practices in this area. It is an issue that concerns workers in this area today, together with others of course, they are severely affected. You have to contact, if you have anything to announce, to stop the incidents because incidents occur this time. That is why I told you at the outset about this procedure. For the insurance contributions due by the former ECE analysis, you know it. I have sent you the data, it relates to the obligation of the OEC and, by extension, the OAED, which is its successor, to pay insurance contributions from the period 2007 to 2013, which it is treated as an employer. Employer, then, OAED, who belongs to you, and the beneficiary of the EFCA who also belongs to you. Because, therefore, the ECA with a number of its decisions and documents asks the OAED to pay these contributions and the OAED does not listen to it as if it were insurgent in this place, there are you know areas of autonomous operation, both within you, and I would ask you to ensure that the ECA to the OAED is implemented immediately. What for? Because pensions for these pensioners do not come out and if they come out, they go out without the calculation of those years. This is our request to instruct the OAED immediately to pay the contributions it owes from 2007-2013. I'm filing the FBI documents, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u120	We believe you, Mr Kegeroglu, there is no question of trust. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u121	Because Mr Kegeroglou in his position in his prototype is reopening political issues in general, I would like to say that I am sorry. I am sorry on behalf of the Change Movement, because what Mr Kegeroglu says and the billions he shares does not dare SYRIZA say. So I tell you, and I recommend that you be more careful and more responsible. Greece will not return to reasonable populism and demagogy. They will not come here sensitive to share billions without having something to say, such as proposing a study from which we will find the budgetary balance I have said before, nor is pensions a pocket money, Mr Kegeroglu. The fiscal study, which seems to have not had time to read, shows exactly that we have changed insurance and that the country now has an insurance policy with a view to ensuring pensions, with pensions corresponding to the worker's sweat and the contributions it gives and with a state which gives him the basic pension with a perspective by 2070. Such documentation for an insurance system in the country had never come in the past. In fact, not only did this come, but, as I explained in the previous question, for the first time, the special study of the Athens University of Economic Adequacy came. Didn't you read these? Can't you just go to the trouble and see what the evidence is that our position is evidenced? Are you generally and vaguely showing up to every category of insured worker's money? Even SYRIZA doesn't do that, Mr. Kegeroglu! Neither is SYRIZA! I'm going to your question now. As regards your question, the former OEC did not pay the employers' contributions to the TSMEDE for permanent engineers who were insured from 2007 until its abolition, for whom employers' contributions were already paid in favour of IKA, since its legal service notified in 2007 and 2009 that the former OEC was exempted from payment, invoking the provision of Article 17(2) of Act 2963/54. However, OAED, as a universal successor to the former OEK, has incorporated OEK engineers into the insurance scheme applicable to OAED engineers and normally gives employers' contributions for TSMEDE to this day, as it does for all engineers, as the transfer to OAED is now governed by the scheme applicable to OAED engineers. However, following the adoption of the Insurance Law 4387/2016, engineers from the former OHIM requested the retroactive payment of employers' contributions from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013. In the period in question, however, the retroactive payment of the contributions does not result either from the opinions of the legal service of the former OAS in 2007 and 2009 or from the opinion of the OAED legal service. In particular, the OAED legal department, under its number 3391/22-2018 opinion, replied that OAED is not required to pay the TSMEDE retroactive contributions, since there has been no provision to overturn the provision invoked by the legal service of the former OEK and, on the other hand, because the OAED’s obligation as a universal successor of the former OEK is not born. However, since the EFCA Contributions Directorate continues to ask the OAED to pay the retroactive contributions, the OAED responded with 467/6-3-2020 and requested an answer as to whether it was finally obliged to pay the contributions, while notifying the above opinion of its legal service. The e-ECA, in turn, submitted a question, the protocol number 102753/29-5-2020, on my day, now, for an opinion to the office of the Legal Council of e-ECA, the Legal Council of the State on the payment of the employers' contributions to OAED, formerly OEC, for EFCA, formerly EFFA, and TSMEDA. The office of the law board of e-Efca, the Legal Council of the State replied with its document in 102753/8-6-2020 a month ago that this question should be submitted by the Ministry of Labour as the supervisory body of OAS and e-Efca. Thus, a document will be drawn up by the Ministry's services in the next period and we will therefore be awaiting a final reply from the Legal Council of State in order to do so accordingly and to resolve the matter definitively. If the Council of State decides that the OAED must pay retroactive contributions of CSMEDE, it will. Otherwise, he won't pay them. In any case, then, we will do by following the letter of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u122	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I believe that political manipulation should be different. The employer's obligation to pay the insurance contributions is certified. And an employer in this respect was the OEC and successor to the OEC is the OAED, who continues to receive contributions from workers, as was the case with the OEC. They are smaller, but they continue to be collected. And I would like to tell you that the OAED in 2018 had about 560 million surpluses and in 2019 it had about 580 million surpluses, due also to these contributions which, while it collects, do not fulfil its obligations. You have chosen a different method, wash your hands, give the Legal Council a decision. The Legal Council, of course, decides in accordance with the provisions in force. I therefore hope that it will fully vindicate the workers and reiterate the universal obligation that all employers have to pay insurance contributions. He won't say that, but something different. However, there is a need for an opinion from the Legal Affairs Council as to whether the employer should pay the insurance contributions. This is innovative and, indeed, from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which is supposed to be ruthless and guardian of this obligation of employers. I urge you once again to proceed, if necessary, in legislation, to facilitate the process and not to pull it into length. Because we know that many times the Legal Council has taken a long time to give its opinion. It is already a matter of dragging itself into multiple opinions. And there is the opinion of the Legal Council that it should, but it is older, and the administrations did not hear it. I close the subject I mentioned twice and you did not hear it. It's not a general political issue. It is currently unfolding in Heraklion. And if you are not ready, because of course it is difficult to contact, see the issue that has arisen since the completion of our debate here. It is not a good picture to see incidents at Heraklion airport when we are actually waiting for people to come, tourists, to work on tourism. And if you consider that what workers are asking for, that is to say, to continue to apply the collective labour agreement and not to be interrupted in the midst of a crisis, it is right, go ahead. We are here to support legislation, if you like. In our view, you must do so. And you can even do it by ministerial decision. This is neither a question of millions nor a question of populism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, it is an honour and from what you said, Mr Brutsi, I take this as a positive one and thank you very much. It was not possible for SYRIZA to ask you a question about the ESS, Mr. Brutsi. Of course it wasn't possible, since he cut it, and you keep it cut. You continue to deprive it of the small pensioners. Can SYRIZA ask you a question? Is it possible, then, that Mr Katrugalos who cut it off and told you, "Mr. Brutsis, why don't you give the CSCE?" Is it possible to tell you? There's no way. But I'm telling you, the Change Movement is asking you and, of course, PASOK is asking you to do it for an institution that is a small pensioner, while other measures ensured a minimum level of living. But this level of living is not just about retired people. You know very well that in the crisis it has helped the whole society. But today he's in impoverishment. We're talking about a EUR 175 pension in a disabled person and you're telling me he was right to do so? That's not possible now! It's not possible! See it again, rethink it and stop being so absolute in the issues that have to do with the mistakes of the previous government. Otherwise, tell us that the previous government did well and that they misplaced you. Because they claim that last year they had a surplus of EUR 2 billion in ECA, while this year there are a deficit of EUR 2 billion. After you told me that you didn't say that, and SYRIZA didn't say that either, tell us, did well, did SYRIZA do it, and you badly went out or badly did it, and they had to be corrected? Well, of course SYRIZA can't say it! Is it possible for SYRIZA to oppose? He's throwing the ball! Is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u124	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u125	Mr Kegeroglu again forces me to bring back to the Chamber the reality in terms of the insurance balance. Because he began to talk again about deficits which lead someone who hears him to think that the insurance system in the country is uncertain and that pensions are at risk. I would like to repeat this once again: the financial balance of the insurance system has been fully achieved. This is also confirmed by the national analogy study. This is also confirmed by the adequacy of pensions, the two studies, but also by the course of insurance as it was. Unfortunately, pandemic, which is an exogenous factor that goes beyond the geographical limits of our country and our political decisions, has hit the incomes of the insurance system unforeseen. But the state budget is at this point and it pays the amount required for the payment of pensions. We believe within ourselves that this time period has been specific since 2021 with the change and economic prospects and growth of the country and the decline in unemployment that will occur at high speed and de-escalation will restore the balance of the system. Secondly, Mr Kegeroglu, you are not more sensitive. I will repeat that the role and purpose of each politician is to ensure not only the present social and economic balance, but also to see the future. And I'll repeat it to you. Not only with my question today, but you have asked me dozens of questions several times. In any question you add to me some millions, billions. If, my generation, you did what you say, we would be in new memorials and in new difficult situations for the country. We are bringing economic and budgetary balance. We're building up our finances. Let's move on. Of course, as long as you ask questions, I'll be here to answer you. You know that. I do not follow the example of my predecessor and my predecessors who were absent from the House. You made me take the lead in questions and answers. Here, it's the temple of democracy. As Minister, I have too much time - and I have to devote it - to answer the questions raised by the parliamentary groups. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. As far as the issue is concerned, this is not about money which is my own, Mr Kegeroglu. I'm not gonna pay money out of my pocket to be a blanket and handless. It's public money. And I have to take care of them. And to guard them, I'll follow legality. Whatever the Legal Council of the State says, we'll do it. The government budget money barbarians were the ones who have really led the Greek economy to a halt for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. In fact, you and Mr. Kegeroglu are champions on the questions. Because without Kegeroglu, you couldn't be a champion in the answers. That makes a lot of difference. And we must credit it to Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u127	I hope it doesn't change Department because I've made seventy-three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u128	We continue with the second with number 5580/7-4-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The problems of the supplementary workers of the Centre for the Social Welfare of Central Macedonia follow." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Let's go for a minute, Minister, to the desert of public welfare. It's not the word I choose. The wilderness is true, with many people who need such structures to resort by giving what they have and do not have in the private sector. There's no worse thing, Minister, than a man working and not being paid, except maybe being unemployed. And that is what the five workers who have left of these afflicted twenty two who were a few years ago of the Centre for Social Welfare of Central Macedonia live. These workers have therefore been unpaid for six months throughout the whole of this situation, which offer their services to vulnerable groups, to disabled people, to children. I've visited the Social Welfare Center several times, and I've seen the wonderful work they actually do. Of course, the situation of these workers over time has never been better. They were hired in 2014 under contract. Since then, we have been to 2020, ancillary workers have been on extensions. They continued to have these problems with their payments. They were never normally paid on time. In any case, there is no worse thing to happen, as we have said, to workers. And there is perhaps no worse space for this to happen, Minister, than a place where workers there should normally be free from work stress, to be able to offer their valuable services for such groups of citizens who, as we said, need social welfare. That is why our question is extremely simple. We ask you and hope that we have a positive answer: What will you do to get these people paid for? Because we are particularly interested in this area, what are you going to do, so that these workers in these areas can finally get rid of the hards of unemployment, redundancy, and have a stability in their work so that they can offer what they have, the wonderful things we have said, to these people? So we ask you about their perpetualness and we expect to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u130	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. The Central Macedonia Social Welfare Centre currently employs two hundred and fifty five employees as permanent staff, twenty-two fixed-term workers and ninety-seven ancillary workers. Of the ninety-seven subsidiary staff, five work for more, as you have said, than twenty-four months. The possibility of extending the contracts of these five workers who are currently working as ancillarys was established by four successive laws of the SYRIZA Government, as you said, in 2015, in 2016, 2017 and 2018. However, the SYRIZA Government did not ensure that these workers were organically integrated into the permanent staff of the welfare centre. I'll be even more specific. SYRIZA anticipated organic positions in 2018, but did not do anything to start the recruitment process through ASEP. This situation we found a year ago, July 2019. What have we done since July 2019? Within less than a month, we found the president of the AACC to squeeze the bell and explain how important it is to call these organic positions. We sent the file on August 14th to the AACC for all posts and all specialties. We have launched the competition in close cooperation with the ASA. Today, we are in the process of evaluating the candidates' files. I would mention this in order to understand that we extended the extension we made by law this week, Mr.4701/2020, on Tuesday, which passed us, gave it to ensure that the workers are not kept uncovered, but also the structures, until the procedures of the IASC are completed. We started as soon as we took over. So, first, yes, you're right. The extensions of contracts have been given successively, as you have pointed out. The first four, however, was given by the previous government without any objection at all. We gave an extension last week so that these positions could be extended until 31 December 2020, but having ensured that the AACC process has moved forward. I dare say that, if there were no pandemic, these organic positions would already exist. Second point: The delay in the payment of the staff from August 2018 until today has nothing to do with the indifference or analgesia of the current administration of the Centre for Social Welfare of Central Macedonia. It is because of a change in the methodology of the Court of Auditors' audit, the decisions of which, as you know, are binding on every body managing public money. In particular, until 31-7-2018, the AS that had exceeded the 24 months of employment was normally paid, because the Court of Auditors had found that only the preventive control of its first payment warrant was sufficient. The reasoning was that the extension of the contracts did not result in any changes in the contract and therefore did not result in wage effects. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I don't want a minute more, Mr President. From 31-7-2018 this reasoning changed to the Court of Auditors. By means of an act of the same, he legitimately considered payment orders strictly as that date. From 1-8-2018, and after the center, it was not legalized to cover the remuneration of the ancillary staff who had exceeded the 24-month period. So what did the Social Welfare Centre do? He took out all the possibilities that the law gave him. The Centre made every effort, of course, within the framework of the law and its commitments to meet the demands of the workers. Of course, however, it is obliged to comply with the Court of Auditors' decisions, namely to obey the law. By applying the law, workers, as you said, submitted an application for interim measures, including the payment of their employees. For the last time, from October 2019 until today, workers have submitted - and because they were closed and the courts - on 25-5-2020 an application for interim measures at the Thessaloniki Peace Court, which has also been accepted on 5-6-2020. The decision was just adopted positively by the court of peace. What we are waiting for now is for it to be cleaned up, for the warrant to be brought to the welfare centre and, of course, for the appropriations for the payment of workers to be approved. For the rest of your questions, I reserve the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u132	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have just described the incredible suffering of these people, who suffer the consequences of bureaucracy, anti-grassroots policy, both together, of the policy that says that "You will be hired as an advisor, as a contractor, and we will see whether you will be paid. We guarantee to pay you for the first two years. Then maybe we don't pay you,"? Everything you've said is the adventure and suffering of these people. I told you it was twenty-two. Nowadays, there are five left. The other seventeen have decided, they are tired of going to court, making insurance measures, claiming the money they have worked for. These five insist, remain, work. They are also the ones whom the Government called you "heroes". Only you forget, your government, I mean, pay them. In any case, we received the same answers because we have asked other questions about this - by SYRIZA Ministers at the time. On the same basis, we were told that 'it is not our fault, it is the Court of Auditors', it is the law'. But you finally vote for the laws. The laws are not written on stone, they can change at some point. If you don't like them, if they're not good, in order for these people to be paid, they can change. What else can we say? Now what we want to say is this. You said there is a positive decision by the court - we did not know that - that we expect it to be cleaned. Okay, very nice to get paid. They meanwhile have unpaid, as far as we know, and their overtime since August 2019. But we want to raise a more general issue, Minister, in relation to space, because you are Minister in this area, in the field of social welfare. Do you seriously think that this space can be served by workers with such insecure employment relationships? Is this work in social welfare a seasonal job? Is it like the gathering of olives or of peaches? So we can understand. Of course it isn't. That is why we are saying that the nature of this service, the nature of this work, if you like, is even more important, because it is about people with disabilities, children with disabilities, and we know - it is not only about education, it also applies to welfare - the importance of the stability of a relationship between a person who has such problems, including in nursery or educational staff. At some point, that's where you'll have to see him. We know your general policies, I mean your government and your party, coordinates and coordinates. We know where you're moving about. However, this area is of the opinion that it has the right to specifically request that these industrial relations do not exist. And, of course, because this is crucial and because it is also related to it, it has to do with the funding of all these structures. And, as I told you before, it is well known that it is a choice not only of your own government and of your own party, but of the whole choice of the European Union to occupy this place from the so-called private initiative, which, of course, often leads to very bad situations. So we also want to hear from you what you are going to do, so that these people, these five, the seventeen, as you said - because the centre has permanent staff - can also become permanent staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. I heard, dear colleague, that you know the coordinates and coordinates of our government. So let me remind the rest of Parliament. The coordinates of our Government are the absolute protection of our most vulnerable fellow citizens. It is social policy, which ensures that no one stays behind, and that is what we have done. I don't know if I'm being understood, or I don't say it as loud and far as I should be. Within a month we have been proclaiming organic positions. The previous government, which legislated them, within a year and a half had done nothing. So please do not invoke the great need for organic positions when our actions alone demonstrate that we fully understand that. The fact that we are also coming within a month of taking up these organic posts is that we are running the competition, clearly shows that we know very well, as you have said, the need for these organic positions to be established. I know her very well why? Because in a country that has been through the crisis that has passed through the decades of monuments, welfare is now subordinated, welfare is an area that we want to help and support as much as possible and to do what goes through our hands for it. As you said, but as I understand every day through my workplace and with my conversation, if you wish, with both the workers and the administrative staff, there is an even more need for stability from the benefit of the elderly, there is a need for stability in the area of the elderly. He can't leave work personnel and at night wonder where they're going and who they're going to do next day. It needs stability in the small part of the children, on the part of child protection, on their caregivers. So, knowing specifically the part of welfare - and, if you want, to me, the area of welfare and social solidarity needs even more stable staff, even from the area of education - these relations of stability, which you are rightly emphasising, is something that you find a common place with us. It's the least common denominator. We need to know that the caretaker of an elderly man yesterday will be his caretaker and tomorrow, because otherwise he will wake up at night, he will cry and cry, and the rest of the elderly will cry around him. We know that very well. That is why, in a month's time, we have called these organic positions, and now in this communication we have put a special moleculosis - and here I go to the second part of your question - for those who have the special experience, already within the welfare centres, so that those people who have already developed a relationship with the beneficiaries, with the benefit of the closed structures, are the same as those who have already developed in the pandemic period. Do you know that we raised their staff in the pandemic in one third? One third we received special staff - precisely because we know - in very specific qualifications of doctors, nurses, caregivers, bankers, infants. We have increased by a third of their staff, because we know that especially in the pandemic and with special-purpose permits, the state could not risk keeping these people without the services it so much needs. So, really, I'm telling you on account of knowledge and with a lot of work on it, we do everything we can. Can we do more? We can and we'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-03-S1-commons.u137	With the consent of the House at 14.55, the sitting on Monday, July 6, 2020, at 16.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate under number 23/12/28-5-2020 on a topical question by Members of the SYRIZA on the subject: 'Dangerous and ineffective policy implemented by the Government in refugee matters'. Have a good weekend!
