ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Culture and Sport, Home, Infrastructure and Transport and State tabled a draft law on "Promoting Electricity". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Advancing and simplifying the strengthening of audiovisual works, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, developments are running, speeds are increasing and we cannot monitor from a distance. I am pleased that the Ministry of Digital Governance is constantly modernising, providing services, simplifying and speeding up issues relating to the interconnection and communication of citizens with public services, constantly upgrading and modernising all services. The bill we are debating today in plenary session comes to its main points, first of all, to supplement, correct and also cover weaknesses in the implementation of Law 4487/17 concerning the production of audiovisual works, by intervening with the minimum thresholds of eligible expenditure and by reducing these limits on a case-by-case basis or by increasing the rate of aid to give further incentives to investment and money to the audiovisual production area in our country, as well as to tax incentives and obligations and analyses that facilitate the production of these works. It is specifically coming to reduce for films, documentaries and short films from EUR 100,000 to EUR 60,000 the minimum of eligible expenditure. At the same time, I should like to say that for issues relating to television series - the number was the hundred incidents, as was shown at the beginning of the bill, but I think the Minister referred to a reduction, at the seventies - at EUR 15 000 per incident, the minimum of eligible expenditure. Procedures and capabilities are integrated into the "ERT S.A." which, when any intervention is made in the realisation and production of audiovisual works by the "ERT S.A.", may also include such investments in this bill. Eligible costs are supported, increasing the percentage from 25% to 35% for the remuneration and the rights of script and music, the remuneration of the director, script and both protagonists and the producer of the audiovisual project. The aid rate is also increasing from 35% to 40% of the value of total works produced in the case of audiovisual works, with the aid rate - the maximum - from all State and other interventions where it is difficult to produce the audiovisual project to raise 80% of the 70% presently. In addition, integration procedures are simplified and all investment projects evaluation procedures are accelerated, precisely so that there is an additional incentive to maximise resources and revenue in terms of production. For the first time, the provisional certificate is issued, certifying that the operations carried out are in line with those provided for in the project for placing the investment. Also, as far as investment aid decisions are concerned, they will only be published in the 'DENMARK' and not in the Government's Official Journal, as is the case until now where the summary of the decision to integrate audiovisual production is published. In addition, as I have said, tax and other incentives are being given so that one can get into the production of such a project. It was important that the intervention initiated during the pandemic involving intact prescribing, which was given the opportunity without the patient's contact with the doctor to be able to prescribe this. This move becomes permanent, which is important, unless for specific reasons contact between a patient and a doctor is necessary. With regard to the electronic application and the submission of supporting documents and documents relating to the provision of services and compensation for specific and individual cases, all of this is now included and can be done electronically through the single digital portal of the public administration. So all of these are additional elements and for additional categories they serve the citizen, they facilitate it and at the same time speed up procedures. An important intervention, too, is the possibility of being able to obtain from a higher education institution, obtain any information, even this state degree, the degree of study, via e-diplomas, and at the same time transfer the right to transfer and derive through a digital database and interoperability between university educational institutions and the IATP, through a system developed in the single digital portal. This, beyond the speed, gives additional possibilities to remove also problems of fake diplomas and need not be carnets or all that exist, but can also be digitalised. As far as - and this is important - the creation of the National Civil Communications Register through the General Secretariat of Information Systems of Public Administration and the Ministry of Digital Governance is concerned, it is a central unique database that the citizen can once provide information on the e-mail address, address, cell phone number and automatically complete all this by identifying the citizen horizontally and interoperablely with all the public services provided, through the Single Digital Portal of Public Administration. These data, in the event of a change, within one month, must be supplemented by the citizen in order to always be up-to-date. In cases of payments, it is necessary and important to intervene to identify the tax register number with the IBAN account in order to allow for direct identification and speed in transactions and accounts payments. In addition, for tax information and for a debt attestation from 30 October, it will be possible to obtain, through the interoperability of the systems, the body which needs such information, of course, following a mandate and a certificate from the citizen, by linking the systems with each other. On the question of staffing the Single Digital Gate Coordination Service, further important intervention is being made. And here I would like to say - and we have also said in committee - that in trying to meet the needs of the Ministry of Digital Governance, because they extend and cover the issues of the modernisation of public administration to all public services, additional needs for additional services, so it also needs specific capabilities and supplies. They therefore come to be covered with additional positions, as included in the draft law. Significant interference through the creation of the National Register of Minors, which is interconnected with the National Register of Candidate Parents and with the National Register of Candidate Parents, is a direct matching that accelerates, which simplifies, ensuring transparency and sensitive personal data, which enables children to meet needs more quickly and do not remain in structures that certainly do not look for honor today for our society. So this intervention is important. I know that more than two hundred applications have been made so far for these cases. 60% refer to cases concerning the National Register of Applicants for Parents and the remaining 40% to the National Register of Applicants for Parents. I would also like to add a few remarks concerning the amendments which are being tabled today in plenary session. The first concerns 5G technologies and this upgrade from the network system we have so far, from 4G to 5G, is not just a change at mobile level, but is a significant technological change at another level. It is not only about speeds, which we are talking about increasing speeds more than a hundred times, about the possibilities they provide to interconnect different and many devices and systems, by exchanging information, about the possibilities offered at the level of robotics, about medical facilities not only from a service distance but also of great interference, for example in teleoperatives, and also about safety issues, both in transport and transport, and by adding the possibility that this system can even replace the physical presence of drivers in the car. All these possibilities are available safely and quickly, so that we can change levels by using these technologies, and that is why we are opening up the space for the period from 3,400 to 3,800 MHz, so that these 5G networks can be developed and, by the end of the year, the prerequisites for them to be able to operate have been completed. It is also important that new services are constantly added through the civil service centres, which serve the citizen. New news is the possibility of communicating via video call, where it is possible and with a demonstration of identity that the citizen cannot move or have no other potential through the system to exploit, be able to communicate and receive whatever service he needs. Ladies and gentlemen, a new addition to the amendment concerning the National Information Service. Of course, further analysis will also be provided by the Minister. However, I would like to say that the issue of modernising and exploiting technologies in such a very sensitive space, such as the National Information Service, is essential for these technologies to be able to be exploited much more in this area. One is modernisation, and the second is the possibility of raising resources, through the creation, for example, of the Centre for Technological Support, Development and Innovation. It is an additional amendment, which refers to the programme of financial support for services and families to provide care and hospitality to children of pre-school age. It is something that had started through the ESRB, but because of the difficult criteria, some families were unable to join. It is also possible for these families, and I am referring to private workers as well as public servants' families. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by turning into the last amendment, which refers to the staff concerned with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. We know of its upgrading, we know the work that it has done, with significant results for all actions, even within the emergency pandemic. We know that the results of its intervention were both substantial and effective. Surely it needs support, upgrade, modernisation that is evolving, so that it can meet the needs that are constantly emerging and evolving. With these remarks, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Digital Governance, because every day in practice it proves that high-speed modernises all Greek public and public services, simplifying procedures, speeding up safeguarding and quality procedures, as required by the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u4	And we thank Mr. Tagaras. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Marios Katsis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a more general political comment on the bill that we are now called upon to vote and debate. A comment on the basis of what has been said at the four meetings of the committees, but also to explain to the House and to those who are following us what the government is aiming at with this bill. The bill is roughly divided into four axes. The first axis is audiovisual, i.e. speeding up the attraction of audiovisual productions in the country. In fact, the Government acknowledges the work of SYRIZA with Law 4487/2017 and the creation of the National Centre for Audiovisual Media, which we have provided tools and incentives to film in Greece, video clips, documentaries, video games and anything concerning audiovisual work. Who was that? One was the reimbursement of expenses and the second was the refund of tax. You are bringing changes, therefore, where others are in the right direction, others are completely wrong and others are right, but they are reckless. More detailed, I'll talk to you later. On the second axis we have changes in digital governance. On this axis you bring and legislate useful tools for digitising the civil-public relationship, which you temporarily brought by an act of legislative content during Lockdown. Most of them are in agreement with us, and we have also made you constructively critical of their implementation. But you're bringing in more. You are changing your Ministry's presidential decree, admitting with an impressive self-criticism in the explanatory memorandum to the bill on how you set up the Ministry, which says, 'It brought delays and ineffectiveness'. It is just as we have pointed out. But you are bringing your favorite topic with you as a right -wing government. Rusfetti, posthumous, transfusions - distractions by way of derogation from all the texts, in an attempt to completely salvage the state, resurrecting the worst days of customerism and old-fashioned communism. The third axis is the lateral revision of SYRIZA's emblematic law 4538/2018 for assumption and adoption. Under the pretext of digitising the procedure - and I say a pretext, because the procedure was already digitised - you come to Articles 23 and 24 and bypass a crystalline and transparent procedure that speeded up the process of matching candidates for parents with candidates, and give - listen, listen! - the authorisation of ministers by a joint ministerial decision to determine the bodies, i.e. private bodies, where appropriate, while the law of SYRIZA explicitly provided for which public bodies are responsible. On my fourth axis old sieve. No problems, without consultation, surprises, which some are unacceptable, rosphetological and dangerous to the public interest. Maxime's logic is, we found a priest to bury five to six. In other words, we have found a bill that we will "plant" everything that has left out of the other ministries and will pass dark provisions so that we can catch the opposition in the sleep. Am, I don't! It is so crucial that a number of amendments, which we could well claim to be the main reason for the bill, are to pass these provisions and not the bill itself. Bring national provisions with incredible cuff and spooning, such as the one that converts the PPE into the punctual memory of the CFP. Modification to take twenty-eight posters - Roussefetti by way of derogation from all the provisions of all the provisions of Mr Chardalia, even if he is a Member. Amendment by the Ministry of Education, which inhibits compulsory two-year pre-school education, which SYRIZA proudly introduced. However, you also bring provisions for preparing the digital spectrum auction, a public resource that the State must receive, as far as possible, a higher price for speeding up the network of 5G. Again surprisingly, without consultation, only on the pretext that you are in a hurry, and a year now you have done absolutely nothing but communication. This is a summary of the legislation, for which the National Representation is now called upon to take up a position and then I will be placed in detail on all four axes for the points that we agree and disagree. However, what we can summarily say is that you are legislating without cohesion, with provisions that are irreversible. It's a monument of poor legacy. In fact, you are abdicating us that we are a miserable Opposition and invoking the need for consensus, while at the same time you do not adopt any of our proposals and bring provisions concerning sensitive issues, such as the OSH, without consultation and completely sudden. But we have not expected anything better than a tough government, a slippery anti-democratic catastrophe lately. We're here to control you and reveal you. If you think we're not going to get a mess of what you're doing, you're wrong. It is also a sign of arrogance to underestimate our intelligence and Parliament. I therefore make a summary of our proposals and our objections, without any misery, without any complexes, but with the courage of responsible Opposition. We have told you and the Greek people know that we are not, like the New Democracy, a populist or a congressional opposition. So the first axis is audiovisual. It is a sector for the country, which is dynamic in our development strategy, with comparative advantages. We have therefore brought the National Centre for Audiovisual Media with incentives for cash rebate and tax rebate and we have created the institutional framework. As a result, we see that it has worked very effectively. You admitted that eighty-five investment projects have been approved, amounting to EUR 56 million. In my capacity, Mr. Ministers, as an engineer, I know a general principle. When something works, you don't mind. Instead of making marginal improvements, you are tempting it with doubtful results and delays in the audiovisual sector and paying for the ecosystem. I told you at all the previous meetings and I did not receive a serious answer: why are you late with the thirteen film offices in the regions, when the vast majority of the regions are in your political area? Where's the digital repository project that we delivered to you in progress? Mostly, where are the EUR 100 million of liquidity, 25 million of the Guarantee Fund and 75 million of the Investment Fund for audiovisual production? Are we still waiting for the "black" Minister of Remission to sign the Public Investment Programme? In our persistent questions, Minister, when there is a policy in the middle, you leave the bouquet for your Undersecretaries, such as Mr Georgiontas, who are evident that for political reasons he takes the floor, because you are trying to show the image of the technocrat and remain politically idle and when the ball is burning, you make it lightly! Let's go down. You bring changes in a positive direction and recognize it, for example, in Article 4 on the pay of the basic artists, who, in the pandemic, Mrs. Mendoni left them at God's mercy. We will be voting in favour of it. In a positive direction, too, the increase in cash rebate, from 35% to 40%. We have asked you in committees on several occasions, like the bodies, to take it to 45%, because you have absolutely no commitment from the European Union's state aid and limitations to institutionalise it, i.e. to 45%. It doesn't sweat your ear. Nevertheless, we are positive about the increase to 40%. But we'll insist and wait until the last minute you take it to 45%. On the contrary, however, we are negative that you are reducing the threshold for total eligible expenditure on series incidents to EUR 15 000 per incident, while it was 30,000 per incident to date. In fact, Mrs Buddhism in the committees - it is not clear that you have adopted this proposal - as a 'crowd', perhaps, has asked for an additional reduction in the incidence threshold, from one hundred to seventy. So you say that you adopt it. The committees have told you that only wage costs exceed EUR 15 000. So this is a clear gift to the channels. After having eaten it with the "Petsa List" to give you a night's voyage, after you have relieved it of 21,000 for the occupation of frequency, for the licenses for 2020, since you did not say anything about what you will do to implement the lawned 1.5% of the support of audiovisual producers, you come to allow additional state money to be taken from the EMCDDA in order to make preys on decent producers, with low wages and minimum jobs. You are thus altering the very spirit of the law of the EMEA. We have told you that we have had a balance - and we have achieved it - between the financial support of production companies and product production, with higher quality standards. We managed to regenerate the mythology in the country. And the results of the quality and final creations have all been seen: 'Wild bees', 'Other me', international productions and so on. With Article 3, you are coming to support ERT from the EMEA. And we told you: increase, if you like, the ERT budget for that. It is paradoxical to state aid. Instead of inscribing video games and documentaries, incorporate ERT. It reminds me a lot of those four hundred grand that he took from the "Petsa List" public television to advertise a public health message that should be free of charge. Unless they're the leftovers of Mr. Pesha and Maximus' cooking and you put them there to ERT to justify them. We'll investigate it. We also disagree with the fact that you enter private individuals in the assessment of investment projects when we talk about state money. Evaluable and rated will be one and this, creating a conflict of interest. It is a complete mistake that you also leave State aid and public money, without democratic control, in the hands of a man, the President of the EMEA, in conjunction with the abolition of publication in the FEK, as well as double registration and registration controls. The revocation decision must also be signed by the Minister. Look at the contradiction. The President of the EMEA is in charge, but the Minister answers. When we talk about state money and aid, there cannot be democratic control. If there's one mistake, who's paying for it? Look, the classic excuse is that when one is going to do opaque procedures, it invokes acceleration, "we can't make it" and so on. This is where you follow the tornado, that is. I do not know whose advice you are hearing and you are adopting such provisions, but I would be very, very careful in your position. Now we go to the second axis, to digital governance, to the multi-headed, hydro-headed ministry that you have created, the confession of failure, that is, to the "executive state". We have another coordinating agency that coordinates coordinators, group groups, poster poster groups, selection of executives by way of derogation from the provisions in force with a model set by the same Minister. The party state of the Right at its best! You recommend sixty new posts to the Ministry, the fifteen of which are experts and you hire whom you like. Carabinato rosfetti! Moreover, there are reclassifications in the structures and responsibilities of the Ministry. We did not say that the staffing of public administration structures is a bad thing. As we have said, however, at the first meeting, structures and responsibilities cannot be changed every month, because you will lose crucial time until the structure is stabilised and can be efficient. We told you that you were bringing a hydro-headed and overconcentrating structure when you set up the Ministry last year and that it would not work. Proof that you have not made a horizontal project nor have you completed a co-financed project nor have you completed any of our ready one year now. But what have you done? Micro-changing that you and Maximos media are presenting as the Kapodistian digital reforms. And all this, after your ministry got stuck with the virus of direct commissions, which the entire government is suffering from, is otherwise non-state-owned entrepreneurship. In two and a half months, your Ministry gave you close to EUR 5 million with a limit of EUR 20,000 as foreseen by the law, 19,900 plus, except. We have the whole list, and we're looking for it. The champion in it is Mr. Easterides of the "Information Society". Some of them are interesting. I posted you in social media, Mr. Minister, a survey of the "information society" to MRB, to investigate citizens' opinion on the "information society". The New Democracy Members here do not know whether there is a role in the 'Information Society'. But you don't care. All you care about is paying rather no image of Moses and nothing else. Another: Digital Farmer to an entirely irrelevant body. What exactly do you think you're gonna do like this? Will you make digital transformation by disseminating the money of Greek taxpayers who see poverty, tolerance and unemployment beating the door? That's not your money. They're not yours, gentlemen of the government, and we didn't leave you full of funds to party. In the second chapter, we have provisions concerning prescribing and electronic procedures for compensation from the EEAS, the electronic search for higher-education diplomas by the State. These provisions are in a positive direction and we support them too. However, in Articles 17 to 19 concerning the identification of the citizen by means of a mobile phone for e-commerce, there is one point which we have pointed out again. You use exclusively the banks and web banking codes to identify, while you should give the possibility to the citizens and the self-representative once, to provide a certificate to the JEP or the DU that the mobile phone number is indeed theirs. It's not a mistake what you're doing, but it's a mistake to be forced to be through banks. So this is the self-pity presence you should have anticipated. At the hearing, there was also a serious dubiousness on your part: the Personal Character Data Protection Authority stated that it was not required by law to give its opinion on both dual identification and intangible prescribing to the legislature. We have a very serious issue here, in my opinion, and I do not want to jeopardise it, but it is a question of institutional order. If the Personal Data Protection Authority does not approve of personal data such as telephone number or disease and treatment received by a citizen, that they will be anonymous, who will do so? You did not give a documented, convincing answer, as we requested. Generally you have an allergy like a government, just like Mrs. Keramea who went to put cameras in the schools without the approval of the authority. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know this, the 'Big Data' is a gold mine for the large multinational, insurance banking companies - GAFAM, etc. - who like to circumvent individual and democratic rights to speculate. Here we have to be very careful. We will follow these closely. On the third axis, for Articles 23 and 24, we are negative. Mrs. Fotou said so to Mrs. Michailidou. With KYA go by SYRIZA's law for matching a child-family to the assumption and adoption. We told you to withdraw it, but you obviously want to put in doubtful private media such as non-governmental organisations. He'll show. I think you should withdraw it even now. I shall close with the amendments, Mr President. I only talked about the bill. However, on Friday night three amendments were introduced. It is a shame to bring significant amendments to an irrelevant bill. Do you think we're naive and underestimate our intelligence? You are bringing an amendment to the interior for the radical restructuring of the NRA, a critical and sensitive infrastructure for the country's national security, with an amendment, without consulting the parties, because it has smoked you. You strip the NSA from its main service, the Electronic Information Division, which is responsible for the country's external security. Listen, it's not about playing with these issues. These are national issues and we ask you, even now, to withdraw this amendment, to convene all parties in any committee you want - either in Institutions and Transparency, or even in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which is secret - to consult and consult and then legislate. My fellow Members doubt if they know what they are voting on. I am also in the essence of the amendment. You strip the National Intelligence Agency from one of the oldest and most critical tracks, the Electronic Intelligence Directorate, and give it to the Armed Forces. And this is where nuclear questions are born, of paramount importance. Did you find a failure of the NRA administration - without a degree - which you have chosen on the basis of what has been done in national matters? That's great. And in any case, you are sending the Ministry of National Defence this basic agency. And what's the NSA gonna do? What's left behind? A stripped Intelligence Service against internal enemies and your political opponents, who according to bet you build it like the old CFP? Do you change the purpose of establishing and operating it as a critical national infrastructure and instead of modernising the electronic Information Division equipment, you're prosecuting it? Is it economical and you didn't have any money? Increase the NDP budget. Moreover, the amendment also provides for the setting-up of a special account of technology, development and innovation that may undertake national and Community resources or private. What are you going to do with this money, gentlemen of the government, after you have kicked out this basic infrastructure and taken it to the Ministry of Defence? What are you gonna do? Will you have left her without renewing equipment? What equipment will you buy and, in fact, not "HUMANY"? Would you also watch the email platforms? Are you going to buy a supercorporate, but will the target be the inner enemy? Are you going to do a political job like the CFP? Mr Pierrakakis, I tell you directly from the Step: we make you fully responsible - you and Mr Mitsotakis - if you cannot guarantee the security of online and electronic conversations in the country, you personally and the Prime Minister. Take this amendment back and bring it into cross-party consultation to any committee you want. As an example, I mentioned the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, since it touches crucial issues. You have thanked the government for taking over Mr Rubbi, who on SYRIZA informed you of the institutions. That's how we demand it. Even with the employees' association of the Directorate of Electronic Information, it was not even consulted by the Koncoleion administration, as I saw a statement that strongly disagrees. So withdraw it. The second amendment concerns the Ministry of Civil Protection, and the fact that you have recently upgraded the many heavy Mr Chardalia from Secretary-General to State Secretary. Now you're running his service with ruffles. Twenty-eight people, all outside the texts, without criteria, without transparency. Do as you like. Invite urgent needs and submissiveness. In fact, as Secretary-General and State Secretary to which Secretary-General was Mr Chardalias head of the General Secretariat? No key employees? Is that how you pulled out a pandemic like that? Now are you claiming you're running the service? Your excuses to sing the state with a party and personal army of Mr. Hardalia are funny. It is a shame on this amendment too. For the Ministry of Education's amendment, you are inhibiting in one year the compulsory two-year pre-school education that we delivered to you with resources, new buildings and nurseries in the municipalities. Now you're inhibiting her. You haven't done anything in a year. Nothing at all. You dry up day after day all the progressive parts we have made at every level. I am closing with the digital spectrum amendment. Although we strongly criticised you at the previous meeting, because you brought the amendment without consultation after we studied it, we have the following points: In Article 1 concerning the digital spectrum and the conversion and transfer of rural to another frequency, since the State has no obligation to compensate the holder of the 3,5 GHz frequency and the costs will be borne by the private successful tenderer, we have no problem and will vote in favour of it. It would be good, however, for large issues, such as the 5G spectrum auction, to have the relevant cross-party consultation. In Article 2 that you are actually changing the standard qualifications of the commander of the EMCDDA can and must not necessarily be a public official, I do not know which plant of the State you have in your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u6	Close now, though, because you have exceeded time by a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u7	I'll be in ten seconds, Mr. President. I don't know who you have in mind. I think Mr Quani's position is trivial. We considered it right for a critical infrastructure which handles state aid, for it to be a public official and for it to be subject to the Public Service Code. Now you want to change it. We will vote 'at present' because we do not know if this change will come to you. Thirdly, in Article 3 digital JEPs, which in fact serve by teleconferencing, are a positive idea, Mr Georgioda. However, it must be on a voluntary basis by the officials and ensure the confidentiality of the transaction and of the non-recording of the video call. If you ensure this, we will be voting in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u8	I would ask that the list of documents be closed. Until the Step is prepared, the special speaker of the Movement of Change Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos will be prepared to speak. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I will need a five-minute tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u10	All right, Mr. Constantopoulos. And the time is not sufficient, but there will be sufficient tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u11	Just don't keep the time just for us, for the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u12	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with the decision of the Supreme Court of Turkey on the conversion of Agia Sophia into a mosque, of course, I would say in essence, at Erdogan's suggestion. Great insult to world culture and desecration to the symbol of Christianity and Orthodoxy. Agia Sophia, ladies and gentlemen, is included in the protected monuments of UNESCO's global cultural heritage. There's only one thing we can say today. Good night in Turkey of the European perspective. However, ladies and gentlemen, we can say good morning in the deep state of Islam. Ladies and gentlemen, this has already become an international issue. However, sanctions are necessary against Turkey before it is too late. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very important bill in plenary, Mr Minister, and this is about digital governance, a bill which brings changes to the aid of audiovisual producers and to the digital services of the public. This, of course, has to do with its relationship with the citizen. We are, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of ongoing crisis both in the area of culture and particularly in the producer sector. In the limited productions, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that there is or dominating working-age conditions. In fact, these conditions prevail in particular for actors, technicians and musicians. Of course the pandemic has come to add and multiply the problems of the industry. In fact, it has led too many workers to unemployment, poverty and poverty. With these data, ladies and gentlemen, no one disputes that the state must use all available tools to support the producers and the investments they propose and make. At the same time, however, support for growth and job creation in our country, particularly in this area. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that the way you choose to achieve these objectives is not the right way to do it. And it is not the right way to work out connections many times, without, of course, rendering the results we expect. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill first of all brings changes to the aid of producers provided by the EMEA. Here I would remind you that the EMEA was set up in 2015. Two years later, under Law 4487/17, its legal framework was established and it involved supporting producers at 35% of eligible costs through the cash rebate. In fact, I would say here, ladies and gentlemen, that with the financing of producers from the EMFF, 75m euros were provided by the Public Investment Programme in the years 2018 to 2022. I would also remind you that since 2007 the Hellenic Film Commission has been operating within the competence of the Hellenic Film Centre, with the aim of attracting and serving foreign producers. Its full institutionalisation was done by Law 3905/2010 by the government of PASOK with the law of Geroulanos. In fact, I would say that it is the only law that exists to date and is about cinema. So the EMEA was created as an additional step towards attracting foreign producers. However, there is one question: if the EMCDDA has achieved the objectives. This is where we have to answer. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is that the ETUC has not been shielded with clear responsibilities. It was badly financed, without any substantial results. This, of course, has to do with the support and development of producers. Finally, it ended up competing both with the Greek Film Centre and with the Hellenic Film Commission. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, did not help as much as production would have been, since today, I would say, a mess in the aid procedure. Aid shall be granted without evaluation and thereafter without the progress of the producers. There are suddenly production companies setting up television production only to get the subsidy. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that another framework will be needed. In fact, I would say here that we need an institutional framework with changes, as I have pointed out in the committees. Ladies and gentlemen, it must finally be clearly the object of each body's operation. It must have clear competences and, indeed, clear competences in the formulation of politics with cinema. Here, Minister, we have already proposed that you should concentrate on a single body, of course, with the necessary adaptations, so that there is clarity, transparency and objectivity in aid. Now, with regard to the specific regulations of the EBRD brought in by the bill, I would say that it is a good thing to increase the rate of cash rebate from 35% to 40%. We, Minister, have proposed that this figure be even greater, especially for production of more than EUR 4 million, and that tax incentives be strengthened. This, of course, will make our country more competitive than other countries. This must be how our country in the producer sector attracts foreign investments and foreign large productions, which will not only create jobs and public revenues, but will advertise our country around the world. In addition, Minister, the bill makes changes to the minimum levels of eligible expenditure. In general this is good, as the objective here should be to support not of the large producers, but of the small and weak producers who need us. After all, they are the small producers who are asking for our support more. However, ladies and gentlemen, certain limits remain high for the Greek reality, namely the EUR 60,000 for short films. Here, Minister, you must see it again. You have not actually answered us either in the debate on the principle or in the articles. We expect you to respond today, so we ask you to see it again. Of course it is crucial to set quality standards for production, not with purely economic criteria. In the same context, I would say, it is a good thing that the beneficiaries of aid are being extended. However, as I have already pointed out to the committee and as we have heard from the institutions and take it into account, Mr Minister, it must finally be made clear what is the case with the yield from the municipal stations of 1.5% of the annual advertising revenues in favour of cinemas which are not, as is required, that is, under German law No 3905/2010. Today this figure is, as we have said in the committees, only ERT. We will be waiting here for your answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to go to the provisions of the bill on digital public services. PASOK, the Change Movement is the prolongation of major public reforms aimed at transparency, clarity and better access for the citizen to services. And that is for one reason, so that the state can modernise. We established the 'GENERAL' which opened a new era in the relations between a State and a citizen. We have introduced e-prescription in the middle of major reactions. The value of this institution, ladies and gentlemen, was finally recognised by everyone. Today, this bill introduces some arrangements which serve the same targeting, namely the service of the citizen, such as intact prescribing, electronic application and supporting documents to compensate for the costs of special treatment for children and adolescents. It's positive. They are also introduced: Automatic transmission of courses to public bodies and in particular to higher education bodies, such as IATAP, automatic issue of tax information evidence, establishment of a National Civil Communications Register by registering data following a request by citizens. In the face of all these provisions, Mr Minister, as we have said in the debate on the principle, but also in the articles, we are of course in a positive position the condition of the existence of security and data protection protocols. Now in terms of Articles 16, 20 and 21 of the draft law on the establishment and staffing of the Single Digital Gate Coordination Service, here, Mr Minister, and we want your attention, these are provisions that give rise to concern. That is to say, a new structure is being created in the Ministry with forty-five staff posts and these posts fall within the Secretary-General. And I ask you here: why haven't you cost these posts and how will they be hired? Is it going to be via S.H.I.E.L.D.? You're not mentioned. Here the new structure is the responsibility of the Secretary-General and the Director-General, as defined by the administrative hierarchy. Most importantly, a new structure is created when the Directorate-General for Electronic Governance currently exists in the Ministry, with eighty-eight-eight employees, which already covers the e-government, sectoral projects in the public sector and the digital strategy. I fear that there will be overlapping issues and confusion of responsibilities between the addresses. Finally, Articles 23 and 24 provide for the interconnection of the National Register of Candidate Parents and the National Register of Candidates for Contractors with the National Register of Minors. We understand the connection. We are, of course, concerned about the fact that there is a lot to be done with a CFO. We have heard the relevant Secretary-General say to the committee that there will be no change in the bodies which have so far been provided for in the law. We expect you to implement these commitments and the interoperability of registers will actually bring tangible results in the course of cases and assigns. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of all of us is to better care for children who are hosted in structures and to find a suitable family for each of these children. Now, with regard to its amendments, number 386/1 provides for the release of the frequency spectrum for the 5G. I would like to ask you here, Minister, if the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts has delivered an opinion on this. This amendment also abolishes the public service obligation for the President and managing director of the EMEA. Here I note that in addition to the formal qualifications mentioned, the candidate for this position should also have a technical structure that has specialised knowledge and competences for the policy-making of the EMEA and all of this in the context of national communication policy. Here, Minister, an official capacity could be laid down for the Vice-President and the Vice-President. Amendment No 389/2 on two-year pre-school education solves formal bureaucratic issues and we do not disagree. I am going to go to Amendment No 390/3 on the issues of the PPE Group. With this amendment on the subject of EUPM issues, EUPM services and personnel are being moved to the Ministry of Defence. Changes to the Historical Archive of the NRA are being introduced without providing for a clear procedure to be followed from now on. At the same time, KETYAK, the Centre for Technological Support for Development and Innovation is established. Minister, by moving the Electronic Intelligence Directorate to the Ministry of Defence, we are returning to logically in the past decades. The NSA loses, I would say, its special role and becomes a department of domestic affairs alone, a department that could also be part of the police. I would remind you here that since 1986 the NDP has been assigned to civil servants and today it is a crucial part of our return to the army. I should also like to mention that you are bringing major changes to the services of the EDPS with an amendment to an unrelated bill without consultation and, of course, without informing the officials and, of course, without justification. At the same time, there is no provision for the union of workers, which is actually leading to the devastation and dissolution of workers, contrary to the principles and rules laid down in Law 1264/1982, since there are trade union officials moving to the Ministry of Defence. Minister, there must be an explicit exception for the trade unions here. Unless they want to move it themselves. Finally, Amendment No 391/4 concerns the staffing of the National Civil Protection Mechanism. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are twenty-eight posters up to 31-5-2023 and a budget of EUR 3 000 000, as well as a derogation. I should also like to point out here that in the appropriateness report on regulation it is stated that there is no same or similar case in both a country of Europe or an OECD. I do not understand that, Minister. We'd like an answer. Also, why do we need such an original arrangement that does not exist in any other country? Minister, in the midst of the crisis we are experiencing, the staffing of civil protection with posters is not in line with the principles of a modern structured state. You had all the time to bring in a structured arrangement for the agency's organogram. You have not done so and you are continuing with temporary solutions, i.e. 'wrap up', which do not guarantee a long-term operation of the service. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we consider the Change Movement to improve the status of audiovisual producers and also improve the digital services of the public. That is why we are voting 'yes' in principle. We will now listen to you both in terms of the amendments and the questions we have put. In my denunciation, I will give an opinion on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, now has the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. In 2017, the SYRIZA Government voted for Law 4487, in which the fourth chapter entitled ‘Building an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece’. Then we voted against all twenty articles of this chapter, because all those articles were intended to strengthen and stimulate investors in the particular area of art and culture. What, in accordance with the above law of SYRIZA, was the main criteria of mobilisation and financing of an audiovisual project? Mostly its economic characteristics and sizes. In short, an audiovisual work is dealt with and approached only by its economic and commodity side and therefore completely overlooked and ignored the cultural, aesthetic features of this work, that is, all those features that identify a work as an art work. The new bill now brought by the New Democracy Government does nothing but continue on the same line as what SYRIZA started, which both admits. Thus, in all the first twelve relevant articles of the New Democracy bill, the so-called "investment projects" give and take, while extending and increasing tax incentives and tax exemptions, as well as direct aids and subsidies with warm state money for the show-to-hearing monopolies. The New Democracy bill, therefore, with the same logic, goes on to partial adaptations to SYRIZA's relevant law, since the high expectations that were created at the time about the coming of the investors promised by No 4487, have not been verified. You see, the capitalist economy and reality are relentless and the competitiveness that characterizes it has very specific rules here too. The audiovisual monopolies insist on looking for countries to produce films and audiovisual works, which meet two main characteristics: they will in any case have a skilled, but at the same time cheap labour, as well as appropriate technical infrastructure and studios. In our region, however, there are already two such countries - competitors, Romania and Bulgaria, which have these competitive qualifications that the show monopolies demand. So, what is the price for our country to compete with them to attract these investors? In any case, the even lower pay and the worse working conditions for the thousands of workers in the audiovisual sector. If we do not think that according to the prior position of the representative of the Union of Audiovisual Technical Projects, or collective agreements in the area, that is to say, they do not apply structured working rights, nor guaranteed professional rights are recognised for the workers in this area, we all understand what work jungle leads to any similar competition between investors in any sector or sector. Nevertheless, the government with the bill is making itself felt sensitive to the demands of the people in the audiovisual works sector, who claim to understand and allegedly satisfy. Except that this is done entirely selectively, using different, unequal and unequal criteria for the eligibility of the costs of the State financing of a audiovisual project, which is selective and biased state funding, and this in itself also reveals the intentions of government policy in this area. One example is: Compare how the state treats a short film and a television sirial. For the short film state funding requires a minimum expenditure threshold of 60,000 euros. For the television ring, EUR 15 000 is enough as a minimum of costs to be financed by the State. Four times more costs in the short film than a sirial are needed to get a state financial support. And now go on after this to find a new director at least 60,000 euros to turn a movie and to be able to get something behind the state. And yet, all the actors in the field and the associations of cinema as a realistic basis for funding were - and still consider - the EUR 25 000 and reiterated this in the committee yesterday with the institutions. This government, of course, does not only have an effect on what - anyway - an artistic result, which is probably nothing to do with the government that sees only the economic aspect. Government choices mainly reveal government intentions. Firstly, it does not show that the government is not being slaughtered or cared for in the development of the domestic audiovisual sector. All she cares about, as before the SYRIZA government, is attracting major investors. And secondly, by continuing that long tradition of all the previous governments - PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA - the current government likes to donate television channels constantly with new gifts, such as the recent one - let us say - to suspend payment of this year's annual instalment to the state for that infamous acquisition of television licence. As for that notorious 1.5% of its revenues that every television station would have had to pay for the production of films, its course is very characteristic. PASOK, although it originally introduced it, then in fact it reduced half the amount that TV channels had to pay. Then SYRIZA comes in and reduces the financial basis of this 1.5% calculation and instead of taking into account all the revenues of a television channel, only its advertising revenues are taken into account. Nevertheless, despite the patronage facilities of the governments over time, private TV channels only produced some pitticks from this compulsory contribution, otherwise, for the development of the Greek cinema. It was even heard yesterday in committee that, instead of ensuring that this law is implemented, the government, since it is being cut so much for the implementation of the laws, is cooking for the abolition of this provision, which in any case no government has, as we have said, been able to implement in order not to disturb the Canadians. But there's always there. Under Article 3 of the bill, the Government continues to take advantage of private channels at the expense of ERT, since it gives those private channels another advantage, state funding by the EBRD, while at the same time excluding ERT, state ERT, from this funding. Who's excluded? The ERT, which is the only body that normally pays that 1.5% for the production of films. Finally, however short the time limits within which the EMCDDA, i.e. the National Centre for Audiovisual and Audiovisual Media, will have to complete the payment of its debts to beneficiaries, the main problem remains especially for small producers of audiovisual works. In order to pay him the amount of the subsidy, the producer must have completed the investment, which means that many creators do not take the risk of a production and, of course, small producers are mainly unable to meet this obligation to complete the investment and are therefore automatically excluded from any of the EMFF's grants. We believe that these are sufficient reasons for the JRC to vote against the specific articles of the bill. Now, for the second part of the bill, in relation to the digitisation of state functions, I would like to reiterate from the Step that exactly what I told the committee, because the Minister in his reply the other day to the JRC did not understand. I said, therefore, that we need to clarify from the outset that digitisation is an objective technological development and a possibility, for which no serious person can disagree or may be opposed. It makes it easier to digitize, of course, the relationships, the transactions of people with the public, with the State, by limiting the suffering, the costs and the loss of time and by saying that this is the one side and we must say here that the government insists only on this side, namely the positive effect of the state and the public. But there is also the other side, the strengthening of the class character of the state in which we live, through the digitisation of the country. Why is the question central: Improving or not spectacularly the ability of the state mechanism to do its work better, namely to monitor better, to tax the working population more and to save resources at the expense of working people's rights? I do not have to say, of course, that in today's bill all personal data, both labour, economic and family, can, according to the bill, be available to credit institutions, i.e. banks, funds, etc. with the consent - it says the bill - and the citizen, as if we do not know what blackmail is going on around us, or that by e-prescription there is a further reduction in the state pharmaceutical expenditure, which is, of course, loaded on the backs of patients and their families. Let me get a little up to what the Minister said. The Minister said attributes: "Digital services..." - I am reading from the Minutes - "...reduce inequalities for people with motor difficulties, reduce inequalities for the working mother, who cannot leave her child and must stand in a line." What does the Minister say here? That people with motor problems, with disabilities, whose allowances have been slaughtered and their rights to education, work and life, are crushed every day by the policy of cuts in welfare, which his own government continues, that these people with digitalisation live through the reduction of their inequalities. As for the working mother and her child, who can't leave it somewhere to stand on the line of tax, say, truth why this need for this mother, any mother, is not covered by a universal system of free pre-school treatment? What are you saying, Minister? That this working mother who may also be a self-employed, say, and has been kneeled by the carpets and all kinds of taxes the state has put on her, in her shop and her work, that this mother must thank you for having been digitally entangled? In any case, the digitalised state not only does not lose its class character, but it strengthens it even more and therefore not only reduces, as the Minister claims, social inequalities, but rather expand even further. And it is good to remember that technology in the conditions of the capitalist system instead of liberating the worker, rather than improving the position of the people's layers, is unfortunately exacerbating its working conditions, as teleworking has shown, which is spreading and which, of course, also abolishes any concept of stable and specific working time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President - and thank you for the minor tolerance I need - with the amendment on pre-school education. As you know, in the next school year 2020-2021, the compulsory implementation of public pre-school education should have been completed for all children between four and six years. According to the amendment, due to objective difficulties - it says - it will not apply and are excluded from this application - notice which municipalities - the Municipality of Athens, the largest municipality of the country, the Municipality of Zorov, the Municipality of Kalithea, the Municipality of Nea Smyrni and the Municipality of Naples Sicily, also one of the largest municipalities of Thessaloniki's town complex. In fact, the Municipality of Athens asked itself to exclude, as no serious attempt was made either on its side or on the part of the Ministry to find places suitable for the implementation and construction of the school roof. Perhaps he had other jobs with this "great walk" or the great hardship he had for the Athenians. Therefore, the amendment and the Ministry with the amendment states that it is not the fault of delaying the safeguarding of the required rooms for the implementation of a resolution - please - a law. What Ministry? The Ministry of Education, which about a month or two ago in our relative question about pre-school education claimed to have done all the necessary - says - steps to implement this measure. Of course, we must say here that even in the municipalities in which this pre-school treatment is being implemented, it is done in such conditions and under such conditions that the least is really unacceptable, with overnumber of infants, with inappropriate rooms and so on, while nothing has been done to improve all these conditions. Even that regulation passed by SYRIZA on preschool preschools, the CIT, has not gone any further. And how can it go on when the public investment fund for the school roof is specifically allocated every year for three years - the third year is with New Democracy, it started with SYRIZA - reducing by 50 million euros? Instead, to increase it to find or build a school roof to make kindergarten, we have reduced it! In any case, all the governments and SYRIZA and the New Democracy came afterward and took responsibility for implementation on a number of tripartite committees. What we want to say is that it seems that for a very large part of the country's infants, compulsory and free pre-school treatment is referred to the Greek bells and we are talking about very large municipalities, and it turns out how correct the criticism made by our party at the outset in the relevant provision of the SYRIZA law, when it said that you cannot vote for a law to become a pre-school treatment without it being accompanied by that funding and that plan, so that it can be implemented with the appropriate resources and the conditions. Overall and after thanking the President once again, I would like to say that we are voting against the bill and almost all of its articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Delis. And now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas is called in Stepa. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin, Minister, by saying that once again in a bill of your own, there are windows that you intend to use as buyers to make your own toys. Once again in a bill, you are planting at the last minute really important amendments that prove fraud, if you like, which characterizes your government's work. Because that's exactly what's going on. Unfortunately for Greece, as well as being well read, or as well as analyzing the bills, we are only 10. So we do not yet have the arithmetic force to prevent any of your plans. Generally speaking, your philosophy in this bill is that you are interested in regional development and that you are now doing so here in the specific audiovisual measures. I do not know how many of you in the government, I will not talk about the Members of the region of New Democracy, you know - and I doubt that very much - what a region. I would like to remind you here that the Greek Solution is a regional-based party. We are a party from the region and most of us have experienced injustice on equal opportunities and work in our minds. I'll end up somewhere. I would like to tell you, Minister, that on the weekend the Greek Solution again did not sit on its eggs, but grinded the periphery. So we met in Rhodope, in Evros, in a few words in the region, in our locusts this time. Last week we were in Patras, the Peloponnese in general, the Tower, the Kalamata. We were, therefore, close to the people, near our locusts, who forced Erdogan, Ministers, to retreat, as you had to do, to keep our borders and finally enter a class, even temporarily, up there, where the situation was rebet asher! If they were not there, then, the people of the region or our locusts up there to preserve in this particular example as modern heroes the Thermopylae of Greece, would have completed Erdogan's hybrid war in Castani. And for the record, these Greeks -- and I'm going to say it popular, and they're just living on the outside, something I've really lived, Minister, in the last two days. Their complaint is that they are forgotten, that they are away from opportunities - from equal opportunities - and isolated. I'll get an example, and I'll link it to your bill right away. As I said to the committee, you say you will make cholywood studios in Thermi Thessaloniki. I will try to be as simple as possible in order for people to understand what is happening and I will not go into this power of articles, numbers and provisions and we shall all be lost in translation. Your investor, because there's an investor who has a corresponding studio in Bulgaria, like those choliguantines you want to do in Thermi, there in Basilica, is in Bulgaria and these studios operate at a much lower cost. It is the company "Millennium Films", which is your investor, and wants to do "Nu Boyana Hellenic" - Bulgaria's counterpart, therefore, wants to do so here in Thessaloniki - while in Bulgaria, about three and a half hours from Thessaloniki, it already has the state-of-the-art "Nu Films Studios". You need to answer which - and I asked you in committee too - are the insurance packages you have taken to ensure that there, when they become the studios, they will work Greeks, because that is what is important. There is no point in the investor opening up the modern studios here in the Royal Thessalonikis, making his investment and more than half of them working not to be Greek. We told you next time in committee to make a commitment, a condition, so that at least 60% of those who work there are Greeks, because, as you know very well, people in the province are suffering from unemployment. So I tell you to put into the bill the Greek Solution proposal, that is to say that such businesses should have 60% of their staff. We insist on this, and I invite you to take it into account. Of course we say "yes" to the strengthening of Greek producers, as we say "yes" and to projects that will highlight the history and culture of our country, but always with thorough monitoring of the content of the project and with emphasis on cultural criteria. Of course we are vertically opposed to all kinds of unwilling production. You must give tax incentives, Minister, to create more Greek producers than the Greek region for the whole country and why not the whole world. I am now referring to it in committee, as I have said in the past, that we have said 'no' - we have made this incomprehensible in our area now, the audiovisual sector - the Game of Thrones. I have said so to the committee, but I have to say that in plenary too, to hear about it by the Greeks and Greeks. As Greece we said 'no' to 'Game of Thrones' and kicked a golden opportunity both financially and at the level of our country's advertising abroad. Of course, the producers of ‘Game of Thrones’ did not have their cat crying. They agreed with Seville and Seville gained very high financial benefits. The shootings were to be done in Ikaria, we refused and went to Seville, which won an unprecedented international advertising. That's what we did. You tell me, we did it in the past, we won't do it in the future. Yes, sir. I wish you didn't. However, it is good to hear what crimes the governments have done against Greece in the past. We turned our back on the Game of Thrones, on the number one world production brand that exists at the moment, we said 'no' about Ikaria and the others went to Seville. Don't sit down and beg us! Why do you abolish publication in FEK of the relevant decisions? We all know that the 'GENERAL' is not enough. In transparency there should be no discounts. Do not remove the FEK. Now another point to which your bill refers and to which you must pay great attention is this digital state upgrade, as you call it. In hearing what I'm saying, will someone say to me "I don't understand, Mr. Heta, gentlemen of the Greek Solution, do you not want the digital upgrade? What do you want? Shall we go with the documentaries and stand by and wait for 15 hours?" It's good to upgrade digital data, it just shouldn't turn into a sell-out of personal data to banks. And that's very important. We are concerned when we see you enact provisions allowing personal data to be transferred to credit institutions to such an extent that the citizen is trapped. Let's not fool ourselves, here's a simple account you're going to open at the bank and ask for DNA, even blood to give everything, whatever evidence you have. So that's not a citizen's service, it's a raw freckle. Before I go to the amendments, I shall close, Mr President, with something very important. The government's bill contains provisions relating to the procedures for taking up and adopting. This is a huge issue and a very important issue. Clearly, we agree on logic. What does logic say? That we want children to be dehabilitated, which is very important. Who doesn't want all children to have a chance to grow up in a safe family environment? Through here, however, they will be given the opportunity to become contractors or to adopt children, but certainly contractors and even gay couples. As I said in committee, they have the right to do so. You're not blocking the road to it. And we will go to cases where they were voted on, i.e. 'parent 1' and 'parent 2'. This is a huge issue. It's a huge issue, Mr. Janakopoulos. For you at SYRIZA it may be normal for Sakis and Takis to adopt children, but it's not for us. And you will allow us to disagree on that. You ideologically address your audience and we are the Greek citizens. Don't vagina! If you vagina, the office is there to get some relief! However, for us, 'Family 1' and 'Family 2' are something incomprehensible and let us disagree with you. We grew up in a family environment, where there is father and mother. And if you have the courage, gentlemen of the government, to go out and speak openly to the citizens of the country. Are you in favour of or against the assumption of children by homosexual couples? So tell us to listen to the voters of the New Democracy, the Greeks and the Greeks, what your position is. Because for us the institution of the family is sacred, and that's not what we play. And it is obvious that we are not opposed to any provision for speeding up the process. But to God, not that. Also, if we want to look in the face of the issue of adoptions, we cannot look the other way into the huge issue of children's legislative adoptions mainly of third countries. This is a huge issue, the interests are many and they have many tentacles with international implications, which we do not touch. And now we're going a little bit to the amendments you have put in. The two are barbarians. In other words, you cannot bring these two amendments into a bill. You are saying 'The Modernization of the National Intelligence Service'. I remember as now the conversation we had here about the NSA, how a man of the NSA took over, who was a surcurator. We talked about it here, the Opposition said, we talked about it, the whole world said it. A year after you found out, Mr. Ministers? With this amendment you take responsibilities from the NSA and give them to the OHIM. In the end, what knowledge of the commander you appointed in matters of security is not enough and are you now trying to gather the uncoupled? You almost leave the NRA headless with the choice you have made - because that is what you are doing in very difficult and wicked times that our country lives - and we cannot even understand after a year what the reasons really led you to this option are. There was no special reason. A year now, then, Erdogan - to connect it to this way - has a party and instead of us setting up a SPS fight, we make internal changes, as if we were playing football. That's not how it works. We're not playing with these things. You were called by the President of Greek Solution that especially at the NSA, you started not with a goal, but with an autogol from the locker room. You could hear this man, we'd have a lot less trouble in this country. Nor do you, however, hear him on national issues, nor do you hear him on the JHA issue, which is very important you have heard, nor did you hear him on illegal immigration. You also do not hear us either in the proposals on the substantial strengthening of the primary sector or the boycott in Turkish products on the basis of what happened in Agia Sophia. It would be incomprehensible, Mr Ministers, not to make a reference, because it is the first day that plenary is working today and we are here. It's a black day after Erdogan's black day and Erdogan's incredible decision to turn Agia Sophia from church - because for the Greek Solution Agia Sophia is a church, it's not a museum - in mosque. And what do we do about it? We've got three days we're crying, we're asking for help from allies, from friends, from UNESCO, from the UN, to take one's place, take the other one's place. What do we do about it? We therefore say that countermeasures need to be taken. We are not asking for countermeasures from the European Union. I was just seeing that Mr Mitsotakis is asking for and pressing for measures from the European Union. Do we not start a little by taking countermeasures from us before we go to the European Union? I say it because Agia Sophia was the cradle of Orthodoxy and Hellenism. Let's start with us. Let's close the border with Turkey now! Let us all boycott Turkish products now! Let's close the mosques in the Dodecanese - and not just - now! Stop opening the mosque to the Botanic now! Why don't you do this? Convert the supposed house of Kemal Ataturk to Thessaloniki to a monument of Pontian Hellenism now! Countermeasures! Shouldn't we do something? What are we waiting for from the European Union? Listen to something I'll say to hear here. We are calling for measures to be taken by the European Union against Turkey - which is never going to do - on Friday, on this flanking day, Mr. Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy, who Erdogan turns Agia Sophia from a church to a mosque, the European Union with the vote of Greek MEPs, with the exception of Manolis Fragos of Greece, votes and approves a allocation of EUR 500 million, half a billion, support for the European Union in Turkey and Jordan, in order to manage Syrian refugees, etc. So, on Friday, the European Union approved half a billion euros of aid to leave the European Union and go to Turkey to manage Erdogan - do you hear that, Mr President? - the refugees, the refugee. They gave Erdogan financial breath on the day that he makes Agia Sophia mosque! What can we expect from Europeans now if we do not react? Are we serious? And we sit here and endure everything and wait for UNESCO to react? UNESCO? Close the border with the Turks now! It hurts him against man! Close a mosque here, we have them in the "opers" and you open them as if they were branches! Let's get a countermeasure. Did you see that, Mr. Parliamentary? Europe has approved 500 million euros, half a billion euros! That's why we're telling you not to wait for anyone. If we do not react, nothing is going to happen, unfortunately. We call it heart pain. Let us now refer to the 5G amendment. Looks like you've made up your mind. You want to fill our country with antennas that we have not yet heard with certainty from official lips that they are harmful to human health or are not. It is an issue that is still under investigation. Can you guarantee, Minister, you - who are not here - to the Greek people that there will be no problem and that they are not harmful? If you can officially say this here, go out and tell us: 'We, as the Government of the New Democracy, guarantee that the 5G is not harmful to human health'. You know very well that there is global concern about the 5G and thousands of scientists have been placed. I am reading you a quote: "The electromagnetic waves of five millimetres are known to heat the eyes, skin and other human organs. There is greater concern for the most vulnerable groups, such as embryos, children, patients, the elderly and the disabled. It is also expected that the number of bees and birds will be significantly reduced. Lenad Haudel, professor of oncology at the University Hospital of OPEGROP, Sweden." This man is skilled in aggravating factors that cause cancer. And he's one of the thousands. There are many surveys suggesting that radio radiation belongs to the list of possible carcinogenics and, in fact, they have been proposed to be included in the proven carcinogenic. It also says “In parallel, the wireless radiation of the antenna affects the functioning of the immune system, since 93% of the research shows oxidative damage, but at the same time there are modern fibre optic networks that offer higher speeds and keep radiation emissions very low. So you should know something. There is, on the one hand, the issue that is dangerous to health, but there is this global fight of interests. So 5G is a twofold issue that we need to consider and approach. The first is the issue of human health and, secondly, the global battle of the interests that are under way for who will control the fifth generation mobile phone network. Kyriakos Velopoulos has repeatedly stressed that precisely this battle can cause a geopolitical conflict with huge impacts on European companies and governments. In this respect, the President is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Heta. I would like to invite the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulos, to the Stepma for 15 minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, in any case the initiatives that enrich the productive model of the Greek economy are welcome and welcome. We must admit, of course, that this approach, which focuses only on tourism and related activities, is inadequate and reckless, because it leaves our already fragile economy at risk that we cannot limit. Already the example of the Koroni crisis has shown how much even the temporary collapse of the tourism industry can irreparably affect our anemic economy. So we think that there should be an expansion and dispersion of the productive portfolio of our economy. We therefore believe that to this end and to that end the area of audiovisual producers is suitable for such an effort, because this is an area which is in the world with very high boom and growth. It certainly provides competitive incentives, leaves high added value to countries which in this way attract investment and, of course, has a realistic prospect of creating many and very good jobs. In any case, our country has the comparative advantages to have a significant share of the pie and this is not because it has only natural beauty, but also because it has a highly qualified staff with great knowledge and training. It is also a safe European country and we can offer competitive pricing to our services. But we have been delayed several, several decades, in this area. We still have a lot of ground to cover. We should therefore make a more dynamic and more direct outward opening to audiovisual productions. Since the area of television productions and series is a little familiar, I will start with the digital toys sector, as well as these are audiovisual works. It is well known that the global gaming industry is extremely profitable and constantly growing. In fact, the revenues from the digital game are expected in 2023 to reach around $200 billion worldwide. Already the community of gamers and developers is made up of people very sharp, well-trained, ready to invest a very large part of their time and their everyday life and wealth, precisely in this area. Let us also stress that in many universities worldwide there are specific curriculum programmes, which are precisely interconnecting academic research with education, and this is a golden opportunity for us to do so, because in this way we are giving an opportunity for even more growth in public free higher education. Of course, other sectors of audiovisual production also have prospects. It is also worth investing in this area, because we will create new and very good jobs. But we call on the government to reverse the very negative and heavy climate, which it has caused by continuing to devaluate artists, workers in the artistic area, condemning them to a state of work and economic insecurity and tolerance. We call on her, even now, to take measures that retroactively remove this very negative and unpleasant situation, because they are people who have a lot to offer to our culture. One of the problems of the bill, as we have already stressed in committee, is the thresholds for subsidised producers, so-called 'eligible costs'. We must extend the scope of financial aid to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The view that investment and economic aid are only luxurious is extremely problematic, and that is because the cultural product should not be judged on purely economic terms. There are at times too many independent productions, which have very great artistic value, have low budgets and some of them have had commercial success. So we also need a broader mix of financial support policies for audiovisual producers. More subsidies, of course, means that they must be channelled, given more money and therefore tax incentives must be granted, the employer's costs must be subsidized and the rebate must be made more quickly, namely, the reimbursement of the producer's costs. The question of whether there is such an economic surplus in the Greek economy is that there is surely sufficient legislative initiative. As we have all been informed, unanimously, by the bodies involved in the debate in committee, unfortunately for thirty years now no channels have been available to pay 1.5% to the public, which was once on the table, and SYRIZA unfortunately did so incorrectly on annual advertising revenues. We are talking about channels which, for 30 years, have not even paid for the use of the public frequency, and which do not pay this 1.5% at all without any penalty, without any penalty. When a relevant law came out that punished the non-proofing of tax information, even he was withdrawn. It was, of course, the least that could be imposed as a penalty, when there are already the means of forced enforcement provided for by the civil procedure and when a huge inequality arises when the ordinary taxpayer, the free trader, is known that if he does not pay his debts, if he does not pay his fixed obligations, for example, PPC's account, then he knows that he will suffer the consequences and sanctions and the tax authority and justice. The big question is why so long the state has refused to collect all this money. The answer was given by the institutions: 'Only for the governments concerned to have them well with the canals'. So we ask: 'Is it possible for the channels to owe to the public and you to give them with the pheasant list of Pecha 20 million for messages that can be broadcast for free?' So we urge you to collect for so many years due and extend the turnover of the debtors, even on NETFLIX and AMAZON PRIME, because we are talking about multinational companies, which generate huge profits from their activities in Greece. So since we cannot tax them because they are given the opportunity to have their seat in tax havens, at least to legislate in such a way that we collect the minimums and strengthen the industry even more. As to the opening of the municipality's digital services, we clearly support the state's digital transformation. But we are concerned about two things: the first is the ownership status of software, because we believe that software should belong to the public and that the public in turn should turn to free open source applications. Secondly, we are concerned about the risks in terms of personal data and security gaps, not only from malicious attacks, but also from wrong political choices, such as the leakage of bank debtors' data in the predatory fund. With regard to the provisions of Articles 23 and 24, we repeat that these provisions require greater study, more consultation. This is a particularly sensitive and fragile issue concerning childbirth and assumption. We therefore call on you even now to withdraw these provisions and to see them under more mature conditions. I come to the amendments, which are completely irrelevant to the bill. As far as compulsory pre-school education is concerned, which SYRIZA was raped to legislate, we would like to point out that, in order to make pre-school education compulsory, the state has taken care of the universal and equal access for all to this education at nurseries with appropriate infrastructures. Unfortunately, the positions of daycare stations are not sufficient to make the supply equivalent to demand. We invite you to have a simple conversation with your parents about how big a problem they have to find every time for their children. That is why there are lots, subsidies through the NSRP. But that's not enough. The worst part is that the state does not only make it compulsory, but also provides for the penalty not to register in the first grade if the child has not attended a kindergarten. It is not, therefore, that they should not be watching kindergarten, but before making compulsory such a system, the state should respond to its obligation, with positive measures to ensure universal access for all to public pre-school education and not leave any doubts that this is how you are subsidising, subsidizing, promoting private education. On the amendment to the President of the EMEA: here we have two issues. One is the excellent knowledge of a foreign language. The fact is that English is a long-standing world language, which is a bit absurd in practice to equate with French and German. It goes without saying that the President of the EMEA should have an excellent knowledge of English and certainly a very good knowledge of another language. He is a president of a very important body, which will have constant international cooperation and presence. It must therefore speak at least two languages, especially since most civil servants have to speak at least two languages perfectly or very well. With regard to the experience of the President of the EMEA on matters relating to the mandate and purpose of the EMEA, we consider that this is a very general provision. It provides for experience in the criticism of audiovisual arts until engaging in scientific and tax studies. So we ask what the main elements you want from the President are, what he will deal with most, what the exact description of his job is and what his record is, his precise duties. We think that the wording should be clearer here, not to leave the size of the experience undetermined. You should therefore set a criterion above, even time, as you do for administrative skills. Because even the renowned prestige you invoke is an extremely subjective and vague term. On the amendment with order number 390/3 in Article 2(9), Article 20(2): this is the specific regulation on the public procurement of the NRA, which you say will no longer be published in the FEK, against what is currently in force. Then you say that it will lay down award procedures, competent bodies, committees, content, procurement procedures, legal protection, sanctions and in particular matters. So we ask why all this should be classified, what their contents will be and should be classified. Especially in terms of the award procedure, we know that this is a burden on public money, on the state budget, and therefore for reasons of transparency, accountability and good administration it is even more imperative to publish it in the FEK. It is true that we are not talking about sensitive data and information that really protects national security, but about issues such as the definition of an instrument, the legal protection, sanctions, procurement procedures, why should they be surrounded in full secrecy? On the contrary, they should be surrounded by the types of publicity. Finally, we have twenty-eight new posters on the amendment. Really, when will this army of transmigrants finally stop? Since their term of office is a fixed term, and in fact is due to expire on 31 May 2023 what kind of posters will they be? They are fixed-term workers, so they should be transparently proclaimed fixed-term private contracts, with a file mobilisation and with the fully transparent and guaranteeing procedure of the AACC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. And now I will tell you the procedure to follow from now on until the adoption of the draft law. Immediately now the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis. Then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Chardalias, will be placed for the amendment he has tabled together with Mr. Staikoras and Mr. Theodorikos, with a general number of 391 and a special number 4. I will then give the floor, because it is chairing a committee of Parliament, Mrs Makre and, from there on, the list of colleagues will be followed, while the parliamentary representatives after these three names will be able to speak whenever they so wish. I have already been asked to speak by the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardo. Of course, I am making it clear that the reason is given not in the order requested by the parliamentary representatives, but in the order of force of the parliamentary parties. From there on we'll find the rest of it in the process. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill on substance is the reflection of a gap. A gap with regard to audiovisual services, a gap with regard to the digital services and the performance of our country in the field of e-government. And this gap can be seen either as a threat or as an opportunity. The threat is that we can't get over it. The threat is that, for example, we are before the gates of the fourth industrial revolution in digital, the country cannot make the required leap and find itself back when the whole world around us is changing at increasing speeds. The audiovisual divide is self-evident. It is the reason why we still remember film productions that have been made at specific parts of our country, in Kefalonia or in other Aegean islands, because they are few and they are something that we must also overcome. I'm starting with an admission before I get into the audiovisual part. You mentioned, Mr Katsi, a rule of engineers: 'When something works, do not ruin it'. That's right. That's the rule. There is, however, another person Einstein had said: "Life is like a bike. If you stop the pedal, you fall." And that is precisely why we must constantly change, even to keep our performance stable. Because around us the framework is changing and we should be able to constantly improve our work either new services or older services, because the state is a structure. Its structures are built upon each other. In this context, too, we have recognised the EMEA as a good initiative, which we wish to improve. That is what we do, starting with audiovisual, with this draft law. The big change is the increase of the cash rebate. It is the increase from 35% to 40% of the subsidy. We have adapted the minimum limits according to the facts of reality, especially the reality that has been established in the area of audiovisual producers after the coronary. There is also such a kind of reopening of the audiovisual industry in our country and we must therefore give even greater impetus. What, then, are we changing beyond 40% to the thresholds, to the minimum of the eligible expenditure? We're cutting down the limits of subjection. For example, the EUR 60,000 threshold now for documentaries and short films of EUR 100,000 that were before, the EUR 25,000 threshold per episode of fiction series and EUR 20,000 for documentaries or animated plan. These 25 000 euros become 15,000 euros if there is a minimum number of incidents. We are doing this because we want to support large productions. If there is a minimum of seventy incidents, even if the cost of the incident is small, we consider that economies of scale are being created and do not necessarily want to separate production with such criteria. We believe that lower-cost production can also be carried out - because, after all, costs are falling - to be extroverts, which is here and on demand. Why, in fact, is it really what this is about? It's double. Its first part is to be able to bring more big foreign productions into our country. The second part is that we want to export Greek productions on large platforms abroad or on large networks abroad. He also referred to the committee. Today, on the platform of 'NETFLIX', for example, you can see Turkish productions, you can see Danish productions, you cannot see Greek productions, and that is something we need to help to change, because the multiplier of these producers in relation to the tourist product is huge. Let us think only of what productions have done in our country for the places they have been turned, for the islands in which they have been turned. For example, "The mandolin of Captain Corelli", which I remember featured, played a great role in the tourist development of Kefalonia. One can make too many such productions in our country. It is one, if you like, to a degree untapped, to which we must give even greater impetus. So the philosophy of regulation, apart from changing the limits - I mentioned some specific - but others - has to do with simplifying the process of motivating the audiovisual sector. We're lowering deadlines. The new deadlines are better suited to the needs of producers in order to be able to implement their programming in an uninterrupted manner. We are abolishing the obligation to publish decisions in the Official Journal of the Government, a completely unnecessary procedure, as long as there is DENMARKS. We are establishing the concept of temporary confirmation so that beneficiaries of the aid can move more rapidly in terms of co-financing by private operators. This is best practice. We are abolishing the double control procedure by integrating the first stage of evaluation into the audit process, which was observed to have caused several delays in the control and certification of the completion of expenditure. We want to speed up the situation. And we incorporate in the process of evaluating investment projects all the stakeholders, namely not only EKOME but also the Greek Film Centre and representatives of other Ministries with experience in the field of audiovisual media. We believe that this intervention will be decisive so that our country can participate in this new map of the re-launching of audiovisual producers at the end of the current health crisis. I am going to the end of the bill after the audiovisual services: digital services. Digital services have recently been embraced by our fellow citizens. One can see it in the statistics on gov.gr for example. We have five and a half million gov.gr visits in just three months, about two million two thousand intangible recipes, over half a million of our fellow citizens enrolled in the system of intangible prescribing, over 100 thousand survey and registry certificates issued in this new way. Approximately eight to nine thousand such certificates are issued daily. It is enough to think that each of these publications is a visit that has not taken place. And one of the analyses that we wanted to do was to add these certificates, except for the recipes, and to think about how many visits our fellow citizens have at this time saved from the various public services. Over eight hundred thousand goose visits. They'd happen in a guise. Because it's still half a million cumulatively responsible statements, two hundred thousand authorizations. The numbers are large and reflect how much the world is thirsty to keep it from suffering. Here I would like to add something in relation to the JRC representative's suggestion to something that I think you are right. You say 'will you go back to the world and say thank you for these services you do?' No, no government that respects itself cannot turn back to the parents of children who make reasoning and treatment and tell them "Tell us good that we have changed a process that has been afflicting you for years". 'I'm sorry' we have to say. We must apologise for all these hours, all these years, all the governments, for all this suffering that all these parents have suffered, especially parents whose children, for example, are rationalizing and treating, in some cases more severe than others. And this apology, we have to say it out loud. It's the apology of the loose end. And it is the least we can do, to use this type of simple digital technologies, so that we can improve the daily lives of the citizens. It's the big deal. There is a demand for infrastructure and a request for services. If you want, the great philosophical change taking place in the country's digital governance today is that we are passing through the services infrastructure, from infrastructure to products, because the systems were there. The system of intangible prescribing is based on the system of electronic prescribing that exists for years. The cost of expanding it to intact was minimal, but it should have been done for too long and, respectively, this EEA service is based on the existing systems of the EEA. We're expanding them so we can help our fellow citizens. And we must be able to get more and more of these types of digital products, because each one of them involves thousands of tails that are not going to take place. And I think that this type of change, because it's not colorless, we can all hug them together. For the services provided here, I have referred to the issues of the EEA, but in addition to compensation for children who have reason and treatment, many other services are also provided. The Secretary-General, Mr Georgadas, will mention the subject of the Live JEPs. Very soon I will say that this is an obvious service. We are all talking to a large extent about teleconferences, especially during the Lockdown era, especially for forty-two days. Now everything that has the first synthetic "tele" gets more into our lives. It is obvious that some things cannot be digitised directly because they do not have systems behind them. If anyone sees the movement in the JEPs during the weeks before the closure, we had about twenty thousand visits a day. The twelve thousand visits were for genuine signature services: authorising, responsible statement. They've been voted on. Approximately, I'd tell you, a thousand or more, about two thousand, if I remember correctly, it was the reason you were going to the CPI to get the paperwork. Modified. But there are other systems behind them which are not digital. If you wish, that is why the exercise we are trying to do with regard to pensions is very difficult. Because anyone who has been through the Ministry of Labour knows that there are old funds that have digital systems behind them and there are funds that have not been and must be put together. Accordingly, there are also systems and products and certificates that JEPs cannot deliver in a modern way at that time. So that's where we thought differently. We said to save using digital technology, citizen's visit to the JEP, to be able to show his identity in terms that will ensure privacy and say "It's me, you can send this certificate to me". How? We had predicted with Mr Georganta together, at the time of Lockdown, that the JEP could send through the post office some papers and have the identity card at that time. One alternative is what we now form, the citizens' locker, is that someone can send you in one of your other public service desks a document you ask for, as long as we still need the documents. Because the documents reflect data. At the end of the day, when this is over, public services should exchange direct data between themselves with the citizens' agreement, instead of even reproducing documents, but we are taking the first step and it is a step that is beneficial. From there on there are other, of course, digital services. The Undersecretary, Mr. Zarifopoulou, will speak about the platform for higher education diplomas and how we now want anyone to be able to obtain his degree digitally, as is already done by some universities. Because one may be afflicted by being in another city. We are strengthening the structure of the Ministry of Digital Governance. I would like to say here that this is something that we are asking for vertically, because all these services that we started with five hundred ones, which already existed from all the previous governments, which we have included in the gov.gr and we are now in five hundred seventy-five. These new services, some have made them. And they are either small companies or large companies or persons employed on a permanent basis in the public sector. In order to develop these services you do not only need computers, you need many specialties, from legal and public officials who are aware of the procedures in depth so that they can be captured and simplified. The needs are many and because the centre of gravity falls in digital, because it is a horizontal area that, although it is a ministry but it is all about the other ministries, we need more in fact. We are asking for the least possible, precisely because we are respectful of all those who have been helping us all this time, all the members of the EDPS, the General Secretariat of Information Systems, other research centres that in recent months have literally risen up to these services. So we need greater help and greater assistance so that we can finally catch the thousands of services at the end of the year and at the end of the four-year period we have almost digitised the entire public sector, that, in any case, it can be digitised, because even in countries that are digitally more advanced than ours, such as Estonia, for example, they have not all been digitised there. Even there marriage, divorce and property purchase take place physically. Some things will always continue to be done physically in our country, but what can be digitised and saved by people from their natural presence in the guises, let's do it. It's a chance. Other services concern the National Civil Communications Register. Today there's no codified mechanism for the state to contact you, a record with your consent. We're creating it, we're setting it up. And, of course, there is the issue raised by the 5G amendment tabled to the committee last week. There I would say that I am opposed to any criticism of the risk. The Greek Atomic Energy Commission - we often say, we will not get tired of it - controls two thousand six hundred antennas a year. The country has fourteen thousand five hundred antennas in the locations and out of the two thousand six hundred antennas it controls, only four last year was above the radiation limit. And I add that our country's radiation limits are not international, they are lower. We have legislated to move to 70% and sometimes 60% of the international limit, plus that the 5G frequencies are already largely used. I mean, 700 is the digital dividend of channels that will be empty next year. The 3,500 GHz, which is the other great frequency - it is four in total - relates to the amendment we tabled to the committee and that is agricultural law. With this amendment we call for the transfer of existing rural networks to another frequency so that it can be empty in time, so that it can be included in the tender for ETF, before the year ends, with the aim of having 5G networks in our country in 2021. I move on with the amendment by the National Intelligence Agency. Chapter Modernisation of the National Information Service and other provisions. First, with Article 1, related structures are transferred not to the NSA, from the NCA to the OHIM. It is important to carry related structures where they exist. To mention an example I can comment on when we took over the administration of the Ministry, there were two G- Clouds. There was an infrastructure G - Cloud in the "Information Society S.A." and another in the General Secretariat of Information Systems. We were both standing in the field of the General Secretariat of Information Systems and when we made the first visit, the officials responsible said to us, "until now it is the CIP, from now on it is the General Secretariat of Information Systems". The absolute irrationality. Where structures are relevant. The structures must be merged. This is the rule for proper operation. The best good practice is e-information Directorates. In countries such as the United States, or in countries such as the United Kingdom, they are not within the information services. This is therefore something that is in the direction of modernisation, as is the aim of modernising the establishment of a Centre for Technological Support, Development and Innovation and the establishment of an appropriate special account. Why? If you go to universities abroad, you will find that there are information services programmes related to similar university research programmes or research centres. For example, in cryptography or many other examples. And it is important that information services can develop outwards. So this new structure is also being set up in this context. And, of course, the procurement procedure is being modernised at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying this: At the same time that you are calling to vote in favour of this draft law, there is already another draft law, the Code of Digital Governance, which will in turn come to Parliament shortly. Our legislative and regulatory activity is dense, precisely because there is too much to be done in a very short time because there is a gap, there is a gap and this gap needs to be covered. Some of the services are included in this draft law, some will come with the broader legislative initiative of the code. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this draft law, both as an individual text and as a part of our overall policy on digital transformation of the country. For us digital transformation is a holistic approach that strengthens citizens and especially helps the weakest. It creates opportunities for everyone, and ultimately not for tomorrow but for today. Digital progress enough was something that we could see happening elsewhere. Greece has all the potential to take the lead in developments and Greece will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u22	And we thank the Minister. Let me make it clear that, obviously, the Undersecretaries of the Ministry of Digital Governance can ask whenever they want to speak, as well as the ministers who are coming, to put themselves on their own amendments. And now, as I said before, I give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection and Crisis Management, Mr. Nikos Chardalia. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment I think it is clear - obviously intended - to prepare the National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, established by Law 4662 this year so that its planned structures can be completed. It concerns specific scientific expertise specialities, in specific sections and addresses, all linked to the development of the mechanism and in direct and exclusive connection with the country's armour, both locally and at regional and, above all, at national level. As you would have seen, both scientific staff and the process of derogating from transfers is a specific period of application. It does not concern permanent choices and aims at speeding up the procedures for the creation of new civil protection structures, so that within the next three years, the country will be able to acquire holistic and, above all, universal crisis management and risk management capabilities. I think that developments - a simple review of what has been happening in recent months - show - that the common perception - that the issues of civil protection are a priority and every day we are called on as a Service, as a State Secretary, to address the data that have arisen from the management of the pandemic and all the other risks associated with fires, floods, earthquakes, anything we have faced - even in theories of the last year. Every euro spent on civil protection, every instrument guaranteed for civil protection, every tool used for civil protection, I think we all agree that it is another important step for the protection of human life, the protection of human property, the natural environment of our country, and that is what we are proposing today alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u24	Mr Domna Michailidou, State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, has the floor to put him on his own proposed amendment. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, with the amendment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the government's aim is to strengthen child protection and the institution of the family. Our priority is to promote the rights of all children and ensure the maximum degree of well-being of their children and families. It is undeniable and undeniable that the society that protects and supplys children with all the necessary and necessary resources at material and moral level, reflects a high degree of civilisation and responsibility, since children are the most sensitive, but the most hopeful group of the population. This policy of the government embraces and implements the principles of child protection, as set out and specified in the United Nations Convention on the Protection of the Child, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the European pillar on Social Rights, and in particular its third theme directly affecting children and the recommendation, investing in children, breaking the cycle of minority rights, and the initiative of the European Social Fund. Our policy therefore receives childcare and focuses entirely on the preservation of the rights of the child, until the most modern form of social investment. In this way, moreover, another terrible priority is served by our Government, the reversal of the demographic problem we have. This policy is being triggered by steady and careful steps, which we have carried out for a year in the budgetary capacity of our Government. I am referring to the introduction of an additional EUR 1,000 tax for each child. I am referring, of course, to the cessation, if you like, of this absurd logic that cars with more than two thousand cubic cubic cars in multiple families are considered to be a luxurious presumption. But we don't just live here. With the provision currently being discussed at the National Representation, we are taking a step forward. We continue to conduct our policy, as has already been the subject of the election commitments by the Prime Minister himself with which we won the Greek people's vote. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I want you to give me two more minutes, Mr President, because it is important. The implementation of the commitment from the first year to the enlargement of the beneficiaries of nurseries is our policy. This has three main gains: The first is the short-term enhancement of the skills of children from young age. Secondly, it is about strengthening the country's human resources, as all the studies that show internationally are that the younger a child is involved in organised forms of child protection and skills, the better the performance of the country's human resources in the long term. Thirdly, it has to do with the support of a woman, with the support of a woman in the labour market, who, if she decides and wants it, can leave her child with the support of the state in some organized structure of child protection and claim responsibility on the labour market. So we come and set up for the first time a parallel programme, a 30 million-euro programme with funds exclusively from the Ministry of Labour, which - what is it doing? - corrects an injustice of many years, unfortunately decades. What he does, is that he increases the income criteria for joining the programme horizontally by 3,000 euros, according to the size of the family, but also - and this is very important and I imagine that we have the support of all of you - he is in this programme for women working in the public sector. Women who work in the public sector and often low wages, women under fixed-term private contracts, who had a low wage until they could not join that scheme. So we come, we support the child, we support the Greek family, we support the woman. And we are changing an injustice of decades now, including women's civil servants on equal terms. We are reversing the demographic trend and fulfilling our election promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u26	In order to release the two Ministers, Mr Hardalia and Mrs Michailidou, would any of the rapporteurs or special speakers want to ask for some clarification? I'm stressing it. Your position has been made and it can be done again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u27	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u28	Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Hardalia, you know, I believe that this amendment which is currently introduced to the bill is offensive to this House, is offensive to colleagues. It is insulting because you come with this amendment, that you set thirty-eight post-mortem officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u30	Twenty-eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u31	Twenty-eight. You know, two were and five were, your logic horizontally across all ministries is the post-mortem employees. When you've been blaming us for the past time that we've only been working with posters, you've literally doubled them. I would really like to ask you this: All this time of the pandemic, Minister, how many are the officials in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection with whom you managed the pandemic? Why do you come in a way to say he didn't have any employees? What Secretary-General do you head all this time for the management of the pandemic? Secondly, if you are so genuinely interested in the environment and all these issues of human life, can you answer me, why did the forestry protection programme not come back or get no extension? Also, why haven't you taken off the seats of seasonal fire extinguishers this year for the first time? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Where have you seen it? In what other European country has the recruitment of staff emerged in a normal manner, with the same criteria as twenty-eight poster, so that you can serve a service according to your own measures and weights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr Janakopoulos has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor, but not your place. He's right now excluded from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President, I will only need one minute. I would like to say to Mr Chardalia, who is tabling an amendment today which is scandalous. He's scandalous at all! I don't know who advised you, Mr. Hardalia, to make this move, which actually overturns all the administrative rules on recruitment of staff that is part of the official hierarchy. Your amendment is absolutely contrary to all the constitutional requirements, because post-mortem officials can, of course, manage the offices of Ministers, but they cannot form part of the public service hierarchy. In other words, apart from the fact that it is obviously a routine regulation, it is in breach of all the rules governing public administration. Have you understood that? Why are you taking post-call staff to get them into the public service hierarchy and - what to do with them? - incorporate them into addresses and parts of your general secretariat. These are unprecedented things. These are unprecedented things! What the government and Mr Hardalis must do at the moment is to immediately withdraw this amendment, to follow the constitutional and administrative rules laid down for the recruitment of civil servants, i.e. pass through the AACC procedure. You cannot, Minister, choose without specific procedures and criteria, who will join the public service hierarchy. Do you understand that? You want to turn the state into a spoil and turn it into a spoil for a year. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection is not your feud. It's not yours. You cannot choose according to your will, who will command the public service hierarchy. Which country is this happening in the world? I'll make one final comment. At the moment, New Democracy, based on data from last week - and I do not know if you are aware of this, Mr Hardalia, and the other ministers of the government - has broken record of the recruitment of posted officials. I want to remind you that in the period 2017-2018, when we reduced the number of posted officials and their remuneration, you made such political noise and communication noise to convince, supposedly, that SYRIZA wants to create a party army, which should, if anything, seek an apology. Because at the moment you have broken the shorts, firstly, in number of posted officials and, secondly, in recruitment and remuneration criteria. Mr President, you must inform us and when Mr Gerapitris will come to talk about the other scandalous amendment that has been tabled and which relates to the conversion of the EMS into a CFP, namely an internal monitoring structure for the internal enemy. The inner enemy that Mr Chrysochoidis built with his bill last week. But I'll talk to you later. We need to be informed of when Mr Gerapetritis, the measure of good legislation, will come and talk to us about this amendment and explain what exactly he is seeking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u34	Finish, Mr. Janakopoulos. You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u35	You must apologize. You have reached the point to change the hiring conditions of the SPS commander, to abolish degrees, and a series of others. We're talking about extreme institutional degeneration. You put us in a dark period for the institutions and for the public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u36	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has called for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have all followed the debate that has taken place here, and we all understand what is happening. Scandalous are your thoughts, Mr. Janakopoulos, and your colleagues' thoughts at SYRIZA. There is no scandalous amendment that comes here. On the contrary, it is an amendment - I am starting with the second one, not the one you have risen to speak - extremely carefully. It has all these elements that I understand from your tone, you do not want to show, and you come and remake empty expressions of content that are not appropriate to the Civic Repression of the country. The Minister referred to this amendment in detail. I do not know and I do not think there is any need for another minister to come in this Chamber to support this second amendment, but we have all the time to talk about it, you simply had other jobs and you were not in the Chamber when the government was placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u38	Is Mr. Gerapitris afraid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u39	Afraid of you? Fear what? As far as the second one is concerned, you have again come and said two words, but you have not entered the substance of the case and you have been falsely put. You come and say that the amendment to civil protection comes to replace the public service hierarchy. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u40	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u41	Do you not read and hear the Minister telling you that this position is not permanent, but that it is about a certain period of time until 31-5-2023? Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u42	Where do these employees join?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u43	They fall within the power of a service, which in recent months makes us proud, creates a different sense for the country abroad, giving Greek citizens a sense of security, which, when you were ruling, throughout Attica, with the disruption of people, with this treatment you had, you had the exact opposite effect, and the chief of the political service comes, who, if anything else, has given samples of writing, not of hollow words, but tangible samples of writing, and during the summer of last year, with the treatment of fires, and during the horn by dealing with this populace, which came and stood in this way and says the very simple, which is also the position of the Government and Prime Minister, that civil protection for us, namely, the Government and the New Democracy, but also the great majority of the Greek people, is a national priority and is absolutely essential. That is why, in specific positions and in specific directions for experiences and departments, as the Minister said before, if you would allow him to listen to him, and at a specific time of application, he comes to fill some gaps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u44	Then the gaps will disappear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u45	Don't interrupt, Mr. Katsy, you've heard as much as you wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u46	So what do you want? Should we leave civil protection out? Don't you hear the minister in charge who comes here and explains exactly the needs? Get a little into the real dialogue at last. Take care of the real problems and stop turning around about yourself with expressions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u47	Are your ruffles our problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u48	If you have any rushphetti specific to tell us by name and surname. Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u49	Have we done such a disgrace?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u50	Don't interrupt! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u51	Do you know who's coming in and talking about ruffles? The logic you are expressing, and that is what we tell you to do at the moment with an experience and a sense of responsibility, is precisely because you think so. You guys think that because the Minister comes and asks for a reinforcement of civil protection, you imagine you'll put Karanika. But our government doesn't put any carniques on it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u52	In what process? Where's S.H.I.E.L.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u53	Don't interrupt! Mr Giannoulis, you are speakers, you will speak and you will tell them. And Mr. Janakopoulos said and he'll say again. Go on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u54	To the posters, did you ever have an AAP? Have you ever had an ASA to the posters? I'm closing, saying you're mocking people, but you're mostly making fun of yourselves if you think anyone's listening. Listen to the government's serious and responsible responses and come, somehow, studying, at some point, to have a real dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Chardalia, you have the floor to close this circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, you will allow me, with due respect for the complaints and reports by the representatives of the Officerial Representation, not to enter the controversy process, and I am opposed to all these comments on scandals, on unprecedented procedures. Unprecedented was everything that happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u57	Hey, she's unprecedented, what to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u58	I'm telling you with great respect. Listen to me. I've listened very carefully, and I've been following you to hell, and the announcements you're making. You are wrong for all of us - and it is not about an ideological sign - but you are wrong for all those who have been struggling for months now, at night, so that the country can cope. And what we are trying to do is nothing more and nothing less than finally taking the qualitative step forward on the issues of civil protection, on issues relating to the security of citizens, on the security of the country. We are not seeking armies to make any of this. What do we want to do? We have a national mechanism. This national mechanism was adopted on 4 February, in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u59	Where's S.H.I.E.L.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u60	Don't interrupt me. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Janakopoulos, you haven't interrupted. Let the other person express his opinion and when you take the floor as a parliamentary representative you say it. Let us finish this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u62	Obviously, all the staffing of the national mechanism will be carried out with permanent staff. Procedures for permanent staff, which have already begun with the necessary change in the organization which has been passed by Parliament, together with the necessary appropriations, will proceed properly. Can we wait a year and a half and a half that all these procedures are doing and leave the country naked? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you know what? I want to say something from the heart. What are those twenty-eight? They're twenty-eight scientific executives. We'll take the best from the market to make something, which is not about the constitutional requirements of the public service hierarchy, but about the supreme principles of the Constitution, human life, human property and the natural environment. Do we agree that this is above and beyond anything else? Let's agree on this and work together on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u63	Shame on you! I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u64	You've chosen them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u65	Don't interrupt me! No one I've chosen. And to prove to you something, to prove to you that you're plundering? So listen. I haven't chosen anyone. And prove it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u66	And don't offend civil servants!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Katsi, and Mr. Janakopoulos, is this a procedure? Please warmly, I beg your pardon very much, but ask for the floor and for the floor to be interrupted. Here, in this Chamber where there is no democracy, others agree, others disagree, ideas are expressed, positions have been expressed. From there on, you must respect the word of the other. You didn't respect him. You didn't respect this whole process. There was no time for no interruption. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u68	I would therefore like to prove to you, from this step forward, that you are approaching these issues completely wrongly. Personally I am entitled as State Secretary for eight posters. Do you know how many I have? One. Because I'm not concerned with the issue of retired people. The twenty-eight posters concern the new structures relating to the national mechanism, i.e. ten posts for the management of technical projects. What will these people do? Do you not know that the assessment of the risk committee has been passed here, which should, by way of derogation, proceed with all major flooding projects and all the issues relating to civil protection? By way of derogation, within 90 days of the law, the technical service of civil protection may proceed to the immediate authorisation. Should this mechanism not be prepared, should projects be carried out throughout Greece? Do all these projects have to stay two and three years on the bells so that we can have a new Mandra, have new problems? Let's go a little bit further. What else does he say? We call 'two positions for international relations'. Do you agree or disagree that in the European mechanism, our country is the time to take the qualitative step forward? We have excellent cooperation with “rescEU” and the country, for the first time, participates in the standing committees, cooperates with Mr. Androullakis, who is the head of the European Parliament for the “rescEU” part, and we all try to ensure means and capabilities for our country. So I would like to inform you that yesterday, for five different proposals that we tabled to the European Commission, concerning modules, the MEIPs, the hikers and the EAW, for the first time in the country, the Firefighting, it has provided funding for 1.6 million. Don't you want us to participate everywhere in all the forums? Should we not prepare a mechanism that has no precedent, but should we at last do things? Let me move on. Four positions on the administrative and scientific support of the national coordination centre. Do you think that all we do should not be based on scientific criteria? Shouldn't we take the best meteorologists, analysts, psychologists? Unless you think that all this procedure that we have been following every day, for which we have spent time and means and mood, is a simple process, which some people simply agree to, so that things can go ahead. It's wrong. We are trying in the most scientific way to ensure clear structures. Let's go down for the IT consultants a little bit later. Do you know what the situation in communications relating to civil protection is? Do you know her? Do you know her? It is a pity for the country to have no communications. It's a pity that the Oinophile Fire Service can't hear the Lamia Fire Service. Should we not, for all this, become a mechanism throughout Greece, which at last we can make serious crisis management and deal with disasters? Until when will we risk, until when will we be in luck? You said something, which I honestly tell you I fell off the clouds. What seasonals? You're talking about seasonals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u69	I told you about seasonals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Katsy said something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u71	I said, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u72	Are you talking about seasonals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u73	Complaints have been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u74	You don't read the complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u75	Don't I read the complaints?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u76	I'm telling you with great appreciation and respect for your face. So here's what the reality is. Last year the seasons were hired in August in the tiles. This year, today we are talking about, there they are trained and caught in a yard, because all this process, mediated by the coronary pandemic, we worked hard so that we could have all the seasonals. All seasonals are in the tiles. Be careful, eighty new steps across the country, middle of the pandemic, without any arrhythmias, without any pathogens from the past. How did that happen? Are you coming to tell me about the seasonals? So, we're two months ago, in the middle of a crisis, and you're repenting to us for what? Because, he says, you've read some complaints. Trade union complaints do. You know what, though? We have come here and all the main issues are solved. We solved the issue of the payroll, the scoreboard, and you see there's a peace in both the firefighting and all the other security bodies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm done because I don't want to misuse your time. Do you think that a modern structure should not have a data analyst, should not have psychologists, should not have crisis management experts? The post-mortem what they will do is prepare through their science the permanent structures that will exist and at the end of the three-year period we will provide a structure with thirteen regional centres, with seventy-two local centres, with coordinators everywhere, with experience, with projects, especially and in general, because this requires the sense of duty and responsibility we have. And in this effort, no one is spared. In this effort, we all have to work together, put aside anything that separates us and work, because the country has to be safe. Citizens must feel and be safe. We should leave behind everything that hurt us and move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u78	No, Mr. Katsi, you can't take the floor. Can I tell you why? Because if you want anything further, you can also do parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u79	We're in a legacy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u80	The other issue you raised, for firefighters, is a matter of parliamentary control. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u82	Mr Janakopoulou, despite the fact that I judge, because I live in the Chamber, that some things have been asked, that the answers that we may not agree have been given, but because you are a parliamentary representative, you will take the floor, so that it is not considered that I am not giving you the floor. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, for a minute I will take the floor. I will not deal with this House. Look, Mr. Chardalias answered other things. It considered that the criticism relates to the advisability of recruitment for specific posts in the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. It's not about that. Listen, Mr. Chardalia. I don't know, but you have to understand that. The General Secretariat of Civil Protection and Ministries is not your company, so that you can choose the staff outside the constitutional and administrative procedures. What you do and it seems you do not understand is this: Are you taking posted officials, without an ADP procedure, which can be done to cover up in a very short time, to do what? To get them into the public service hierarchy. Why are you swinging your head? You read it yourself. You say: Two positions for the Directorate-General for International Relations of the Directorate-General for Coordination, three positions for the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs. It is unprecedented to take posted employees, without an ASP procedure, and to incorporate them into address, directorates-general and divisions. What don't you understand from that? You can't do it. It's a direct violation of the Constitution. You're not running your company, commanding the Ministry, Mr. Hardalia. And the Ministry, when we command it, is governed by specific rules laid down in the law and the constitution of the country. What can we do now? You don't like it? You're proposing to change the constitution. It is, in fact, embarrassing that you chose to use the value of human life to justify your rumours, Mr. Chardalia. It's a disgrace and I expect you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u84	Mr Minister, you have the floor, and here we will close this cycle for the amendment you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u85	I would not take the floor but, Mr Janakopoulos, with great respect and respect for Parliament and for all Parliamentary representatives, reports on human life at least to me, as well as on issues of shame, I am simply returning them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u86	You did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u87	Because you know what? I want to leave behind everything that's been going on all these years. As a Greek state, as a Greek society, we must leave behind everything that hurt us. I said it, but you didn't respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u88	With these here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u89	There are twenty-eight executives who will be invited to organise and pass their science on to the new services of the national mechanism, so that the country will finally have a national mechanism against any risk. That is our responsibility. We're not making any reference to human life for communication reasons. We serve human life. One year now, we have proved toward everything that happens, that we are present, that we are giving our struggle, that we are trying, that we are working. Let us be judged by this and you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u90	We continue the process on the list. As I said before, I will give the floor to Mrs Zetta Makre from New Democracy for seven minutes, because Mrs Makre will then chair a committee. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must admit, of course, before I started my speech, that I did not believe in my ears when I heard SYRIZA colleagues blaming us for the posters. I didn't believe my ears! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will begin by warmly congratulating the Minister, Mr Pierrakakis, on his speech, which was a model of sound, sobering and parliamentary vague speech. Congratulations not only on your work but also on your presence, Minister! I have also heard you mention very emphatically at one of the recent meetings of the relevant Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, in whose work this bill has been discussed, that a well-considered high-age computer properly described your Ministry as a Ministry of Lost Opportunities, having lost too many opportunities in the past decades for the digital transformation of the state. A digital transformation that would accelerate processes would multiply the benefits for the country and the citizens, bringing more investment, creating new jobs and facilitating the everyday life and quality of Greeks. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I believe, Minister, that by guided by the vision you have as young people and young people in politics, by your commitment to this and by the choice of excellent technocrats as your associates, you have managed to turn the Department of Digital Governance into a Ministry of Lost Opportunities into a Ministry of Inequality Reduction. And that, because you have exploited and gained opportunities, such as that of the health crisis, and you work perfectly, quickly and effectively on the capabilities of digital functions and systems. The project for the digitisation of public policies and your digital footprint will be a reserve for the immediate future and for the future of future generations, since the applications of these technologies aim to reduce the inequality of the main component of the fight against corruption, strengthen the accessibility of vulnerable groups, strengthen social cohesion and increase the confidence of citizens in institutions. Thus, digitisation, for the commander, is a guarantee of transparency and equal treatment, and for the administration a necessary condition of supervision and an extension of public accountability, with the final result that the State operates properly. With up-to-date, modern, innovative legislative interventions, the present and the one you have announced and already in consultation on the Digital Governance Code, it appears that the Ministry of Digital Governance, through its institutional role, comes to fill timeless modernization gaps in issues of speed and use of technologies, to facilitate, simplify, accelerate interconnected systems, but also to ease, through the interoperability of public services, citizens from time to time. Thus, this bill brings five extremely important reforms for the daily lives of citizens, most of which are socially sound and humanitarian. Key reforms that this project is working on are the following: The process of intangible prescribing, which is now taking place on a permanent basis, since it had been established by means of an act of legislation as an emergency measure to combat the pandemic. The facilitation of families who are subject to accountability or procession, to submit requests and supporting documents by digital means. The interconnection of the National Register of Candidates of Applicants for Parents and the National Register of Candidates for Contractors with the National Register of Adults. The digital public service which simplifies the required process of issuing, receiving and presenting a copy of a degree in a written form for the benefit of both citizens and competent public bodies, as it discharges the administrative burden of issuing a copy of the degree and strengthens the extroversion and interoperability of higher education bodies at European level. The provision of a new service in the JEPs that will provide the possibility of video call to serve the citizen without the need for his physical presence in the JEP guises. Strengthening the functioning of the single digital portal. The establishment of the National Civil Communications Register. The strengthening of interoperability between the Independent Public Revenue Authority and all public bodies, so that tax information is no longer provided by interested parties in person but sought by the service. At the same time, the bill provides for an improvement of the existing institutional framework for the support of audiovisual producers and for the attraction of more national and foreign producers. This is because the production of films in the country - beyond the direct economic benefit - can have multiple added value as a advertising product. You referred to Kefalonia. I'll tell you the example of Skopelos, which is in the county I'm dealing with. With the 'Mamma Mia', we have seen a great increase in tourism and recognizability. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, digital transformation is now an absolute necessity but also a priority in the international environment that we are living through. Over the last four months, the citizen who has become addicted to extremely modest government performance has been amazed but also satisfied with the rapid efforts made, in approval of the unexpected result in facilitating his everyday life. Rich account of the single digital gate gov.gr in its four months of operation: five million two thousand visits, seven million seven hundred six thousand documents, one hundred ninety-seven thousand five-sixteen licences, four hundred sixty-three-three thousand responsible statements, fifty-seven thousand birth certificates, two thousand fourteen thousand intangible prescriptions, eighty-three-seven thousand ninety-seven applications in kindergartens, sixty-sixty-seven visits to the digital academy, five-seven-seven-five digital services that were scattered throughout the public sector. In order to speed up the digital reform, it is crucial to have a common vision of decapitating public administration from the existing malfunctions, due to the bureaucratic approach of management and processing of operations. Therefore, there should be continuity, commitment and commitment of the administration, supported by a corresponding political will. The bet is for all the Members of Parliament. Convergence is essential. This digital revolution, which brings improvements to the living conditions of the Greeks, must all be ensured, promoted, upgraded, updated. Otherwise, ideas and reluctance to change perceptions will once again lead to lost opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the floor will be given by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Kerameos, for the amendment of a general number of 389 and a specialist number 2. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I congratulate my colleagues on their interruption. With regard to Amendment No 389/2, which relates to two-year pre-school education, I would like to mention the following: everything has been launched to implement two-year compulsory pre-school education now in three hundred twenty-seven municipalities in the country, despite the adverse conditions that our country has encountered this year. For five municipalities of particular complexity, such as Athens, Kallithea, Painting, Nea Smyrni and Neapolis Thessaloniki, there are special difficulties in finding a sufficient number of rooms or building them by the relevant bodies. Constructions, as you can see, this year had additional difficulties because of pandemic. We therefore provide for a more time for the implementation of two-year compulsory pre-school education specifically for these municipalities. Since September the two-year-old kindergarten will apply to three hundred twenty-seven municipalities in the country. I would also like to take this opportunity, because there is provision in one amendment concerning appointments, to say the following: the final tables are being completed in order to be recruited, to appoint teachers for special education and training, as we have already said. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u96	Madam Minister, please stay on the benches. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor. I would only ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much. Minister, you have brought us the amendment by which, in five municipalities in the country, out of more than three hundred municipalities, the application of two-year compulsory education is postponed. First of all, twenty days ago, there was a bill of education. You could bring this amendment into the specific bill, the education bill and not emblematically into an unrelated bill. But the important thing is not that. The important thing is that we have five major municipalities - including the Municipality of Athens - where, in particular, the Municipality of Athens - the municipal authority of now and the former - leave the kronovirus, not everywhere, as an argument and as an alibi - does not apply this year's two-year pre-school education. I wanted to tell you that for some people this two-year-old pre-school education, like for Mr. Bakoyannis and Mr. Kamin. But for families and children it is a right. Already in May, Mr. Bakoyannis had been warned on the municipal council to leave the "big walks" - window works - and to deal with the main problems, the very hot problems of the citizens in Athens. He left it like that. The coronary was an opportunity to uncover the story of the "great walk", with the irregularities and all that took place, with the tenders that were not made, with the awards etc. People know. He sees them, lives them every day. Behind the window, however - which is broken, unfortunately, this window - there is people's lives. You've abandoned her. I wanted to ask: Article 2 of the amendment provides for the programme of financial support for families to provide care for infants and infants from two and a half years to their age of registration in compulsory education. The question is: what is the age of admission to compulsory education for the five municipalities that do not apply to compulsory two-year pre-school? Is that four? Is it six? And this is of great importance, because thousands of children in the Municipality of Athens and other municipalities staying out of compulsory pre-school education - why is the application, as you said, suspended for a year? Are they going into the voucher program? They're staying at nursery stations? What do you anticipate on this? There is complete silence in the amendment. I would also like to make a clear answer to this question, so that there are no questions of interpretation and misunderstandings with ministerial decisions. To conclude, Minister, I am pleased to tell you that the fact that in the three hundred and twenty-four municipalities, as you said, in the country where two-year-old pre-school education applies, is a project that SYRIZA went ahead. You voted against it in the House then. You did not mind, of course, because there was a positive response from public opinion, citizens and families. You voted against the introduction of the two-year pre-school age and voted for the issues of electronic infrastructure only. They're recorded in the Minutes. Today, you are giving an extension and agitated not to mention what law you are prolonging. Because the extension relates to Law 4521/2018, the law of SYRIZA. That is what you are prolonging and do not apply - that means an extension - for one year for the five municipalities. This law was the implementation of a thirty-year-old outstandingity. That has been the case since 1984. That was how unsuccessful the application of two-year pre-school education was.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u98	Good, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President. I expect an answer on the issue of children in the municipalities where they are going. We propose that there should be specific regulation with vouchers, that children should not be turned homes for a whole year. I think we should speak frankly here. It is a demonstration of the failure of the municipal authorities to which you refer to these municipalities. I know it was about a year ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Philly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u101	I'm done with this. ...the parents and the responsible education department in the Municipality of Athens an agreement with a minority of the municipality - the previous municipal authority, of course - with a minority of the implementation of this law. I hope that the extension does not mean, in essence, undermining the right of children to two-year compulsory education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u102	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor. Warm request as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Philly, if we did not believe in two-year-old pre-school education, we would not have made such an effort last July when the New Democracy took over the country's governance. I remind you, Mr Philie, and I have publicly told you - of the hundreds of four municipalities that would enter two-year-old pre-school education in September, do you know what situation you left the Ministry of Education? The services came to the 50 and told us 'We cannot implement it'. Why? 'Because we don't have human resources, because we don't have rooms'. Mr. Philie, because you said it was all registered, I urge you to look at the Minutes of the House because the New Democracy had not voted against. The New Democracy had voted for "the present", stressing two things: that it is obvious in favour of two-year pre-school education, an effort initiated by Marietta Giannaku and, secondly, that you legislate by putting the cart in front of the horse. As has been proved in practice, you have legislated without ensuring the necessary rooms to implement the two-year compulsory pre-school education and the necessary staff. We solved both of them. We held a race last July, August, such days in order to implement the highest possible number of municipalities compulsory pre-school education. We did it and there were only thirteen municipalities left except then. Now you say why it came as an amendment. But why are we exhausted all possibilities, Mr Philly, so that two-year compulsory pre-school education can be applied to the fullest possible extent? Can we agree once that we agree? Should we agree that we are in favour of two-year compulsory pre-school education? We are the ones and we are implementing it. You voted for it, indeed your own initiative, so it did start, but you did not take care of it. Because, I remind you, of the hundreds of fourteen municipalities in the country in fifty could not be implemented. So I say this: at the moment we are pleased to say that since September the two-year compulsory kindergarten will be applied to three hundred twenty-seven municipalities in the country. This is a very important acquis for which very great efforts have been made. As far as the five municipalities who take an extension of one year are concerned, you understand this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, but I assure you, because we have discussed in detail with the relevant ministers there, obviously there will also be a provision. But I do not want to go into other fields, Mr President. It is a question of ministerial decision, not of a provision, precisely in order to provide for all the procedures to be used to incorporate these children into pre-school education. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank the Minister. Mrs. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA has the floor. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution will be followed by Mr. Villiardos, Mr. Katrinis then, Mr. Rousopoulos and Mrs. Alexopoulou. I read four or five names to have a row. Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on this bill, I would like to address two - three issues that need a detailed report. The first is the repeated circumvention of the rules of good law. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that, on the occasion of a bill, the government has introduced a number of very serious provisions, regardless of the main theme of the draft law that has been tabled, without having sufficient time for Members to process and debate. In this respect, we find that a bill entitled to speed up, simplify and strengthen audiovisual works and digital governance incorporates many problematic elements. First, it is transformed and finally conceals a rapidly transmitted pandemic of opaque direct assignments. In particular, as it is already known, several million euros were given during the quarantine in this way. In particular, the Ministry of Mr Pierracakis and all the supervised bodies have spent around 5 million in direct assignments from 19-320 to today, that is to say, two and a half months of pandemic and 17,000, 19,000 to keep them out of 20,000. There is also a question of regularising public positions, with sudden changes in organisations such as the EEA, the General Secretariat of Telecommunications and Post and the Ministry of Digital Governance. Finally, there is a series of rhetorical recruitment, without merit, transparency and accountability, which turn the state into a New Democracy party mechanism for the service of private interests. A characteristic example is the recruitment of dozens of experts and retired persons included in the provisions of the draft law. The "within the texts" has now become the rule in almost all the bills you bring. And as it appears that in the so-called state of digital governance, the setting-up of tens of new permanent officials is not enough, you add, whenever you find an opportunity, even a few dozen officials to special posts of experts and transferors with new overlapping responsibilities. In short, the Greek people are committed to perpetuating the Greek people. At second level, now, there is a matter of substance with the provisions of the main body of the bill. The issue of the bill, as we have said, is speeding up and simplifying the strengthening of audiovisual works. The question is, however, that it is not just for our country to attract investment. What is your long-term strategy in the audiovisual sector? Is there a holistic plan and framework? And is this simplification being made? Is it the privatization or the abolition of any control procedure introduced in Article 8? By abolishing the double-checking established by the SYRIZA Government, which leaves room for complaints and suspicions of non-transparency between investors? By entering the evaluation committees alone with their experience in the field of audiovisual productions, without further clarification? You could, if you were really interested in all this, set a minimum basic set of selection criteria on the proposals submitted to the committees. Or, for example, create transparently a register of raters with the participation of public officials in the staff of committees, along with the provision that ratings with experience of film production should come from specific and predefined specialities, for example, directors, photographers, moderns, individuals of the production site, etc. That is, to be people who are essential to film work as a whole and universal experience and knowledge of what production requires. Another safety test would also be, in conjunction with the register, those committees should be set up by lot per application and their members should not, for example, participate in a previous or subsequent process of completeness or judgment of the same request. Finally, if you were really interested in all of this, you would place greater emphasis on controlling the physical object of State aid, that is, the work carried out after the completion of its production. At this point there is a gray zone with regard to its control, although how State aid has been exploited in relation to the product produced and exactly how the completion of an investment project is certified. For a year now, however, the general absence of any government plans for cultural production in the country has been characteristic. The lack of political will and the repatriations of the Ministry of Culture to support thousands of artists and workers in the field of culture in the midst of an economic crisis are a real example of this policy. Not being implemented. Promises given without a reflection. Transparent direct award procedures. The reactions of the artistic world from the absence of substantial support measures continue to date. In such a context, I wonder: What are the additional incentives given in the midst of a crisis to strengthen and stimulate domestic production of audiovisual works? Is local cinema and total workers in this sector aided? Did you really care as a government, really, this sector? Did you care when the people who serve him or dream to serve him? It is a rhetorical question, of course. The answer is clear from your practice. Because as we saw two of the thirty-seven university departments that you rushed to dismantle before they even operated were the Audiovisual Media Production Department and the Film Department at the University of Western Macedonia, a region that for your Government is a place of experimentation and poverty. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, and I am closing down with this, it is a joint finding that when the New Democracy Government talks about simplification, it means opacity and, where it talks about acceleration, a transaction is being concealed. That's the reality. And as long as it does not, unfortunately, change the future of culture, like the rest of the sectors, it will be limited and filthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u106	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we take the view that today's draft law is intended to complement an effort initiated a few years ago on the part of the Hellenic American community, in particular, as regards the tightening up of our production relations. In this respect, we must not forget that during the crisis and not just, several Greek actors tried to work abroad, such as the United States. There is Greek Film Festival in Los Angeles, as well as New York Greek Film Festival in New York. Both are extremely important not only for the family but also for potential tourists in Greece, Americans and others. There are also Greek Film Festivals in Australia and London. While apart from the homogeneity, especially now with the Brain Drain which has increased the migration and which gives the Greeks the opportunity to maintain contact with our country, through these festivals Greece, Greek cinema and our production potential. SYRIZA, with his motives of L.4487/2017 and with Mr. Pappa's visit, is regrettable, however, if what is being heard - as well as Mr. Tsipras in the United States in 2017 and 2018 especially in an important family with studios in Chicago and Toronto, as we will testify in the Minutes, tried to do so. And recently the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Frangoyannis, responsible for economic diplomacy and extroversion, continued on the same line as regards the promotion of producers on his visit to Chicago. It refers to an article that we will present in the Minutes that it has relations with a Greek studio of interests of the Costa Navarino family, which was involved in film by promoting Messinia. In addition to the Greek Americans and the Constantakopoulos family, the Latsi family also has international film production companies, “1821 Media” and “Hercules Film Fund”. He works together several years with important Hollywood stars, while there are famous Greek directors abroad like Lanthimus today, Angelopoulos and others. In the first part of the bill concerning the audiovisual and producers' incentives, we will start from the fact that there are at least thirty-four production companies with a thousand nineteen employees on the Greek market, as we will present in the Minutes, while the market has shrinked, like all others because of the crisis. It is, however, much better for the government to support this sector than to share money with the media to promote its non-existent work. While it is more appropriate for Greek television series to be displayed and not Turkish, how far unscheduled, especially after the desecration of Agia Sophia by barbaric Turks and its conversion into Islamic mosques. We, as a Greek Solution, have put a question to the Minister responsible for the translation, if not the ban, of the Turkish propaganda films from channels, which we are sincerely ashamed of on their behalf, waiting for his answer. Finally, the global market for entertainment and information is estimated at $2.6 trillion, while only the TV market at $261.5 billion in 2018. The film market for tickets alone was estimated at $41.7 billion in the same year, with a greater United States of 11 billion dollars. Together with buying videos, which is very important, it amounts to USD 136 billion internationally. The first is the United States with 32.3 billion, followed by China with 15.8 billion, Japan with 7.9 trillion - always dollars - and the United Kingdom with 4.7 billion and Germany with 3.4 billion, as we will present in the Minutes. As far as the number of films is concerned, however, India is the Bollywood champion with a thousand eight hundred films in 2018, followed by Nigeria with nine hundred ninety-seven, China with eight hundred seventy-four Japan with six hundred seventy-four and the United States with six hundred sixty-sixteen. In relation to the electronic toy industry, which is also covered by the incentives of the law, it is very important. In particular, videogames in Greece are growing at an increasing rate, while in 2017 the turnover of the domestic market, the Greek market, exceeded EUR 60 million, as we will testify in the Minutes, along with other international statistics, so that there is a complete picture, we simply do not mention it here so that it will not be wasted any more time. There is a synergy with related IT sectors, with "Fintech", with electronic payments, with audiovisual effects, with bets, mobile communication and mobile media. Here we remind ourselves of the acquisition of Greek startups "ADSORBA" in gambling and "SQUIZ DOM" in mobile games. Significant development may have additional areas such as virtual reality using it for museum visits, interactive sports applications, as well as electronic games competitions, which, according to "DELOITTE" will have revenues in the United States of the order of 1,5 billion dollars. In general terms, however, with regard to the audiovisual industry, apart from the United States, Eastern Europe has major successes in terms of both cultural supply and economic activity. In particular, the Czech Republic, with the contribution of anticipated individuals, such as Milos Forman, Poland, who specifically promotes delivery and animation, as well as Hungary, whose income has reached 464 million euro in 2019 with three hundred nineteen productions, of which eighty-three international productions, as we will present in the Minutes. This is indeed a major industry in Hungary. Another benefit is the sale of Greek products and tourism, noting that in Greece films like Zorbas and others have significantly promoted our tourist arrivals. For example, when "Never on Sunday" and "Zorbas" were shown, the rise was 24% and 29% respectively, while the result for Kefalonia and Skopelos is known from the films "Mandolino of Captain Corelli" and "Mamma Mia", as we will testify in the Minutes, always with the hope of studying the Minutes, to help our country as much as possible. This is our goal as a Greek solution. Many other countries, of course, have been assisted by the audiovisual industry, such as New Zealand with the Lord of the Rings and Northern Ireland with the Game of Thrones. With regard to the incentives for production, in Articles 2 and 5 we will submit in the minutes a table of our own, which is provided by Greece with the current draft law compared to other countries, noting that films with Greek subjects, such as "Troyia", which was filmed in 2003 in Malta and Mexico, "Alexander the Great" in 2004 in Mexico or "The 300", which turned completely digitalally in Montreal also helped Greece. On the basis of our table, we have seen that the incentives offered by Greece, namely the increase in eligible expenditure to 40% from 25%, are very generous, which has given us an impression and we would like to ask why. Moreover, the eligible costs are somewhat flexible in terms of the amount, which is ultimately spent in Greece, and we assume that the ceiling of EUR 5 million is withdrawn. Why, really? Shouldn't there be a limit? We also object as regards the control of producers in Articles 7 and 8. Firstly, we have not seen either here in the original L.4487/2017 or in the selection procedure for cultural content or cultural contribution, as is called in other countries, which is very important. In particular, the spectacle industry is used for propaganda purposes in times of war, as well as in peace, and it promotes specific messages that concern society and the economy. It is therefore necessary to check. Secondly, there is also no control over safety issues in film production, recalling that they have been used as a cover many times for spying or for the arrest of the drug dealer, the well-known 'El Chapo', as we will also be tabling in the Minutes. What is envisaged, for example, if foreign workshops collect photographs of military bases, record opponents, or recruit people? We haven't seen anything in the bill at all. Finally, the deadline for evaluation within 10 days in Article 7 is suffocating without any comprehensible reason. While producers require time, they must be properly monitored in cooperation with safety services, archaeological services and so on. In relation to the other large part of the bill, with digital governance concisely, it is certainly not panacea, but a basic pursuit of BSE, 'internationalism', which leads to the following: firstly, the reduction of public spending, secondly, the reduction of the costs of banks and the increase in their already arrogant supplies, and, thirdly, the exploitation of personal data, which we referred to in the Court of Auditors bill, which has been characterised by Mr Scorcho in the 20th century as the oil of the first century. It is neither a question of improving services nor of safeguarding them, as was established by the fraud of the German 'WIRECARD', from the messages recently sent by the 'ALPHA BANK', from the charges of Piraeus in New Year's Year's Day or from the large number of outstanding pensions in e - Evka. It is, of course, an improvement when it comes to printing documents from home or prescribing, which should have been launched. In relation to electronic auctions, however, this is totally unacceptable, how much more so when Greece is the only country in Europe that has adopted them. On the other hand, by closing down, the digital transition became very steep, so the citizens are not familiar with the dangers, while many do not preserve their personal passwords and data, giving them to acquaintances, accountants and others, to serve them. What happens when intercepts are found? For example, the danger of fraud in consultation has been mentioned, which we do not know how the government will deal with. Who ensures the citizens of fraud? What is planned for serving those who are not familiar and for the benefiting banks, who have reduced their network by investing 1 billion euros in computerisation, afflicting the Greeks with whose money they have survived? However, it is not mentioned anywhere in the General Accounting Office that the cost of supplies for computer systems, but only at staff level, which we consider to be totally unacceptable. Although we are therefore in favour of modernising the procedures, we have very great reservations about Articles 14 to 22, with the exception of Articles 13. In particular, Articles 20 to 22 refer to the recruitment of our 'our own children', whereas, with regard to the Juvenile Register in Articles 23 and 24, their nationality is not mentioned. Therefore, if it is not clarified, we will certainly not vote for it, so that we do not support, among other things, programmes for the movement of minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u108	Next speaker, Mr Katrinis, from the Change Movement. As we have said, Mr Rusopoulos, Mrs Alexopoulou, Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Zarifopoulou, will follow. Here, Mr. Katrin, come to Stepma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor to be put to the amendment number 390 concerning the National Information Service. But you will allow me, before I refer to the amendment, to make three introductory remarks. First of all, I would like to express the unequivocal condemnation of Erdogan's provocative action to turn Agia Sophia into a mosque, a decision which insults Hellenism, Christianity against the earth, but let me say that it also affects all modern Western civilization. It is also a decision that can no longer remain in the verbal condemnation of international organisations and partners. As we are in Parliament's Chamber, I will confine myself to the limits of parliamentaryism, and since our country is currently holding the Presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, an agency which has a very high agenda to deal with issues of respect for cultural heritage, human rights and the expression of religious freedoms and beliefs, I believe that a similar initiative should be taken in order to impose sanctions on Turkey. The second point relates to the bill, where our rapporteur, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulou, has already referred to the positive points which he contains and, of course, we must support, particularly in the part of strengthening digital governance, how much more so in Article 14, which deals with special education and the way in which the treatments of children, who have been subjected to special treatment, are, unfortunately, forced to set up an appointment of two and three and four weeks later, in order to present themselves and take the money that they have spent on the treatment of their children. I want to believe that these images will belong to the past. However, I take the opportunity from Amendment No 386, which the Ministry of Digital Governance has tabled on radio frequencies, to say this because we already have an unanswered question, which we have tabled since 8 May and a specific request for the Committee on Production and Trade and the Public Administration to convene, so that the Minister can inform us of the matter of high charges on mobile phone data, which was raised in the recent investigation by the Committee on Competition and we still have not received an answer. In fact, we were only answered by the Competition Committee, and not by the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, and I would remind you, Minister, that the Competition Committee was talking about a small number of companies operating in our country. Mrs Giannakopoulou has also put this to you in committee, that this is, of course, at the expense of competition and of the charges which exist for Greek citizens, from the highest in Europe and in the OECD countries. It was talking about barriers to entry of new companies due to the conditions of the tendering procedure for the spectrum of frequencies. Of course, in our question, we have also tabled specific topics: If you intend to go to a frequency-frame commitment for new entrants, so that there will be a drop in prices, a temporary obligation for national roaming, an extension of the obligation to meet development criteria so that smaller players can enter the market and increase competition and, of course, a higher range of 3,440-3,800 GHz for new companies, with the maximum range, allocated per provider in the 700-2,100 areas and what I have just said. Unfortunately, Minister, we have not received any response so far and of course you have not come to the committee to tell us whether you think these charges are high and what you intend to do. We say this because it is the national Commission which, of course, sets the conditions for the opening of the tender, but I think it is also a political decision by the Government on whether to strengthen competition and protect consumers from excessive charges for the use of mobile data. ‘According to Amendment 390 to the National Intelligence Agency, which was tabled on Friday, it is a matter of deforestation of the Agency and of course not of modernisation, as you refer to the fundamental changes which concern two issues that also raise two serious questions. The Nealgical Important Electronic Intelligence Directorate, along with the staff and infrastructure of the central and regional authorities, is transferred to the Ministry of National Defence and is part of the new self-employed department of the OHIM. A first issue raised here is why, since this Directorate's organic positions are transferred from the National Information Service to the Ministry of National Defence, eventually the transported officials are placed in the new address in personal positions and do not maintain their organic positions. Of course, it is clear why this is done in order to resolve your hands in the reorganisation of the address you are obviously planning, in the preparation of a new establishment plan and in the provision of organic positions, which are not certain to be understood by the transported officials. Therefore, your aim is to redesign this Service with new staff or staff who are already serving at the Ministry of National Defence, and this is a major issue that I will come back to. Of course, there is no question of you, because, after they do the same work, you do not keep the same remuneration and go to the method of personal dispute or of course do not include the fact that members of the bureau of the association of workers, who are headed by all the officials of the Office, are automatically transferred to another ministry, while L.1264 is clear and prohibits transfers when they are trade unionists. In addition, a Centre for Technological Support, Development and Innovation is hereby established. The Office is supported by a special account so that it can finance this centre. It is contradictory to talk about modernising the NSA when you cut off a peak service from it and go to another Ministry and at the same time set up a center, which could just serve to modernise the transfer address. We are very sceptical when you talk about funding other bodies than the Greek State, for reasons of security and independence. It is therefore clear that our disagreement on the principle of the proposed regulation for major political, historical and national reasons, which are easily and understandable and also. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The National Intelligence Agency was designed as a political service and consists of civilian personnel to be subject to democratic control of the state. The army, of course, always wanted to create its own intelligence service and you know very well that the previous Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos also had an enthusiastic desire to do something like this. But that is not the way of transferring staff to do so. The neural management that you want to carry must remain and operate where it is located and must, of course, be modernised, with actions and programmes, without necessarily funding from third parties or research centres of L.4310/2014. It should be done with public money and resources alone. That is why we consider this transfer to be timely, especially in the way it is being attempted. Change of administration to a sensitive unit of the National Information Service cannot be done without taking into account historical reasons why this Service operates as a political service. The army - I repeat - can develop its own similar service. But it cannot use a service which, from its culture and nature, has so far been under political direction for very specific historical reasons, but also national ones. You are playing with fire, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because both the amendment and the way it has been tabled are against us. We call it at least insurmountable and, of course, express our deep disagreement. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u110	Next speaker, Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Those who spend the fifth-sixth-sixth-century decade of their lives will remember that in their early childhood, going to the movie before we began to watch a five-minute or seven-minute film with the so-called "COMMUNICA". It was a small news release, filmed by the Cinema Service of the Ministry of the Press. Previously, the corresponding was produced by the Army Cinema Service and older than private ones, such as the Manaki brothers who were the first in the Balkans since 1905, who filmed events of everyday life, social and political life. When I took over the debts of a Minister of State with responsibility for the press in 2004, I remember that with my associates I asked to visit the archives kept in a building - warehouse in Geraka. There were eight hundred hours of material, 100 years of modern Greek history in respect of decent conditions, but inappropriate and unbiased. Then digitisation was something very new. We started and voted out these eight hundred hours of material and we founded - I had the honour of presenting it to the Greek Parliament - the National Audiovisual Archive. I stayed quiet, Minister - you will understand why this little historical retreat is worthy - that things have now entered into a series, that the water has entered the groove and the Greek history has been captured in the film and then digitally, so he would live forever. Because, as those who have been a little involved know, film is flammable and very quickly it can be destroyed. A small fire in that file on the old man would have disappeared a hundred years of national audiovisual history. At the same time, we worked with my partners on the ERT file. We have reached a point where, as I am told, some individuals even claim the junta's trial as theirs, please! In fact, as I learned recently, they first won. Why am I saying all this? At some point, around 2010, when the next government came, the PASOK government, unfortunately the National Audio Archive was abolished. It cost 600,000 euros a year in the Greek state. So the government preferred to abolish it and transfer it to the ERT. Somebody's gonna tell me, but, uh, you've been a journalist before, have you been annoyed about taking the file to the ERT? I remember that in 1989, when we started private television, I was one of those who started the first private channel. Some of the technical or other specialties of state television went to private channels with their "principal" i.e. with archive material from the past, held by ERT or the Greek State, and thus asked for the appropriate, i.e. to work on private channels. In fact, in 2004, shortly before the Olympic Games began, we had arrested someone who with a whole box of material was leaving to give it who knows where. That's why I decided I wasn't taking the file to the ERT. The National Audiovisual Archive sold about EUR 2,500 per minute, that material on foreign or Greek channels, with the obligation, of course, to make it public according to their contract, for one or three times. Imagine, since we had or will have the Olympic Games - we do not have them, as predicted this year, but of time - the touch of the flame of '36, which is the first sight of the flame. The only country that has this copyright internationally is Greece. So, between two hundred countries, which participate in the Olympic Games, only Greece could make use of this material, collecting much more money than the costs of the National Audiovisual Archive. It's been those days. Later, he came - I must confess - the SYRIZA government and created the EMEA. The Minister comes today and strengthens the EMEA. I am particularly pleased that this is because the National Audiovisual Centre was and is necessary. We were then the only country in Europe that had no National Audiovisual Archive. It is a very diverse and multifaceted activity of the EMEA. What the current Minister has done with the Deputy Secretary-General's colleagues - and all three of them - are things that I had dreamed of in 2004, but unfortunately they were not done. That is what I have said to you so far, Mr Minister and Mr Secretary-General. Make sure you strengthen this project so that someone doesn't come next and destroy it. It's not easy anymore. The pandemic came and everything gets much faster digital, not by themselves, not by God, but by your very important intervention. The digital dividend, the digitalisation, the telemedicine I was talking about in 2005-2006, when we made the digital dividend for the first time in our country, when we proceeded to digital broadcasting - and it was not only for television to be of better quality in films or football, but especially for this digital dividend, of course, and the telemedicine, to which Mr Tagaras referred in his introduction at the beginning of this debate - were the most important things. I close by saying that today red tape is falling and is not being digitised. In other words, we do not do what others would or have done in other countries, that is to say simply digit the texts. We are reducing bureaucratic procedures, and that is something that the citizen understands. Allow me, part of your joy, Minister and Mr Secretary-General, to receive me today. Thank you very much and I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Rusopulus. Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed very important that such a bill to be passed on to the Greek Parliament, because we will all agree that our country, in all previous years, has been back in relation to everything that we are discussing today, from the treatment of audiovisual measures to digital public services, in general, the facilitation of digital contact between citizens and businesses with the public. So you will allow me, on this important draft law, to make some remarks, which are useful, I think. This is because, as the experience of a year in the House shows, as you of the government heard the Greek Solution, then only profit existed for Greece and good for our society. A key part of the bill is the promotion and simplification of procedures for strengthening the production of audiovisual works. Minister Pierracakis had pointed out in any event that Greece is a natural studio, but that, due to the lengthy procedures, no one chose. Thus, the Government submits that the draft law promotes the simplest procedures. But will this happen today with this new law? I'm afraid it's hard. This is because, although with the first chapter of the draft law, you are financially strengthening the EMS, i.e. the body responsible for producing products from abroad, it is not clear to which Ministry the powers will be incorporated, to which Ministry the line will be drawn up. Will it be the Ministry of Digital Governance, the Ministry of Culture, or any other Ministry? As far as the attraction of foreign producers in Greece is concerned, I would ask you on Article 12, where you refer to the incentives, because we do not give any other incentives, especially tax incentives, such as those made in Romania, with the result that this country, which does not have the cultural and historical depth of Greece, attracts film production and ensures thousands of jobs for its citizens. Why? Because it gives a lot of motivation. Let us now say a few words about the chapter on digital governance. You want, you say, to combat bureaucracy and modernise the state. The Greek Solution is obviously in favour of anything that serves the citizen, the Greek. But do you know what I've heard from the citizens lately? That under the pretext of the coronary pandemic public services are afflicting the world. They are also slowly serving people who do not honour public administration. See this, gentlemen of the government. Why, what can we do with the improvement provisions when citizens and businesses are not served by the public? Unfortunately, the public services have been paralysed for months. This shows how unprepared the government was to deal effectively with the recent COVID crisis -19. Allow me, on Article 16, to make an important point - I think - about it. The article actually provides for all of us to trust our personal data, the most sensitive, in the hands of individuals, such as bank and other employees. So who will guarantee us that we will not have the well-known story of fraud, since the phones and personal information of citizens can fall into anyone's hands? Isn't that what's happening now? With this article in the bill, this can be extended even further and so we are leading to the collapse of the article and the spirit behind this article. Furthermore, I would remind you that, in the Constitution, civil personal data information can only be trusted by the state to civil servants, not private. As we talk about all of this, there is, you know, the "blockchain", technology that Greek scientists have created abroad, a technology that solves the issues of bureaucracy, but it can also serve to tackle illegal immigration, since it allows individual electronic identification. So why not take this technology into account? Why do we leave unexploited worthless Greeks working abroad? Haven't you heard of the efforts made by other European countries using blockchain technology in order to protect the citizens' personal data by creating unregulated identities? This article says "State function of an electronic prescription system" and that, of course, only concerns the insured. You know, I would like to refer to Article 13 on a subject that touches the HEIs, the people with special abilities, as I describe them, which I am particularly sensitive to. Do you know how many of those suffering from chronic illnesses, disability and from different kinds of hardships, kinetics and others, are today insecure? There's too many of them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, for a minute, because it's about LEADER. Shouldn't these weak fellow men include them in this article? However, it is noticeable that they cannot be served because the law-based disposable medical equipment is provided only by the hospitals' pharmacies and not by private pharmacies. So I ask: How will these people be served, given the ban on entering hospitals because of a coronary? Is their health directly endangered? So the draft law should foresee for these people too. These were my remarks, ladies and gentlemen, and it would be good for the government to take them into account, because they come from within society, from our suffering fellow human beings. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u114	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u115	I shall refer to two points of order and we shall have to put them in plenary. First of all, Monday is a day of parliamentary scrutiny. The New Democracy, which promises normality, beyond exceptions, makes the return. I would like to say something about people listening to it too. The MEP is not only to be in the House and in the committees. It's about getting in touch with the world, interfering. There are huge problems. We have now arrived here - to mitigate what is called 'normality' - on Monday and Friday, which are days of parliamentary scrutiny, to have legislative work. Why? That's the question. Is that normal? Answer me! We will not only see it in the Conference of Presidents. I'll see you from here, so people can hear. Why is that so? Why do committees and plenary meet at the same time? Can't there be better programming? Oh, no. We said, the logic is "We have found a priest to bury some tens of them", that is to say, all of them. That is unacceptable, in our view, and it must be stopped once. You who are talking about Regulations and Institutionality and you say that you must comply with the regulations, etc., you are the first to violate it. Of course, this was done before, at the outskirts, by the previous governments. We don't acquit them. But to a certain extent, it's getting sweeter now. Pack one after the other, all the bills. This has another side, which deals with these rapid procedures. You know, the conversation isn't just in the House. In the House, the association of forces is specific. It's also the world and the movement what they say and how they make it summertime, with the threat of coronary again. We have therefore repeatedly raised this issue in the Conference of Presidents, as well as in public. This hawaas - to say it popularly - cannot be continued, with over-intensive work that actually degrades and goes through serious issues. I do not want to talk much about the bill, because the rapporteur has spoken to us with arguments. I want to make a comment to both the government and other parties. Listen, we're talking politically. We're asking questions. You're not answering. The theory that we have a different view in general is other words to be loved, to escape. We ask specific questions, so that this government and, of course, the other parties. They usually avoid. Why? Are you afraid? Since you're saying you're right on your side. I shall mainly speak of the amendment, which has been debated a great deal. I am talking about the amendment, which concerns the PPE, which the government has supported as well as the other parties have criticised and disagreed. What is the problem with this amendment? In our opinion, it's too deep, it's not superficial. Of course, there may be anxiety, lack of transparency, ruffetti. That was what the rapporteur of the opposition party said. These, of course, have not changed even the previous ones, to be honest about what is happening. Man's soul abyss about what happens to these services. That's not what I'm saying. They say it even those who have ruled and know exactly what is going on. So how do you explain the secondment of this address - you know, of course, who it is, and others know it, but let's say it's an Intelligence Directorate, to say it elegantly - and to join the Ministry of Defence? Where does that come from, really? Is it only the issue that is being criticised - is it correct - that is, from the NAP? It is, too, but it is not the main, in our opinion. Where's it joining? It is part of the establishment of an Intelligence Service, which will cooperate, consolidate and be such a NATO agency. To say this quite simply, there is a NATO decision - it is old, I will say it after - which says that we need to unify the information services so that the alliance can slaughter with better information, bomb, because NATO is an angel family! What will happen in reality, Ministers and gentlemen of the government and the others, who have not taken any trouble or do that you have not taken any trouble? This piece will be extracted, which I'm supposed to say - to be more relaxed - that's all we, which is controlled by Greece. Although it is related - not to open my mouth, it does, we are in Parliament - with many things, but we are supposed to be controlling it and using this piece for information and monitoring - that is, nothing secret from where we are threatened. Is it true or not? It's true. Who are we threatened by? That's the question. Who are those who threaten the country's sovereign rights and independence? Isn't it our ally in NATO, Turkey? Where do we have problems? We don't have northwest to identify it and not to mention the name? That's where we come from. These are not the neighbours we have to watch - each state does so, I do not make any judgments about this - about what is going on? Here's the question. That's our allies. We are therefore in an alliance of which members and especially in our surroundings are threatening. NATO whistles indifferently. He always whistles indifferently. Find it, he says. And not just NATO. Do not note, Mr Levane, because that is the truth and don't tell me that is the situation and we can't change it. I say it as a political criticism. Because I heard SYRIZA's criticism, I ask: is this a New Democracy today? Oh, no. So listen to the statements of the SYRIZA government in April 2016, when this decision was taken: Greece can and will cooperate with all these countries, namely NATO, the European Union, even with third parties - take care - in order to strengthen NATO's decision to create an information service within NATO. This is the SYRIZA government statement. Of course, New Democracy is bored with balls. This says: Creation of an information service - that is worthwhile - in NATO. That's what New Democracy does. It is the first country - member of NATO, which starts and makes this secondment. Of course there may be other reasons, but the depth is what we are saying, that is to say it is extracted from the NSA and takes it to the Ministry of Defence with this long-term objective. If we're wrong, and you think we're imagining, we're telling you that life itself will show it, as it has proved, too many things. Of course, what remains of the NSA? It remains the issue of internal security, which wants a very long debate. What's internal security? Well, do you think we don't know or see what's going on with internal security? Is it just the jihadists who come in or are some, as they say, terrorist organisations or various strange people? Oh, no. A system, which eventually leads to the monitoring of the activity of the People's Movement. Sadly or happily. They have come out and formally disproved that they do not, for example, monitor political parties and they have collapsed from reality itself. Of course, the whole project is part of and is linked to a fictional arsenal created by the European Union and the governments of Member States, such as EURODAC - know what it is - SIS II, an electronic basis for the exchange of information and a fuller file. This is in agreement with all governments and leave SYRIZA the tricks. You have agreed all these years - and before you agreed - in the name of the internal security of the European Union. That is the substance of the amendment, and that is why we are voting against it, beyond the rest. There is no serious argument, in our opinion, about this. Not that we're in favor of S.H.I.E.L.D. It's about transparency in the S.H.I.E.L.D. that people laugh. Of course there's a discrepancy. It's a secret service. So what's he gonna do? Is he gonna say everything in public? We do not agree or say that there can be a secret service that will post everything in the 'GENERAL'! We're not saying that. Let us see this now: The bill on digitalisation - has Mr Yiannis Delis said so at all - is it linked to such aspects? I don't mean with S.H.I.E.L.D. In a way, it's worse. Why is it worse? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. I won't be late. Don't tell us we don't want digitisation. Listen, if you don't know, because you're young, Minister, the first party that put computers and digitisation is the JRC and the "RIZOPASTI". Everyone knows that. And they made fun of us. We are the first to say that we need modernisation, modern technology to be implemented, etc. And we did it and we do it. The question is: who will serve. Listen, these will be paid - sometimes people will understand - to be able by banks, insurance companies, all the capital to have the information even if I have uric acid, for example. You know what's going on in America, how it's done. He wants a medical certificate, and when you go, he says: “It is not my interest to pay you, because you may die. He's dead. I'm not insurance against you." All sides talk about individual rights all the time and make reasons. Here, tell us where there are individual rights when anyone can know even if you have one - not to say what they call it in my village, I'm going to say it elegantly - back in a mountain and go get it? The insurance companies and other mechanisms will be able to do that. Don't say it's voluntary. This is blackmail. You either sign it or... Although most people don't look at insurance at all, they're not up to date. The New Democracy line, continuing with the SYRIZA line in relation to audiovisual material, is: All entrepreneurs and investors, 60,000 euros for short films, 15,000 euros for sirials, for cultural garbage. What they produce. Don't talk about school violence and everything else. Open the TV and see what American culture is as a whole. Slaughterhouse! We're out of our minds. All of these, then, are funding. On what criterion? Quality? Oh, no. The economics, what will bring money and let a world be disciplined in the wrong and tragic direction. Then we try to explain a number of phenomena. The role that the media plays nobody, but no serious person can deny him. From morning to night, what perceptions and personalities shape and cultivate. Of course, I will say one more thing and I will repeat it: the tragic one - for us it is an explanation - which has happened with the coronary, the Greek people will have to count it. People were in danger of dying, and the channels took 20 million to tell them to sit at home. That was their offer! She's barbaric, inhumane, worse than anything anyone can get in. Instead of volunteering, they were paid to convey messages about human life. Do you still support it? Tell us a point. Bash and they're poor? Who's got the channels? Shipowners, sharks. Everybody's got it. Nobody's poor. Would he fall out? Or did you do it to support the workers? Let's put his hand in the pocket. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to give us any more information on this matter. This is the abundance of the capitalist system itself. Finally, I want to say about Erdogan's decision on Agia Sophia, which is - and everyone understands - unacceptable, condemnable and an escalation of Turkish provocation. On the other hand, we have the sweeteners - as Dimitris Koutsoubas said, the Secretary-General of our party - reactions from NATO and the European Union, which, in any case, count otherwise. Their chess and Agia-Sofia and all the rest, slowly do not spoil commercial relations. That's life and it's been proven throughout history. These are your allies. You tell me: we have allies. The Communist Party of Turkey - I do not know if you have read the announcement, enter and read it - has come out open and denounced it. He said it was barbarism, said it, too. And in what circumstances? Under Erdogan regime conditions. It is the only party, as far as I know, so far as it has come out and says that a monument of humanity cannot be destroyed. I'm sorry, because the announcement, your favourite media, and the private sector that will do miracles, they didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u117	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that all ministerial amendments are accepted and we are also tabling some legislative improvements. Let me turn to one: we are broadening the concept of intangible prescribing by more or less legislative incorporation into it the intangible references of the examinations. In other words, within a few weeks, doctors other than prescribing medicines will also put the exams in the same way that one can go to do some tests, without necessarily having to visit his doctor in established and existing relationships with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u119	Good. The legislative improvements you have put forward will be distributed. Mr Zarifopopoulou, State Secretary for Digital Governance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the Ministry of Digital Governance sets two objectives: on the one hand, to strengthen Greece's competitiveness in the audiovisual productions sector and, on the other, to attract the investments concerned, to strengthen e-government and to speed up the country's digital transformation in total. With regard to the first objective, we must recognise here that we are starting from a good basis, from a good initiative, and that must be credited to the previous government. We are therefore coming to improve the existing law, giving stronger incentives and simplifying the relevant procedures, speeding up the times, in order to attract audiovisual productions from abroad, but also in order to strengthen the domestic industry to produce good quality exportable content and to be able to be present on the well-known international platforms. So, in order to achieve this, we are increasing the percentage of the financial compensation, the cash rebate, reducing the limits of the eligible costs, the limits of the ceilings, and simplifying the relevant procedures, precisely so that we can speed up the times. Through this coordinated effort, we believe that we will also be able to attract investment from abroad and stimulate the domestic industry and thus create many new jobs and, at the same time, promote the country internationally. With regard to the second objective, the acceleration of digital transformation, here too, must be recognised that in recent months there have been leaps forward and this must be credited to the present government. There have been jumps for two reasons. The first reason is that we have put the whole citizen at the heart of our efforts. We want the electronic services through the solutions we give to serve the needs of the citizen rather than the needs of the public administration. The second reason why we have done everything we have done in this period is because we have operated very methodically, very organizedly, with project groups, with timetables and with many small computer projects, with many fast victories, which have a huge impact on the daily lives of the citizen and reduced relative costs for the Greek taxpayer. Why? Because we are making full use of the exceptional engineers of the public and the wider public sector. The gov.gr has been embraced by all citizens. The figures are impressive both with regard to the visitability of the tens of thousands of certificates, which are now electronically issued, the almost two thousand electronic licences, almost half a million electronic declarations in charge and so on. We therefore add, with this draft law, new electronic services and new functions. We permanently simulate intact prescribing, a very successful service. Right now, we're over two million intangible recipes. We will add intangible references, later opinions. Our fellow citizens, for example, will also be able to receive sugar films through intangible prescribing. It is a service that really serves citizens. We are establishing the Communications Register, and here I would like to stand for a moment, because in Article 18(2) we have specifically made it possible for the citizen in JEPs to declare his own phone and other data, in case he does not have an electronic bank or does not have an individual contract with a telecommunications provider. So there is the possibility for him to define the relevant information by his own person. The communication register - it is also important for the citizens who are listening to us to make it clear here - is called on to serve the citizen. For the first time, we have in one place in the state the contact details of each citizen as regards the address of stay, the address of mail, the e-mail address and the mobile phone. This also serves the citizen. To give an example: if a citizen wants to start a subscription to a pay-TV, rather than in the presence of himself to testify to the same documents, to CECE accounts and so on, with his own consent that the private sector, the subscription company in question, for example, can obtain this information. There is therefore no problem here with regard to the protection of personal data. There is certainly a huge improvement in the service of the citizen. I would again say that the citizen would, in any case, take this information to the subscriber, to the telecommunications provider and submit it in due course, which is requested to enable the telecommunications provider, for example, to send the bill to his home. Now, with the consent of the citizen, the telecommunications provider will now be able to collect them electronically. So there is no question, and I think we should all see a little bit of how technology is an ally, how it really helps us make our lives easier. In addition, in this draft law we remove the tails of shame in the EEAS regarding the submission of supporting documents for compensation for treatments and literacy. A procedure which troubles thousands of our fellow citizens, from now on, can be done electronically, the relevant documents being submitted electronically. Again, we are using technology, precisely so that we can use and help many thousands of our fellow citizens. In addition, through the implementation of JEPs live we allow citizens to communicate with the JEPs remotely through teleconferencing tools. This alleviates the inequalities, because it really gives solutions to our fellow citizens with motor problems, to our fellow citizens with disabilities, to our fellow citizens, who are in very remote parts of the country and would be difficult and difficult for them to move by physical movement to a JEP. These people are now given the opportunity to communicate with a skilled employee using technology and tools. Finally, with regard to the 5G technologies, because we cannot talk about the digital transformation of the country unless we upgrade the infrastructure, here we are preparing the ground, precisely to go according to the timetable - because this is how we move, with very specific timetables - in the tendering of the spectrum at the end of the year. We will be the only country that will not be delayed, despite the coronary pandemic and will be going according to the schedule in the spectrum auction. Here again, let us say that we live in one of the safest countries in the world, as regards the levels of electromagnetic radiation emission from antennas. We're doing too many checks. The National Atomic Energy Commission is conducting audits at 20% of the antennas. It's a very big percentage. In addition, we have some of the lowest global emission limits. If the limit recommended by the European Union is 100%, we have institutionalised 70% and 60% in the urban fabric. It is the reason why we all complain that we don't have a signal, precisely because the transmission of these antennas is low and the network is not as dense as it should be. So we have to take these into account, because there is a risk of the 5G networks, which, as the Minister mentioned earlier, are using the same frequencies, which are now being used. We must see how, by upgrading infrastructure, we can really become a modern state and not be afraid of technology in this effort. So, as a Ministry of Digital Governance, we will continue with new such services, with new functions to integrate such tools and services into gov.gr, to make citizens' lives better. The country's digital transformation has no party mark. It's a national target. It is a national bet, which we must win. We deserve it better. We are in Europe's evacuations. In 2019, with the data collected by the European Union until September, we retreated a position. We are now only predecessors of Bulgaria over the digital economy and society index. It is time to become a modern state and we will become through many such quick victories and large IT projects, upgrading services, building the digital skills of the population, upgrading infrastructure. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the provisions of the bill. It's for the benefit of the citizens, it's for the benefit of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Liupis Athanasios will be followed by Mr Athanasios from New Democracy, following by Mrs Papadimitriou, Mrs Bryzidou, and then by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill improves and evolves the existing legislation, which was the creation of the previous government. I am referring to the changes made to Law 4487/2017 to enhance the production of audiovisual works. Our country is going through a particular period of time when we are trying to balance between the rules to prevent the transmission of krone and the relaunch of the economy. Today's bill gives considerable incentives for attracting foreign and domestic investments in the audiovisual production sector. With key interventions to the law adopted by the previous government, the necessary steps is being taken to develop this sector, which will bring many benefits to the national economy, and for the first time aid is given for the stage of production - i.e. manufacturing - and technical processing. The limits of eligible expenditure for short films, television series, on documentaries or animation and digital games shall be reduced. When the company cooperates with a Greek company, the process of subsidizing becomes simpler. The application is submitted only by the company that operates in our country. The beneficiaries of the aid are extended and include the production on the initiative of the ERT. It increases from 25% to 35% the total cost, to which the eligible costs for script, music, director, script, two protagonists and producer are covered. The total aid amounts are also increased, as 40% of the value of the eligible costs that a producer can now receive is covered by State aid, even up to 80% of the total cost of production, in the case of a difficult audiovisual project. The present draft law recognises the need to speed up and simplify procedures so that there is an additional incentive for companies wishing to invest in Greece. This reduces most deadlines and provides for a more rapid completion of the application assessment process submitted to the National Audiovisual Centre, the EMEA. In fact, there is also a special provision for the issue of a provisional certificate by the President of the EMEA, so that the company can obtain additional valuable time. At the same time, improvements are made to the tax treatment of these enterprises, creating even more favourable conditions for investment in our country. The second chapter of the bill is that of the daily life of Greek citizens. These are only some of the major changes that we have all seen in the middle of quarantine. The Greek state has modernised and continues to modernise rapidly, proving that everything is a matter of will and intensive work. The success of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which by definition has a difficult task, is undeniable. The intangible prescribing, which was considered very necessary during the pandemic phase, proved to be a very useful process, which Greek citizens used dynamically. This is why it is transformed from an exceptional measure into a permanently available option with a view to disseminating its use. Equally useful, Minister, and what you have just said about intangible and intangible opinions, which will greatly improve the issue of bureaucracy and speed in the health sector. One of the main problematic situations of the health system is how to compensate special health services. These are compensations for special treatments for children or adolescents, mainly speech therapy or treatment, which successively delay too much. Today's bill takes the first step in this direction with the digital registration of the application and the supporting documents that are thus becoming a first attempt to improve the existing system. But there is still much to be done, given the enormous suffering suffered by these parents. Very importantly, the two articles, in 23 and 24, which include the last prerequisite, the version of the CYA, for the interconnection of the National Register of Minors with the National Register of Parents and the National Register of Applicants of Parent Viewers. On this very sensitive subject, speeding up and optimal completion of adoption and assumption procedures, the government has achieved a great deal in the past year. To close, I won't say one more time about the digital jump that we've achieved in the past few months. I would stress something more important, in my view, of changing attitudes. The government is changing, and most importantly, it's changing mentality. He leaves the age of fax, since we had to wait in endless hours even to declare a child’s birth. This change is the most important because we have seen and believed at last that bureaucracy is not invincible. The road opened for more reforms that will bring us closer to Greece that we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u123	The next speaker is Ms Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I could not, ladies and gentlemen, mention as a Greek and as a Christian Orthodox the sad and insulting decision by Mr Erdogan, about the greedy transformation of Saint Wisdom into a mosque. One issue that the government and the Prime Minister themselves are dealing with and one which needs to find us united with all the Greeks. With regard to the draft law under discussion, it is undeniable, ladies and gentlemen, that the reaction and reflexes of the Government and the Ministry of Digital Governance to the new reality created by the pandemic were admirable. Within a few months, with coordinated actions and serious preparation, a huge leap has taken place in the digitalisation of our country, which has so far, unfortunately, been one of the last positions in the European Digital Charter. The relevant Ministry, having as its fundamental authority, that the state is a single set and that must function, put the single digital portal into operation on 21 March, which is now known to all of us gov.gr. The portal began to operate with five hundred services, which were scattered until then and which have already increased in less than three and a half months in five hundred seventy-five, while the aim is for every new public service to be digitised, according to the standards of gov.gr and to be part of it. Intangible prescribing, responsible statements and authorisations, electronic receipt of certificates, such as birth, marriage, baptism, family status and permanent residence, digital driving diplomas, electronic registrations, kindergartens, are only some of the services that have found huge resonance, recommending a real revolution on our country's data so far. The figures and statistics, as presented by the relevant ministers, speak for themselves. Within such a short period of time, we had over two million intangible prescriptions, two hundred thousand authorisations, four hundred three thousand responsible statements, more than thirty thousand digital drivers and almost eighty-four thousand e-learnings. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, show not only the size of the work done, but also the need for our fellow citizens finally to get rid of bureaucracy, tails and time-consuming transactions with the public. And frankly, they deserve many congratulations to the Minister of Digital Governance and to the entire Ministry's leadership and the officials of the Ministry, for the results they have brought to date and which are a real national reserve in the effort to digitalise our country. This excellent work also continues with the arrangements of this draft law, which, on the one hand, forms a favourable environment for attracting foreign and domestic audiovisual producers and, on the other, contains a number of provisions to strengthen digital governance. In particular, Article 13 provides that intangible prescribing is now established by law and becomes permanent. And as the Minister announced earlier and intangibles will now be included in this function. This is a service of particular importance, particularly for vulnerable groups, the elderly and the long-term sufferers, who can now have the recipe without having to go to the hospital. Also, in Article 14, parents of children who perform lodgements, ergonomic treatments and other special treatments will now be able to submit all necessary supporting documents to pay the corresponding costs, through the single digital portal, a regulation with a particular social profile, speeding up the whole process and addressing these children and their families with due respect. In addition, according to Article 15, citizens will now be able to obtain their diplomas in digital form from the country's Higher Education Institutions and the IAEA, as well as to request their transmission to public bodies. A new service that saves people time and puts an end to the phenomenon of fake diplomas. Moreover, as the Minister pointed out to us, digital governance strengthens the principle of equality and constitutes an impediment to corruption, because the machine cannot corrupt it. I could not, however, refer to the extremely innovative and useful regulation for the operation of the Live JEPs. Thus citizens will be able to serve by the JEPs, via video call, without requiring their physical presence. This is a groundbreaking service, which, among other things, will certainly get rid of the JEPs. And on this point, I would also like to address my fellow Members, that we too should set a similar example in order to include us in the operation of digital signatures as Members of this House and to congratulate the services of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, in less than four months' time, the government has managed to cover enough of the valuable ground that we had lost to international digital competition. This, however, in no way justifies any reassurance. The effort for the digital reconstruction of our country continues and is national. There is no political controversy there. The arrangements of this draft law, the permanentisation of intangible prescribing and referrals, the electronic service of the citizens from JEPs, the e-certification of degrees by the IAEA and IAATAP, are another step, yet another one, which must be supported by all of us, and as we already know, it is before the gates and other important initiatives, with more important than all the new Digital Governance Code. Ladies and gentlemen, if Greece wants to become competitive, achieve sustainable economic growth, create new jobs and actively improve its business environment, the road is one and it is digital. That is why all the political forces must be partners in the great national effort to transform our country's digitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u125	The next speaker is Mrs Brysidou Friday from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law comes to supplement and improve a law passed two years ago, as well as to bring new articles supplementing and assisting the country's digital governance. The Ministry deals with this sector, which is necessary, is modern, needs our country and is also a stepping-up, in order to approach modern European countries. The first part of this bill refers to the rules and financial support for audiovisual works. A chapter which has to do with both art and culture in our country, with an area that needs help, which, of course, needs to be done in accordance with rules. So some limits are small, in order to facilitate this route and to finance projects involving films, television films, with a minimum budget limit to be included, from 100 000 to 60 000. When it comes to television production, every incident, the minimum budget is 25 thousand and when a production exceeds a number of incidents, more than 70, it can be financed, bringing together 15 thousand euros. This process is important because it gives our country the opportunity to attract investors. If people from all over Europe come, producers and participate in film production, we have a multi-purpose benefit and economic advantage and our country is advertised, which fulfils the conditions, as it has hugely beautiful areas. As often as such productions have been precedented, it has been a very good result, as it has shown in the promotion of our country and in tourism. In addition, there are areas that have changed character and there are buildings or elements which could be designated or established for the production of such films. It is therefore an important step which must also be taken to ensure jobs and to ensure the progress and development of our country. In the second chapter, this draft law refers to the public's digital service. The important funds for this service have been mentioned on several occasions by Members from Stepa. This is also about intact prescribing, where during the health crisis we have reached the two million recipes. This has shown that it is important for the citizen to be served in a difficult period and in a time of crisis, but it is also more generally useful. It is useful because the citizen earns time, gains safety because he can easily approach what he needs in relation to his health. It serves in the best possible way, and that is progress. It is also possible to compensate parents for special treatments in their children. Of course, this can be done relatively easily with this methodology without needing their selfish presence, without suffering and without spending time and money. It is also an important chapter. Also, many documents and certificates using the digital service method were able to reach the people's hands quickly. Many individual steps have been taken in this area. Also important and worthwhile are the proposal to modernise and organise the Ministry, as well as the Secretariat of Civil Protection, where a programme is being carried out with a good methodology, so that we can reach high-quality services. Here I would like to raise a few objections that have been raised by the Qualified Opposition for the persons who will be serving these services. I would like to mention that above human life and our debt to protect human life, it does not exist. Therefore, all means and appropriate persons must be used to achieve it and to have the best possible effect. Indeed politically it cannot win a government if it takes off 10 or 15 people. A government wins or loses when there are thousands of unemployed and does nothing for all of them, when human life is at stake, it cannot save human life and we have victims. Because the citizen, when he has a government and a competent ministry, expects to think, take care of, organise to protect him. In this respect, the relevant Ministry and the amendments tabled by the Government are also in progress. Also, our country to overcome the economic crisis must be modernised in many areas. Digital governance is a chapter in which we can achieve it. No heavy industry is required. There is no need for things that our country does not have. They need scientists. He needs an organization. We need political will. The previous period has shown that the relevant Ministry has this possibility and can work very well. So let us dare at all levels and support this Parliament as a whole, because we will be able to take the step forward, we will be able to support our country, fight unemployment and export these services so that we can also recover financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u127	The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very little about this bill, as Mrs Adamopoulou did it on behalf of Mera25 in the best way. I, listening to her at least, understood everything the government would not want - we understand. Let us start with the good news of this draft law. The good news, in our reading, is firstly the strengthening of domestic production of audiovisual works and the attraction of international producers who can actually bring various benefits to a wide range of workers, from artists to the technical and many other branches, which, as you all know, are very barbarically affected by the outbreak of the coronary pandemic. However, can we only be very cautious when we see what others are in the eligible investments? - television series and production. I think that should be expected if we consider who own the television channels in the country - you know what I mean - in the more parasite group of oligarchy, of course. And considering how the New Democracy Government constantly invents new methods of subsidizing these media, these natural orders of the oligarchs with warm money. You know, there is a joke among the Greek people that all the news programs, i.e. all the news of all public or private channels, contain one and the same product of placement and that this product is no longer from the New Democracy party. The single digital portal of public administration - we believe it to be a problem - keeps the ownership status of such a critical public and private software, in which they are fully reflected and up-to-dately a large number of citizens. If, therefore, the property model on this software is blurred and not clearly under public ownership control, then we can find ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the dystopia of large multinational computers, who will have undertaken the work outsourced by the public, finally own the databases with a multitude of data bases of all citizens and all residents of this country. From the third chapter we stand in particular in Article 17, which establishes the National Civil Communications Register. Its aim is to maintain the narrow and wider public sector a common database containing citizens' contact details. At first reading, this seems to be moving in a positive direction. However, since the times, as we all know, are evil and things are particularly dangerous, these identifiable and up-to-date elements of citizens' communication - that is, the address, e-mail address, fixed and mobile phone - can be available to credit institutions, of course, following the consent of the individual citizen, as the provision says. The agreement, however, is requested in the fine papers of what will be signed by a citizen. So we fear, and we say this directly, that these articles, these provisions are directly related to the HERAKLIS project. What plan "HERAKLIS"? You know that better than I do. What you have not been answering for four months, we ask you, we are pressing you. Tell us at least that we are talking nonsense, that you will not give, you will not give 12 billion in due time, not too late from now on, to the predators! In this respect, therefore, the 'HRAKLIS' project with the 'parallel funds' and the pressure of telephone calls, conventional mail and electronics, but also with out-of-court or payment orders - you know that the predator funds are being sent to the borrowers - in the years of the ten-year crisis, several borrowers have changed contact details only - I assure you - in order to avoid the suffocating pressure of these tax collectors. Therefore, there was obviously a gap in communication between the claiming party and the borrower. In this provision, we fear that your Government, which is the mandate of the funds, as it can be proved, will never answer us for the "parallel funds" and you will not stop the project "HRAKLIS" with an act of legislation, the government of the funds will give them the solution. What solution? The solution to the funds. In fine letters, the borrower will give his consent. Therefore, the bank will also have access to the current updated contact details of the borrowers. They're going to be "sucked" that is. Finally, Chapter IV raises organisational procedural issues of the Ministry, such as the administration of the Coordination Service, the Single Digital Gate and other positions in the Ministry. Judging - and with all your respect, I say this, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling - by the twelve-month experience of the Mitsotakis governance, I think we are afraid that this is a classic globe. I mean, dolls. In closing this part of my speech, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy Government is able to achieve even a bill relating to the digitisation of services, with the aim of facilitating citizens, including certain arrangements or omiting certain clear clarifications, in the end aiming not to serve - we fear - the citizens, but the parasitic oligarchs from all over the world, as, as we know, the parasitic oligarchs have no borders, they have no home. Fortunately, at least, that the parasitic oligarchs have religion and indeed, what a strange, all the same. They think it's hot in money. What about the coroner? I say this because we are concerned about the institutions at Mera25, as the situation seems to be out of control, but above all because we are starting to get angry, I must tell you, with the government's communication tactics, in particular Mr. Petsa and other ministers who come out and make statements, which have a common denominator. Who's that denominator? Unfortunately, we, the Greek people again, because we are unacceptablely unsuccessful, unacceptably congressive, because we are unacceptablely irresponsible in a few words and go to fairs or because we are on planes and we are in there densely populated or because, in any case, we are bad children, we will bring back the problem that you have solved in the country. Look, if we want to be serious, we have to answer a question from now on, why do we accept that things have been relaxed and worryed: Who relaxed things, ladies and gentlemen? Is the relaxation from the sky? Was the Greek people, who have been a model for five months throughout the earth, and suddenly became an example to avoid? Let's get serious. Things have been relaxed by the Greek Government. And you know what? I get it. It relaxed them, because it really has a very powerful dilemma, which anyone would have ruled. We never do micropolitics from Mera25. You will notice that. He has a strong dilemma between the economy and the pandemic. We know that if we are to avoid thirty-five thousand dead from the pandemic, we have a million dead of starvation, this is worse choice and worse performance. We understand that. It is, however, extremely irritating for us to see a series of ministers indicting the Greek that he allegedly begging. And I'm telling you right away why he didn't beg, but you begged him. Because you said - here we are, we have no goldfish memory - that once the air travels are reopened, there will be gaps, either blank rows, either one in three spaces will be empty, or one triad will be empty. Result? Once the airlines and the famous hug, with whom we are working and who will bring a million tourists to Greece, said, "I am not going back in my foot in Greece, if you are such a meticulous country," the Minister who is responsible went out immediately and said, "Let those who want to enter the planes go on board, let them be ticked with me, I am pressed on planes." The ship was lifted immediately and said, "Now, children, here on the planes are treaded with, I press you, on the boats why are we taking so many measures?" You said, "Okay, we'll make the wrong eyes, relax there too." You told the restaurants that they'd be four and have two meters away. In one month it's been six. Now there's no number, it could be sixteen, one on each other. Are the fairs bothering you all of a sudden, when this is the situation? You know what? I understand all the restaurants, all the bar owners and all the people working on the focus. They'll have to survive and they won't survive. And they won't survive, not because they keep the distance measures and have fewer customers, they won't survive because your government's policy is not to survive. It's a policy that people tell and laugh at, that you look at, you won't pay until the end of the year, no interest on loans, no direct taxes, I won't raise you anything, but at the end of the year you will pay it all together. To an entrepreneur, large or medium-sized, who has had a zero turnover for five months and will continue to have from 0% to 20% of his turnover in the next few days, if his business is touristic, then be with the help of the good God to reach 20%, to tell him a government that will send him the bill at the end of the year or at the beginning of next, is any policy that will not lead him to turbulence? It's some policy that doesn't lead him to say, it's okay, let's have a little crowd in my business to get out this month, have to pay the electricity, the water and the phone? So it is your policy that is inconsistent. Stop, at least, struggling us for relaxing. We didn't relax, you guys relaxed us. The cars were once, they became two later, and then it was the terrible irrationality that we all had for two months in our cars three more, except for the cab drivers, who are bad kids, apparently, and they only had two. When we now told you that this is totally absurd, because only the taxi drivers live in this business, we just ride or go to our jobs, but taxi drivers live, you finally decided with a month's delay to equate drivers and taxi owners with us citizens. In order not to let the issue of the coronary completely go, we are also very concerned, because, despite everything that has been spread, the reality is that you did not hire doctors and health professionals at all. And if the new wave doesn't come, as we all fear, early winter, but now it comes dawn, i.e. in August, then it really will appear. It will seem, in fact, that we are talking about fewer than five hundred people, whom you have hired under a contract of specific time. I mean, you haven't even taken them permanently. It'll look like nothing's happened. We will also wait to see about digitisation. Now, I would like to ask you something that has been of concern to me for several days. How many parties, do you think, should the Greek Parliament have? I think he has six. Do you think he has five or even worse four? Because whoever's watching public TV else understands. I am not talking about private television, the parasitic folklors who have private channels want there to be only one party in the Greek Parliament and they will show only one. We said, they contain all the news of product placement, and the product is New Democracy. But there's public television too. Public television is based on the taxation of all of us, it is my own television, to tell you this, it is also of 3.5%, it is also our two hundred and four thousand compatriots, who have had the courage or daring, for us, to vote Mera25. How do you see them? They're not civilians? Are they nationals? What are they? Are they enslaved? I mean, the rest of you who voted for you or the Change Movement or SYRIZA, of course, do you think that not everyone wants to be informed about the other parties? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes. I say this because if you see a news release, you will immediately see that this is stable, it always ends at most - very in the Greek Solution. And to be honest with the Greek Solution and my colleagues there, many times there is not even the fifth party of the Greek Parliament. You know, I'll tell you about this, which is a secret. I said it in 2015, but the parasitic canals didn't hear me. You believe or anyone who does that believes that the Greek people will forget Mera25 so, they will forget that there are some who resist this country, they will forget that there are some who have been to defend it. No, no, no, no, This is not the case with the Greek people. Because then, if that were the case, it would have made 65% 'yes' in the referendum. All the same channels that disappear the Mera25 are the same channels that told us about the Martians will come if we dare to vote 'no'. What the parasitic canal owners have not understood, nor - I fear - the political leadership of the New Democracy is that it is now reflective, what private channels say is a lie by definition more than half the Greek people. Why? Because they said so. Who are they? They are the ones who bankrupt us, they are the ones who are stealing us, and they are the ones who are trying to rid us, guide us and manipulate us decades now. I think it would be useful for the government to understand and leave a so-called impartiality. It'll be good, believe me. You are constantly giving them - the citizen, I mean, the Greek average - the signal that we have not betrayed yet, that we have not yet become part of the political establishment, that we are still fighting for it. Listen to an experienced person’s advice on TV. Tell your friends, parasitic canals and public TV to put a little Mera25 on, so the world starts thinking, they're broken too. I will immediately close with the wonderful Prime Minister, whom I heard - and it was, indeed, impressive - to reply to Mrs Phofi Gennamas last week, saying things that were very, very interesting. He said it was an amazing cut, an institutional cut for the country, the removal of the 100% tax advance. Really? Really? Now? Now, of course. Anyone who has common sense will understand that since he had no income, he cannot pay the taxes on the revenue he had in the previous year, where there was no coronary. The point was that this incision has been made, Prime Minister, last year, you have just taken over the government. Then we'd have some kind of development in this country. There is no more anti-development measure. Also, Prime Minister - and I shall conclude with that, Mr President, because I do not want to exhaust your patience - it is too late for all our entrepreneurs - small, medium-sized and large - when at the end of the year or at the beginning of next year they will come to them - I said it beforehand, but I will repeat all the payments. This thing doesn't make any sense. I mean, really, think it doesn't make any sense. People need liquidity. Also, it is necessary to stop the story of private channels which obey this government - even worse if the government obeys these private channels, but I hope that it is the first one, that it is so small a complication and not much more - for the wonderful tourism that returns overhaul. Our islanders laugh. I'm talking to Skyros, I'm talking to Ithaca, I'm talking to Rhodes. People cry there and laugh at the picture, the magical picture on the TV. Television shows a return of polluting tourists, which is nowhere, except perhaps, from the expression that they want coronary. And I'm not saying that for the Answer, but it's really a little funny. Those who say they go on their own for tests - I don't know if you know - these data are not given and are not counted on the overall result of how many people have suffered today. We don't know how many people were sick today, because they're excluded from those numbers that the ministry gives, those who voluntarily go to do tests. Does that make any sense? What I'm telling you is, I'm afraid you have no programme for the second cycle of the pandemic, just like you had no programme for the national economy. Thank you so much for putting up with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Gregoriadis. We continue with the list of speakers. I invite Mrs. Theano of Fire to Step. Then Mr. Cappatos, Mrs. Kefala and the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, will follow. Every three speakers should take it. Do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I too would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I give my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u132	Good, in your place, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, Mr. Janakopoulos will speak. But you will also then be waiting for three colleagues to speak, and then you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u133	I have no objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u134	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I have, of course, been covered at the outset by our rapporteur, Mario Katsis, and so I am not going to speak at first, but in specific articles and amendments to the bill. I shall refer specifically to Articles 23 and 24 on assumption and adoption, which I consider to be extremely important. There has been a lot of discussion in the committees. I have to analyse again what is happening in these articles and why, for these articles, I believe, there is a problem and the government, even at the last minute, had to withdraw them. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Why, then, is there a problem in Articles 23 and 24? Because they are about the most sensitive part of the assumption and adoption. It's a very difficult law. It took us two years to fix him. And it's a tough law, because it's all electronic. In other words, it is not the legislative framework and then an electronic system. The law cannot be applied without the electronic system. It's a package they say. And that's why? Firstly, in order to stop corruption, the complexity and all of this system by which you have once made six to eight years to get a child, while by law this process ends in eight to twelve months. Secondly, because children now acquire an electronic file and so the tragedy of their origin is over, that is, the search for the roots when they are eighteen years old. Thirdly, because we found a system too easy to unlock the tails they expected for the suitability report. Fourthly, because we introduce parental education with standardised protocols. Furthermore, it is a law that embraced the entire Greek people and awaited, after the start of the electronic system, that what they had heard would be implemented. No, no, no, no, New Democracy came and froze the law for eight months. In these eight months, the Prime Minister did not forget to inaugurate him. December 2019 - that is, we must be totally ridiculous! - Does the Prime Minister of the country inaugurate a law already inaugurated? And he inaugurated him in the Zappeion. The law kept out of service. What for? Why didn't you move on to train the trainers who would train parents? Why didn't you train them? I should like to tell you why: because in order to make this start, the ERASY, the supreme body supervising the assumption, was needed. And you wanted to change him, because you didn't like the ones we put on. Fair enough. My problem isn't there. Oh, it took you eight months to change the RESANY and all these people and the children waited for eight months? Anyway, that's what's going on. And we get to the fine time when the infamous system has moved on to the children's online files, the electronic files have been "done" in the national files, and the electronic files of the prospective parents and contractors have also arrived in the National Register and are about to match the prospective foster parent with the child. What then is the system on its own? He doesn't want an intervention. It takes the child's first file - in turn - which has been "uploaded" into the national system and is looking for which of the parent's files is the right basis for what the parent also asked. And he says: I found for the first file the following two, three cases where they are appropriate. Then the social worker and the institution, where the child is, whether it is public or private, as are the social worker who has done the parent's research, are in agreement. "Is this match right?" he says to each other. If yes, there's a bell coming to the candidate couple, climbing up and doing this job. There was no need for an amendment to the law. Articles 23 and 24 amend this law at this point. You didn't have to. And they didn't need a second opening. Because they were reopened by the Prime Minister this time in "Mother". I had gone last year and had inaugurated the law electronically with Achcioglou. It's okay, the Prime Minister has gone again. I don't care about that. This means how good this law is, how good does the Prime Minister and all your communication staff know that this law sells to society and say, he will be inaugurated every six months. Okay. But listen to the ridiculousness that comes. Ten days before this ridiculousness happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u136	Why do you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u137	I'm not talking about the Prime Minister. I'm talking about other ridiculousness. The Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mrs Michaelidou, sends circular - ten days before today, the law has not yet been passed - which specialises what must be done in this story. What does that mean, dear? Three things could mean. Or Mrs Michaelidou and her advisers had no idea about the law and advised her and put two articles in use - that is the good version - or the Secretary-General is illegal. How does it explain the law without the two articles going through it? So the previous law was sufficient. So it's illegal, or there's a fraud. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. Maybe two.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u138	Let's shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u139	Or there's a vagina. I think there's a pervert, because you're trying at the most sensitive point to get legal persons into private law, so that they can quickly do it and do it catchy. That's just really you know what it means? That if it happens quickly, children usually in these cases - which we had on the outside many times - in countries that I can tell you, because we are very well-student in this - are unfortunately being seen. So they're coming back to the foundations, because the parents, one good morning, they've done this whole glue thing, they're coming back. If that happens, this is the destruction of the children. That's why I'm saying, Mrs. Michaelidou got a digital portfolio. All her actions are digital. He will be briefed on what will mean digit. It has a portfolio exclusively digital from the beginning to the end, because we wanted to put an end to the customer relationship and corruption. All benefits are paid to OPEKA. It's all in digital form. It's over. That wasn't ahead. So let's get it up to you, so let's go further. We will vote against these two articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u140	Finish it, my colleague. At 6 p.m. we have to hand over the Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u142	There are many speakers and the parliamentary representatives have not finished. Some people won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u143	Yeah. In two hours you'll be done. As you know very well, the amendment to Article 2 is the vouchers given to infants. This amendment should have been taken out for a month and a half. Oh, no, no, no, no, There is now a huge problem in mothers, one with these vouchers. You'll see. In addition to the date, you have put a provision which is in a positive direction. See? I'll say good words. In other words, it's about taking voucher and the mothers of the public. That's a very good thing. This is a positive direction. We had it in our election programme too. You can see it. But you've got a voucher of 180 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u144	You're done, my colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u145	This is a mistake, because the average voucher is EUR 210. Trust me. I know all the numbers on the outside. What does that mean? That the mothers of the public for whom you are making the amendment - and good - 15 thousand such mothers - are so budgeted for the 30 million you put, are fifteen thousand such mothers - will have trouble paying out of their pocket the rest that you did not calculate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u148	Listen, you see, I insist, because there are many speakers, they have not spoken to three parliamentary representatives, and at 6 p.m. the Chamber must be delivered. You realize that this is at the expense of other colleagues. There are protests, they come to the Conference of Presidents, we say that the working hours are observed and they are not observed. The last three speakers are a question of whether they will be able to do so. Mr Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, speaking of digital transformation, I would like to say to Mr Erdogan that whatever digital effort and to do whatever digital means and use whatever electronic means he uses to cover the hagiography and mosaics, he will not be able to cover them. All the violence they have done in the past to cover up, they have not succeeded, because today everything is there. There is the Holy Sophia, which I must tell him is the heart of Christianity, the heart of Orthodox Christianity and of all Christianity. So as long as this heart exists there, it will live and operate and emits light for Christianity. All his efforts will fall into the void. If you remember, the Turks have built against Blue Jamie, which is a bad imitation - if you like - of Agia Sophia. It cannot succeed in having the symbolism that Agia Sophia has. And I'm just finishing up on this. As much as President Erdogan does, we Greeks and all Christians will always make our cross. And I secretly inside St. Wisdom. Hide, or I'll be arrested differently. I'm coming to our point. Digital transformation. The digital transformation of the structure and services of the state is a debate that has been intensified in recent years. This finding is based on a number of reasons and processes, notably the rapid development of technology, the need for the State to monitor and adapt to it and, of course, the economy of time and costs which this transformation favours. In the series of issues that the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance cures, I chose to refer to two. The first concerns the public's digital interface with citizens and businesses and the second concerns the integration of the digital process into the institutions of adoption. Regarding the digital interface, the exchange of state information with citizens and businesses, as well as public services, we attach particular importance to the role of the single digital portal as a good channel of interoperability. It does not mean a citizen at the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution operating as a clerk between public services simply because the state is unable to digitally converging its organisation. With the establishment of the Single Digital Portal, a number of services relating to the citizen are digitised and communicate with one another. The intangible, for example, recipe and intangible referral are handled and performed exclusively electronically in the primary health care system. The application and submission of documents for compensation for specific and individual health services shall be made electronically, while the citizen shall draw from the information systems of the Greek IAEA and IAEAP the information attesting to the acquisition of his or her qualifications and transmit them to public sector bodies or legal persons of his choice. In order to strengthen this framework, the Single Digital Gate Coordination Service is set up. Subordinate to the Secretary-General of Digital Governance and Simplification of Procedures, it is responsible for systematically monitoring and upgrading the quality of service of citizens in their transactions with the public administration. In this way, the Ministry of Digital Governance is able to supervise the state's digital transformation, having an effective position in monitoring, evaluating and improving the planned intervention. As far as policy on assumption and adoption is concerned, the bill introduces an innovation that gives rise to the debate on the digital transformation of the state, a particular social character. This is the interconnection of the National Register of Candidate Parents and the National Register of Candidate Contractors with the National Register of Minors in the context of an integrated information system for acceptance and adoption. With this regulation we ensure the fullest and most effective application of Law 4538/18 on the institution of admission, while at the same time promoting the full registration of children, as well as the introduction of a specific, uniform and transparent procedure for linking them to candidate parents for admission. It is proof that the fruits which digital transformation offers as a process also concern the social state, since an intervention that is favourable to removing obstacles and speeding up procedures in such a sensitive area of policy can only be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, during my brief speech I have tried to demonstrate that policies promoting digital transformation can have a positive impact on a number of areas that are different from each other. From the service of citizens and the functioning of the public to health, education and adoption procedures, the road to the digitisation of the work concerned shall be evaluated by a positive figure. It is effective because it affects the reduction of the time required. He's an economic worker because it costs less by paying more. Finally, it is social because it reduces inequalities and promotes family cohesion. That is why I am putting myself in a positive position in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u150	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, especially for keeping time. Mrs Heads of State from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u151	What's the turn, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u152	As I saw the list of speakers, after Mrs Kephala Mr.Janakopoulos, a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, will speak after Mr. Giannoulis, Mr. Tortomas and Mr. Callianos and then Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening for years to the possibilities that technology gives us and how the state will manage to develop and exploit all those tools, systems and applications that will work to reduce bureaucracy, waiting times and eventually make citizens' lives easier. It was only last September when the Prime Minister from the step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition said that the 21st century demands first of all a digital state, quickly effective and productive, for the benefit of the citizen. This personal objective is carried out through the relevant Ministry of Digital Governance. In fact, in the midst of a pandemic, the Ministry has gone ahead with simplifying and speeding up procedures and functions to reach the goal even faster. We are coming today to strengthen the digital reform effort with the bill we are discussing. With moves that maximize incentives and minimise bureaucracy, the procedures for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in our country are simplified. We are promoting the provision of digital public services through the single digital portal of public administration. We are strengthening digital governance through procedures that facilitate the digital contact of the public with citizens and businesses. The principle was made by the statement of the newborns within the maternity ward. Registers and registers shall be updated electronically. The newborn acquires direct AMKA and insurance capacity and automatically moves the procedures for the performance of the birth allowance. The continuation is not impressive for the Greek data, as the pandemic has pushed the digital state. And I mention features: The state digital portal gov.gr was put into operation. At this first stage, the citizen has access to more than five hundred services and certificates which so far have been provided in the JEPs and in various services. Intangible prescribing: Citizens can receive digitally the prescriptions of medicines issued by doctors via sms and by email. Half a million fellow citizens have entered the system and over two million recipes have been issued in this way. The electronic service for unpaid squares was also activated. That platform shall operate safely without requiring supporting documents and shall be user-friendly. It is expected to be the boulder and other similar actions of the relevant ministries, as the government's aim is to dismantle the co-existence in hundreds of OTAs from the entry of property owners. Television - education: And, despite difficulties, it is a reality. This is a process that was, in addition, able to exploit the real dimension of education at a time when schools remained closed. Ladies and gentlemen, following the brief reference to the country's digital leaps, I return to this bill with which we want to help the immediate and effective relaunch of the audiovisual industry, creating a friendly environment aimed at all the factors. We want to attract more domestic, but also foreign production of audiovisual works. Let me remind you that our country has been a producer hive in the past. ‘Mama Mia’, ‘Alexis Zorbas’, ‘Navrone cannons’ and how many more. Let us take advantage of the fact that Greece with its beauties is a natural cinema studio in itself. Last, tents from the bourgeois production of "Born to be murded" starring Denzel Washington were shot in Epirus. In Ioannina the lake of sighs was also turned with Irini Papa and Andreas Barkoulis. But also from the Perma Cave of Ioannina, great actors have passed before for film shooting. I am making this report, ladies and gentlemen, to show that the spectacle industry has history and adapted to the new technological, economic and health data can find appropriate ground and develop in Greece. A series of measures which are reflected in the draft law institutionalises and defines this direction in both parts of films, but also short films, television series with documentary content or cartoon content. We support the production of daily television series with a view to promoting industry's extroversion into a competitive international environment. In the second chapter of the bill under Article 15, eDiplomas is introduced through the single digital portal. This service enables any person concerned to obtain the information attesting to the acquisition of a qualification and to request their transmission to public bodies. We are thus significantly restricting the phenomenon of counterfeiting. We facilitate the digital interface of the public with citizens and businesses. We recommend the single digital portal coordination service aimed at continuously upgrading the quality of service of citizens and ensuring their confidence in their transactions with the public administration. We create the National Civil Communications Register, a central basis for registering all citizens' contact details. This basis will update the relevant data of the public information systems including the Local Government I and II Bodies and their legal persons and businesses. We shall simplify the procedure for the submission and receipt of evidence of information and the statement of debt. Since November 2020, all public bodies have to take this into account by interoperability of their information systems without requiring their paper presentation. Finally, we interconnect the National Register of Minors with the National Register of Applicants of Parents and the National Register of Applicants of Applied Parents to speed up the relevant procedures for admission and adoption always with priority to safeguard the interests of children to be taken or adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the positive response to the bill of all the stakeholders. Its acceptance is widespread. It is true that the global health crisis has prompted us to act quickly and forcefully towards the digital modernisation of our country. No evil things of good. Most of the phenomena of the bureaucracy and suffering of our fellow citizens can only be eliminated through a digital transformation of the operation of the state. Candidate investors should also see the modern digital and less bureaucratic face of Greece, a Greek that jumps to that level. It opens up in front of us a new digital reality that came to stay and then the coronary and facilitate our lives in tomorrow's new reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Head. Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will not dwell in detail on the arrangements of the bill. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Marios Katsis, has highlighted the main problematic points in our opinion and has very clearly analysed the criticisms that concern and the reduction in eligibility conditions for the aid of television producers, which, in our opinion, is a reduction of EUR 30,000 to EUR 15 000 as a criterion for the eligibility of a television production for State aid, we consider and are right, I believe, that it actually takes away the incentive for genuinely quality productions, which was the meaning of this regulation of SYRIZA. He also spoke about the provisions which, as necessary, promote transparency, promote opaque procedures, such as the abolition of double controls on the investments and financing of the EMFF. Why is the ministerial signature abolished? I don't think she's that burdensome. We have the assessment that this provision is rather a white cheque for things that will be deprived of political control. And of course, as far as the second section of the bill is concerned, I have to be very clear. We believe that the arrangements are rousphetological and the arrangements for the fifteen experts, but also the arrangements on the substance that make changes to the structure and organization of the Ministry by way of derogation, since it was first decided that the structure that you legislated was ineffective. And where was it ineffective? Right to the points that SYRIZA had raised when you had taken that legislative initiative. But you will allow me, Minister, because it is not just about you, it is a common practice of the government of Mr Mitsotakis - to speak shortly later on about the opacity, about the rumours, about the country's depletion operation, which I think is introducing us into a completely new period of institutional degeneration. Before that, however, I have to make a few comments on the political developments in recent days and a few points. And I am obliged, because it is now confirmed every day that the government only has to accumulate deadlocks in all areas of politics, which it then attempts to overcome by authoritarianism, by provocations, by a mollusc and by a suffocating control of the administrative and state structures, as I said just now. Cumulate deadlocks in foreign policy, accumulate dead ends in the economy, accumulate dead ends and tackle pandemic. But I am starting with foreign policy, absolutely timely. I would like to say to you this: just yesterday, on Thursday, Mr Varvitsiotis, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, speaking to the 'Real FM', made the following statement. I am not going to enter a reasonable national bid and lionism, such as Mr. Vorides today, who was asking for the Museum of Kemal Ataturk to be turned into a Museum of Genocide of Hellenism, and Mr. Petsas came out and picked him up in barn, because every time you come into a dead end to foreign policy, you start something of lionism, some national bids, you start something "the rest are traitors, only we defend the country and everything else". I am not going to stand there, and I do not think that is one - if you would like - sensible criticism or one criticism that can take the debate a little further. Do you know where I'm standing? Mr Varvitsiotis, once again - on Thursday he gives an interview and makes the following statement: Speaking on the radio 'Real FM', the Deputy Minister assessed that in the end - they open in introductory terms - 'will not dare to do so'. Who won't dare do what? Mr. Erdogan turning St. Sophia into a mosque. Note what this shows: This shows that the government really does not know what is happening to foreign policy, is completely lost control. You're prosecuting without a compass. You go without a plan. You don't have a perception of reality. You are completely out of reality. It is not possible for the Deputy Foreign Minister of the country one day before the Erdogan movement to come out and make this public statement. Do you understand that? Do you understand what you are showing, what image you are giving of the diplomatic and political readiness of the government, not to us, not to the opposition, not to the Greek Parliament, at international level? What image is this? So, as I said before, when you are in the face of the consequences of this unexistent policy, this total lack of political design and strategy, we begin the lionisms, we begin the "senting armoured", which Mr Georgiadis said, "to do the Ataturk Museum of the Genocide of Hellenism" and various such graphics. Come on, come on, come on! This is not a government image! We told you for eight months to seek to implement the measures decided by the summit last summer and to forge indifferently and say "we are an predictable ally and so" - let us say - "we will be able to improve the country's diplomatic effectiveness". You're on a very dangerous path. What about the economy? What can anyone say? A 20% wage reduction, you gave the signal by law that you voted on, you came here and lifted your hand to reduce private sector wages by 20% to the firms affected and closed down. And you gave the signal and it was a 20% reduction and a rotating job to participate in the "CONTROL". In the end, three thousand enterprises entered the 'Cooperation' programme, but 20% reduction in the private sector became horizontally across all enterprises. You gave the signal! What can I say? To launch unemployment? To deregulation the labour market? For the lack of support for business? And of course, what about the unthinkable relics in tourism? Unthinkable! Inconsistencies, irresponsibility, not only in tourism, but also in the management of the pandemic. And in this climate we still have the government to take responsibility for rejuvenating the pandemic to the citizens. Mr Gregoriadis has already told you very well, the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25. Who's responsible for relaxing? The civilians relaxed by themselves? Did they relax on their own? I wonder who is responsible for the checks at the gates of the country. Who made the decision to relax measures in the catering and shopping stores? The citizens made the decision, or did you give a specific line - for why? - to avoid - and we understand that - possible deeper impacts on the economy. However, the point is that you have done nothing to support businesses, you have done nothing to support workers, you have turned down the labour market, and now you are in this difficult situation, you have to relax the measures, and you have two, three recessions, and we have not reached 15%. Do you understand what you're doing? Do you realize how huge responsibility you have for all this? So here we have a complete reversal of the situation and priorities that the government had three months ago. And why do we have a complete reversal of all this relaxation, which you are actually orchestrating? Because you have not taken any measures to support the economy and now you are in front of you what we have been telling you! And what's the answer? What is the answer to all these accumulated political and social deadlocks? Known response to the Right: Admiralism, construction of the interior enemy, suffocating control of the state and of course, porcupine and mud with good media cooperation, which you have taken care of during the pandemic, to dive with state money. Admiralism and inner enemy! After the Chrysochoids Provocae last Thursday - who Minister for Citizen Protection actually orchestrated the demonstration's dismantling operation - we come and confirm that the main priority at the moment of your government is the creation of an internal enemy. And you know how we're confirmed? With the amendment you have made to the NSA. You are bringing an amendment here. Of course, I would like to ask the multigrapher - he told us that he has written twenty thousand pages - of course, Mr Gerapeitris - to tell him that the pages do not go with the pound, but in any case let us leave that - the most prestigious, therefore, Mr Gerapitris, who is, Mr Pierrakakis, to come here to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u156	It's me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u157	What are you? Will you sign the amendment? You sign it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u158	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u159	You agree. Where's the signer coming to tell us? Where have you guys seen this written, that the accelerator doesn't come and someone else comes because he happens to be a Minister of State? To come here, Mr. Polygraph, to answer the questions that have been asked. Because you know what you're doing? Do you know what you're doing? Transfer the e-intelligence department to the Ministry of Defence. Is that right? And what are you doing? You're turning the NSA into an internal orientation service. The NSA will no longer deal with the security of the country. Take this to the Ministry of National Defence and revival the State Intelligence Department. To watch who? And what exactly technological innovations will you bring with these conventions opaque that go through the bill, if there's no e-mail address? What will these technological innovations be? So tell us what? After you've transferred her to the Ministry of National Defence! But you have in mind what it looks like. But you have in mind. Here we are, and I'll see you. I shall end with Mr Hardalia's second amendment. Look out, what's coming to do? We've said it before. He comes to hire posters, without any constitutional procedure, such as passing through the ADP, which can in exceptional cases be done at too fast a rate. Why, though, do we think they'll pass through S.H.I.E.L.D.? Because here these posters come to cover the organic positions of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. Do you understand what you're doing? These are unprecedented things for the Greek public administration. Unprecedented! I hire posters, but I put them in the public service hierarchy, they cover organic positions. Where have you seen these written? Don't you know that's unconstitutional? I don't question the feasibility. I do not question the feasibility and need to cover the organic positions of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, but this is a ruptured carabinato! She's an opaque karabinat! The General Secretariat of Civil Protection is not Mr. Chardalia's company, nor is the state your prey, nor is the State a private company in which you, Mr. Pierracakis, will decide for the fifteen experts, Mr. Chardalias will decide for the twenty-eight posters who will come to serve public services, Mr. Mitarakis will take managers for the Asylum Service from the private economy and will manage administrative services of Migration Policy on his own, without any transparency, without any accountability. It's not a state company to do whatever you want! Nobody gave it to you. Do you keep in mind where you are? Well, come on, come on. Get your ass together! You've literally cut a chain. You think it's your dick right here and you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u160	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u161	Tell us, Mr. Pierracakis, you're laughing, the 5 million euros in direct assignments that were all cut 19,900, 20,000, in three months - in the pandemic, you also found a chance - where did they go? We need a detailed list. Tell us one, one, to come here and answer, 5 million euros in direct assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u162	‘DENMARK’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u163	‘GENERAL’? Five million in direct assignments? And you think you can come here and sell spirits to the Greek people and Greek MPs? Five million in direct assignments in two months? You'll find us across the street. Keep it in mind. And arrogance and self- admiration and laughter and spirit won't come to you good. It'll be time for you to make an account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u165	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. The reason I smile is because where the direct assignments, as you say in the framework of Law 4412/2016, went is reflected in the seventy-four additional services, which were created all over the world and embraced by the intangible prescribing - which you did not - by the responsible statement - that you did not - by the authorisation - that you did not - from gov.gr - which you did not - and we did all of this very quickly. And let me say something on a personal level. The nights that these services were made by all engineers, none of us wondered what one of these engineers thinks, what it is, what it's not. We were all wondering if they knew code and legislation and it was the only thing that we were interested in and if they could do the job. In this context we are increasingly asking for more and more people to come to our side and become charitable in this work, regardless of anything else. And, believe me, there's no other way to make these services. So, you know, it's like a story with the wolf and the shepherd. Watching wolves constantly weakens any argument. There is nothing but the good intention of doing things properly, such as - let me say it - in the NSA, a provision with which I fully agree, there are duplex procedures with OHIM and OHIM and - something very rare - moving this dual procedure from one structure to the other. Usually - we all know it here - the structures are easier to transfer to changes in governments. When it is going on, this shows that there really is a technological concern about how it should be done. Personally, I cannot understand the mechanism by which - because the information is shared - the NSA is transformed, it becomes a CFP, when one structure leaves and, anyway, they share the information. I don't know. John Le Carre, Ian Flemming? I don't know how anyone can imagine. In any case, that is not the intention here. I would also like to say something at a personal level, in terms of both Mr Contolone and the EUPM commander, to whom you criticised when we were opposition - not now, overall - and we had chosen the EUPM to leave him out of some things because in the end there is the core of national sovereignty and national interest. This core must not be trespassed because in some things there is a wider, if you like, dealing or even having to exist. Otherwise, you know, I'm going to stand up to what Mr. Katsis said, that for your day the mythology has revived. Looks like this legacy is going on. It revives the mythology and right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u168	I'll give you the floor for a minute, but there was no staff. Here, you have the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u169	I have a tritology, Mr President. At the house of the hanged man, Mr. Pierracakis, they don't talk about rope. Did you choose to leave the commander of the NSA on our own government outside political controversy? You will forget, of course, that the commander of the NDP in our own governance informed all the political leaders that he had an absolute institutional attitude toward the whole democratic political world. And do you have the courage to come and compare our period of absolute institutional transparency to your own period? Mr. Concolleton, which political leader has informed you, you know? Nobody. Mr. Condulones, do you know that he has entered the NSA - you will know that of course - because you changed the preconditions and removed the condition of the degree? Mr. Condolones, do you know that right now he's not even a public figure? Hasn't a political leader seen him? And are you now coming to give us lessons of openness and institutional seriousness, and indeed on the subject of the EEA? On NSA? You've been a little confused in your mind. You've been a little confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u170	Good, Mr. Janakopoulou, you made the clarification. Okay. The new Lebanese Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA's spokesman spoke of deadlocks, provocations in politics. He was making heavy reports again. It has made a general position on the economy, on tourism, on foreign policy, on the whole range of issues discussed in the broader political dialogue, apart from the substance of the bill, and this demonstrates the lack of arguments to react to what the government brings in Parliament. Once again, Mr Janakopoulos, you have had a crescendo of passion and complaint, without a specific objective and without substantial content. In fact, you have tried to cover up these creepy revelations about the para-state methods of governments, which you have served and for which you are now embarrassingly laughing. You've lost your sleep, and this seems in all your interventions. Instead of raising the tons pointlessly, give answers to the Greek people. Tell your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, that taking political responsibility means testimony, accountability for that time. Stop provoking the intelligence of your opponents in the Chamber and explain to the Greek people how and with what purposes you have been ruling for four and a half years. You have referred again, unfortunately, to you and to the subject of Saint Wisdom. We've been placed, but I'll say it one more time. As regards the subject that has arisen, therefore, I would like to tell you that for us Agia Sophia is a timeless and universal symbol of Orthodoxy and our Byzantine civilisation, a flagship of reference and memory for all Greeks and Greeks, but also for our history and a global monument of reference to Western civilization, the coexistence of different cultures and different religions. Its transformation into a mosque obviously grieves us and hurts us all, both individually and collectively. The government is already putting pressure on the international forums to take measures. Today we have the meeting of the Ministers. Later, then, we will be better placed to discuss, as will tomorrow. But, until then, temperament, homonia, which you do not understand, and coordination of all forces. Obviously, this is not just a Greek-Turkish issue. Obviously it is a big, huge European and international issue. We speak carefully and go nationally and strategically. I thought the press office announcements and your foreign head of department were just naive weekend placements. However, I have seen that your parliamentary representative is coming back and continuing to the same logic. It confirms in essence - and I will make these statements in the Minutes for anyone who has not read them - that SYRIZA is out of place and time away and not from us and from the whole political world in Greece, but from the whole Western civilized world and from its reaction to the issue of Agia Sophia. We urge you again to understand the criticality of situations, to overcome yourself and if you can do so, to think logically and to civilize nationally. As far as the issue of the PPE is concerned, both your rapporteur and your parliamentary representative have used expressions showing that they do not understand the importance of the National Information Service at all. They talked about converting the NSA logistics into CIFs, with no arguments and no substance, just about the communication phantom. You're obviously judging your own perverts. You are judging on the basis of your partner's thoughts, who obviously smashed you in your logic, your co-pilot, of Panos Kammenos. And since you had the nerve, Mr. Janakopoulou, to speak of the courage of the government, I would like to remind you that Mr. Skourletis said publicly on a channel that the NSA was watching the Kammenos - who was your co-pilot - who was watching the journalists and asked the police to arrest them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u172	What do you think, good?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u173	What I'm saying! Read it and come and answer us. The New Democracy, unlike you, is committed to democracy. The NSA is a critical area for micro-party feasibility. It was explained even by Mr Pafilis on your left who is dogmatically opposed to the existence of the NDP. Listen to him if you don't listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u174	You didn't explain it! The Minister didn't even come!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u175	Be serious, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you are, very well or badly, the Civic Opposition. So leave the NSA out of political controversy. As far as the amendment is concerned, as the Minister said before, it is a legally well-documented amendment, adequately covering its regulatory field and fully explaining the essential needs that it comes to meet. The NSA is modernised to meet the new requirements of national security. Its adaptation to a constantly evolving environment is ensured by many - flat threats, where cyber threats have an ever-growing role. If you understand, of course, you do. It provides for the merger of relevant units to ensure maximum coordination. It deals with all these issues of national security and national interests with due seriousness and responsibility, which you obviously do not understand, when you are once again in absolute irresponsible in choosing the wrong field of opposition policy, by raising tons of small-scale populist objectives and, in essence, drawing on sensitive national security issues. As far as the posters are concerned, I think you have received your answers. But with your well-known tactics you have reappeared, saying the same thing again. He explained and gave you the appropriate answers from the State Secretary, who serves as Head of Civil Protection in the best possible way, with his effectiveness and not with hollow words. But tell us, if you bring back and bring back the matter: do you not want critical parts of civil protection to be strengthened? Do you not want to upgrade Civil Protection at all levels? Do you not want the best of the market to be recruited to protect human life? Do you not want a specific plan to be implemented, a implemented policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u176	Who's gonna judge that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u177	Don't you want a strong Civil Protection? What do you want? Come and tell us a little, because unfortunately the sad two years have been completed by Matti, by Mandra. Come and tell us, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We're not you. For us, the disaster in Matti was not a "switch", as you said, which occurred on your shift. It was a disaster that bears responsibility and names. Civil protection is crucial and must therefore be strengthened so that we do not have such images again. But it's a shame that SYRIZA talks about poster. How many of your ministers can say what Mr. Hardalias said, that he is entitled to eight poster, but has only one? For you are the party of Rushphet and Interlocutory, as the Greek people understand. You have increased - and come and tell us in your dentistry - the poster during your governance of 45%, at the cost of Greek taxpayers EUR 120 million, with only 17 million for Mr. Tsipras's Maximos Mansion that set up shops and bazaars.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u178	We question it! Tell us the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u179	You had a strategic advisor in Maximos, Mr. Karanika, who comes today to dull your own places for Agia Sophia and dared to resign Mrs. Glyptzi - Arveler for her comment on the second desolation of the city, doing history lessons in a diverse Greek that makes us all so many decades proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u180	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u181	You appointed friends and relatives in every place in the public sector. You appointed people with their own qualifications to walk to Genoa, if you remember your colleagues. You appointed a hospital commander to his friend, Mr. Polakis, with the vulcanizer, the hospital commander who had four fake degrees. You have done business with the pastures and the offshore that you are now in front of you and you have created a parastate to control the known joints of power. It took the rule of law, which fortunately exists in this country, and we support, the FEI's flagrant decision where this anti-constitutional law was brought down by Mr Papapas, your colleague, in order finally to prevent the institutional diversion that you were going through. First, answer all of this, and then you come to raise the tone to issues outside of the bill. As far as the Communist Party of Greece is concerned, I would agree with Mr Pafile that he was typically right in what he said, that today is a day of parliamentary control and we are discussing a bill, as well as a multi-faceted role for the MP in modern society and for demands outside Ethiopia. But he knows that a huge effort is being made by the Bureau of Parliament to respect the conditions of good legislation and productive parliamentaryism. But the needs of the place, where SYRIZA left us, are huge. The challenges are great and the government, as the present ministers are best proving, is doing titanic work, a major legislative activity, which obviously burdens our parliamentary activity, but at the same time fills all Greeks and us majority MPs with hope and optimism for changing our political project and improving the lives of the Greeks, especially those who are suffering and are weaker. For the bill, I don't have much time to say. After all, Mr Tagaras, the majority rapporteur, presented them in an excellent and detailed way. In short, I will only say that the aim of the government, but also of the New Democracy's party, is to serve - and serve them completely through this bill - the quickest and easiest service of the citizen seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, the placement of the citizen, essentially at the centre of the state and the rest of the citizen's confidence in a new Greek state that we see. With these considerations I would like to say by closing that in the New Democracy we are proud of the activity and effectiveness of the services and the political leadership of the Ministry of Digital Policy, of the three ministers who are here who are actually changing the political model, bringing substantial changes that the citizen lives with, as we have been told before, with figures and evidence and not with words of content, with which you are trying to make opposition. With optimism, but also with the whole parliamentary group as well as with political satisfaction, we also heard the announcement of a new legislative initiative shortly by the Ministry that will strengthen this policy. I wish the next time we come here to discuss these issues, to talk about the substance, Mr Janakopoulos. I address you and your present colleagues. Finally, I would like to stress that the digital transformation of public administration and the transition of the state to the Second Industrial Revolution are one of its major bets for the Government and the New Democracy. This is a bet that works hard to win, a bet we earn - and my colleagues' presence proves it day after day - a bet that has no right to lose for the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, you must sincerely be a visitor to this country, because the imprinting of events as you can see, is probably not about Greece. First of all, I fully respect the religious feelings of every citizen in this country, but you cannot convince us that the sudden sorrow and anxiety of both your own and your fellow Members are not combined with a series of diplomatic failures, omissions or the lack of diplomatic measures which are borne solely by the Mitsotakis Government. Now, because you asked for answers, would I like to tell you this? Don't scratch on the bag of chopans, because once you've sworn in this Chamber, the first thing you've done was to give 80m euros under the table at the KEKs. The second thing you have done, Mr Levane, was to find a way to abolish educational units, to strengthen private training. The fourth - fifth thing you've done is to release the redundancies. The sixth was to reduce the wages. The seventh was to allow the final state of Mr.Mitsotakis to be commanded by seven hundred additional poster. And because that's evidence, and it's not lessons, and I fell feathers that you join into a clipboarded speech, that's life. This has also happened in this Chamber and outside. The growth of posters, however much as you do with one person, you should have in front of one without a degree - Karanikas has a degree...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u184	What's his degree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u185	He has a university degree. Ask you to know. You have the NSA, Mr. Condolete. He can ask and learn. The commander of the NSA has no degree and in order to remain in his place, which you are dividing today, you have changed law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u186	But he's excellent!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u187	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Lebanese, resigned because he declared degrees that do not exist in sub-Saharan Africa! And he quit! Was he excellent? Why did he quit? And now we're going to the third and last for your final state regarding Mr. Luli. Have you studied millers, Mr. Levane? Is there a standard criterion in your final state that you studied in Switzerland meal machines? I respect Mr. Luli, but you won't drive us crazy with your desperate attempt to clear the white with black. And I'm closing down to come to Mr. Pierracakis. You are accountable for this: Minister, your Ministry has hacked. In fact, you've been hacked into the black Internet. You made two assumptions. I don't know if you've noticed. The first concerns 'DENMARK'. You say - rightly defending Mr Tzanakopoulos - that the EUR 5 million of direct assignments is 'DENMARK'. The EUR 20 million, Mr Lebanese, why isn't it in the 'DENMARK'? Why isn't the Ministry of Finance's decisions on financing? What's the matter with both? Are you members of another government and you, rather, of the Collapsing Party? For Mr Pierrakakis, correct, modest and humble is the EUR 5 million in the 'DENMARK', for you the EUR 20 million under the table and, indeed, in the means of communication that have been closed, to your spouses? Where? The EUR 20 million that you have shared with relatives and friends is good management and moral budgetary practice? Are you kidding? Mr Pierrakakis, you know, digital transformation serves a rule-of-law society, and it is also a sign of culture for someone who wants to translate a state truly afflicted by bureaucracy. But you can't use us for good law, when in your hacked bill there's an amendment to the NSA on the black Internet and an amendment to the Ministry of Education and the seven cities you will deprive preschool children of the opportunity to enjoy this right that the law gives. The third - and last - which is again in the same bill that has been hacked, is the assumption of homosexual couples and all that. In order to transform a state into a digital one, Mr Pierracakis, in my opinion, as many praises as you gather from either the polls or within the audience of the New Democracy, they should respect reforms that have already been achieved. It should respect that today that you are proposing to translate the state into digital form, you are challenging the forest maps. 40% achieved with a very great effort and captures...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u188	Anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u189	Anti-constitutional? Probably customer, Mr. Colleague, because through this abolition you want to take care of the thousands of voters who came with the topographics to legitimize the arbitrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u190	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u191	Am I wrong? History will show it. On the legislative initiative, the forest maps are abolished. Leave the anti-constitutionals. To get into the most basics, because the things about Kalogris and all the mud and misinformation no longer need answer, you've been so into the gutter that no one is catching you because it's obviously animated sand for you. From a lie to a lie! Where would anyone catch you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u192	That is, not all of this!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u193	Didn't it happen? They are done, Mr. Levane. Unfortunately, they are. The 20 million euros went into the pockets. It's not on the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u194	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u195	Please don't interrupt. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u196	Have you found the money route? You want to tell me a minister who's taken 1 euro? Let me tell you a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u197	Tell them! Tell us the names!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u198	I'll tell them, Mr. Mayor. But they know who they were in the pay roll of Christmas. They know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u199	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u200	Don't have a dialogue. The debate is customary, but it is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. It's actually happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u201	What is forbidden, Mr President? I don't want to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u202	I am addressing both sides. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u203	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u204	Go on, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u205	Mr Lebanese has one study every time I get to the Step in order to have a dialogue. We're in the House and not on TV. I'm trying to resist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u206	Come on, Mr. Giannoulis, we still have many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u207	Of course, Mr President, I shall end. Something about the bill. You say with great warmth and humanity that you apologise to parents and children who were in line to pay the price of reasoning. You know, digitizing bureaucracy is not a solution for these people. At the same time that you are taking, with one really, I would like to believe, sincerely, children in need of speech therapy, children with dyslexia and with your responsibility are facing closed doors in public administration, in the military, for example: excellence of the law with dyslexia has been cut off by the Military Law, precisely because there is this racism for children with dyslexia. And I'm asking you logically, how can he be an excellent of law and military law, the child with dyslexia, who is not a disability, be cut?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u208	Please complete, because you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u209	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u210	You can imagine wanting to say "fire!" And never be able to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u211	Mayor, we're not sending him to war, to military justice, to dyslexia...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u212	Finish it, please. Get Mr. Ypsilantis ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u213	I'm sorry, Mr. President. But dyslexia, Mr Mayor, is not a weakness of expression. I'm sorry. Ask first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u214	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u215	It's been years. Why didn't the SYRIZA government change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u216	Of course, Mr Roussepoulou, it has been the case for years. We made a proposal to change and it's started now. But that was a few days ago, Mr Russopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u217	You're having a dialogue and they're not even recorded in the Minutes. You don't sound. Mr. Giannoulis, you're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u218	Listen to something, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u219	You've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u220	Mr Pierrakakis, I would like to conclude by saying this: it is truly noble and high expectation to achieve the transformation of this country's digital system, but, you know, that in order to achieve it, you will also need a serious government. It seems that you are not an organic member of this government, but at least try not to be exposed to the demands and demands of a government that only wants to transform is the party state of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u221	For those who follow the list, let me say that there has been a change between Mr. Ypsilanti and Mr. Loading. Following Mr Ypsilante, the Parliamentary spokesman of KINAL, Mrs Giannakopoulos, and then Mr Callianos from New Democracy, will speak. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will not go along with the fellow Members of the Staff Regulations. It is a catastrophic negatism at all, when all they have to show and say is this negatism about a year after the deception suffered by the vast majority of the Greek people, which continues and continues in a clear way. They're the only ones who've lost the booze. Everyone follows his own captain, says his own, zero. They want to lure the Greek people at a really difficult time and because of Turkey's pandemic and provocation, which is treated with unity by the Greek people and with great determination from the Greek government in the international forums. In fact, I, too, must speak from the Stepma to the provocativeness of Turkey's policy of barbarism, which is today manifested by the decision to transform the symbol of Christianity and one of the most important monuments of the global cultural heritage, of Agia Sophia, into a mosque. The international community and the entire civilized world must with all means react to this action and cancel it. In an environment of rapid technological development, this bill comes to speed up further the digital upgrading of our country, with the benefit of citizens to be multiple and maximised due to the simplification of daily procedures, thus strengthening the relationship between citizens and the day-to-day administration. You introduce, Minister, hopeful digital and audiovisual practices, which really maximize our conviction that our country can not only get on the road to technological and digital development, but also play a leading role. And that, of course, is another step forward within one year is annoying by the SYRIZA. Already within this short period the excellent operation of the single digital portal of public administration is the guarantee for the next day. The draft law under discussion has as its role the promotion and enhancement of audiovisual production in our country on its first pillar. Therefore, the road to related investment projects, which will give growth potential and stimulate the labour market, opens up. Such arrangements may be more timely than when, taking into account the particularly high competitive level of the wider region. The print and dynamism that the sector can give to our country has already been felt since the late 1950s, with large productions, several of which have been implemented in my country of Rhodes. Who will, after all, forget the emblematic work of the American director and producer of Carl Foreman "Navrone cannons" and so much more along the way. You are now creating those conditions, so that it is organised and with a view to developing this sector even more, with subsidies provided for in the bill, but also with the abandonment of bureaucracy. We are ready in this way to export this powerful brand called "Greece" throughout the world. Simplification of procedures also gives the entrance ticket of the country to the large platforms followed by millions of visitors. This process is also a huge leap for our country and its contribution to culture worldwide. The second area it deals with is the provision of digital public services through the single digital portal of the public administration. Thus intangible prescribing through the primary care system acquires a permanent character. Furthermore, through this portal, the application procedure and all supporting documents required to compensate for the costs of special treatments of children and adolescents under Article 45 of the Single Health Providers Regulation, carried out by private special treatment providers not included in the EEAS, are changed. Simplification of procedures for the possibility of the acquisition by IORP and IORP of the information attesting to the acquisition of a diploma of study of a natural person and of their transmission to public bodies and legal persons. A particular reference should be made to the proposed provision of Article 16, which recommends the Single Digital Gate Coordination Service, so that further integration of the digital services offered can take place and at the same time strengthen the confidence of the public exchanged with the public administration. The third and final pillar concerns strengthening digital governance through procedures that facilitate the public's digital interface with citizens and businesses. And finally, the regulation of the organizational issues of the Ministry itself. Minister, with these considerations, I say not only that I am voting in favour of this bill, but also that I am standing in favour of all this great effort which - believe me - gives our own children the prospect of our own children in the future of this country. We can finally be proud of ourselves in this area too. Finally, we can take our country from an example to avoid bringing it as an example to be imitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on culture, as well as the new possibilities that we can have in this area in the field of the new digital age that is emerging out of our lives, a new era which precedes us for the development of domestic film producers and for the attraction of foreigners. But I cannot, before entering the debate of the bill, as a Greek and Member of the Greek Parliament, not refer to the brutal insult and challenge of Mr Erdogan. I feel the need to unite my own voice in the collective, national, globally necessary condemnation of this unscrupulous decision by Turkey to turn Ayia Sophia into a mosque. Mr. Erdogan's decision to transform the monument of cultural heritage of UNESCO into a mosque concerns, hurts the offending Greeks and orthodox ones and angers them. We must raise a global wave of protest against this unacceptable attitude by the Turkish President. This decision offends Christianity, insults Greece, offends the entire civilized world, eighty-six years after it was declared a museum. It offends its universal character, offends those who recognize this emblematic monument as an estate of global civilization. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is in the clearest sense that the process towards full Muslimisation of Turkey and its even greater removal from the European Union is taking place. This decision affects not only Turkey's relations with us, Greece, but also its relations with the European Union, UNESCO and the global community as a whole. No one, ladies and gentlemen, can say and claim that he did not understand, was able to understand Mr Erdogan's attempt to turn Agia Sophia into a second Mecca. Europe, the international community and the leaders of the other religions have a moral, cultural and political duty to wake up and intervene immediately and decisively so that a leader who is distinguished for his or her authoritarianity, for his or her adoption, for the promotion of extremist and aggressive moves and who need - and this is the most important - works and not words, measures, sanctions, and that is why we all have to form a stiff national front, a strong voice that we will demand. I now come to the bill that is being discussed today. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is structured in five chapters and attempts to regulate issues relating to the promotion and simplification of procedures for the enhancement of the production of audiovisual works, the provision of digital public services through the single digital portal of public administration, the strengthening of digital governance and, finally, the regulation of organisational issues of the Ministry of Digital Governance. Unfortunately, we see every day that the area of culture and audiovisual production is going through an ongoing crisis. Our country has one of the oldest film traditions in the world. At the same time it is a particularly popular destination for film production. But today - and we all know that - there is a mess in the process of financial aid to these producers. Producers need state support in order to create projects that will have added value and which will in turn create jobs for actors, for technicians, for directors, for writers, for musicians and others, who today, in their overwhelming majority, are working without safeguarding their rights. And, of course, we must not overlook the fact that in already very difficult circumstances, with limited productions, but also many times in working-age conditions for artists and technicians, the crisis of the coronary came and added, which in particular, ladies and gentlemen, affected the world and the area of culture and the government's support and policy has been very pitiful and unfortunately too late, while the measures taken were fragmentary and without serving a more comprehensive central planning, which we in the Change Movement have also strongly criticised, but also constructively criticised, on the other hand, by making concrete proposals to the government. Of course there is a need for considerable support, in all these circumstances, in the area and in the area of culture, and on the other hand we have to prove that we can at last do things that can take our country's culture before, instead of staying in yesterday, instead of staying in Paleolithic practices and methods, and no one can question that the state must make use of all those available tools, support the development of the cultural area in order to create more jobs. However, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill there are very serious questions which must be answered convincingly. In particular, which Ministry will be responsible for policy making in cinema? The Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Digital Governance? To what exactly is this division of responsibilities that you bring with your arrangements and which at least we cannot understand? Couldn't the Greek Film Center turn into a Greek Film and Television Center or a Greek Audiovisual Producer Centre, so that it has the overall competence? We would like you to tell us, Mr Minister, which other countries this model applies to. I think it is a reasonable question that asks and needs convincing answers, and I certainly hope that it is not a Greek specificity of the new regularity that you want, as you say, to bring to our home country. I wonder, would it not be more functional for there to be a single centre, to become a common producer register of the Hellenic Film Centre and of the EMEA? And also, give us a clear answer as to whether it will finally be the case and what will happen with 1.5% of the revenues of advertising channels that are obliged to give in favour of cinema. Because so far, Minister - you know - the only one who does this is ERT, while private channels do nothing. Is there any reason, Minister, for this discreet and prosperous private channels of treatment in order not to do what is required under the law? We need a clear answer for that too. In addition, this draft law introduces provisions that strengthen digital governance. Obviously, we are positive on every step that is being taken towards modernising the state and limiting bureaucracy, particularly in favour of the state's digital transformation. Besides, Mr Pierrakakis, I think you are well aware that PASOK is and has been a long line of major reforms in the public sector, with the ASA, the JEPs, the 'DIAGY', e-prescription. It's all part of our party. I imagine you know that very well, as you come from this party. And today, Minister, you are introducing some regulations that serve the same target. Report the intangible prescription. With the corrections you have made, you have correctly added the intangible references, the electronic submission of a request for documents, as well as others. And of course, we stand positively against these regulations. But you are creating a new structure in the Ministry with forty-five new staff posts, managers, divisions. However, for you, the defenders of regularity, you do not tell us what the cost of operation is. It's unknown. So, can you tell the Greek Parliament about this very obvious issue? How can you ask us to vote on a provision which causes expenditure on the budget without this expenditure being calculated? And, of course, a big question which should have been self-evident - but ultimately we see that 'blue' regularity is not entirely self-evident - it is how these recruitments will be made. You have a "allergies" in the procedures of the ADP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. We have also seen and heard with the amendment accepted by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Hardalia, who, indirectly but clearly, came here today and told us that all the organizational, if you like, inertia that has to do with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection is due to the lack of twenty-eight posters. That is what we have learned today that the work of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection is not progressing, because twenty-eight subsequent works are missing. Do you want me to tell you a statistic, which I think is really indicative, unfortunately, of your mentality, of your "blue" attitude, Mr Pierracakis? In fact, with these recruitments, which you now bring 37% of the workers to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, they are obsolete. At the moment they work there forty - seven plus twenty - eight, seventy - five. Some 40%, therefore, of the employees of a general secretariat will be posted officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u225	Complete, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u226	I'm closing up with this. For our amendment to the Ministry of Citizens' Protection in relation to the PPE, I think it was clear that the party rapporteur and I have been telling you that unfortunately this amendment weakens the PPE, as a neural in the electronic information sector, which has already been operating since 1953, is degraded. And unfortunately - and I am sorry to say this - we are basically entering other logics, logically in an attempt to re-militaryisation - I really wonder - of such a sensitive and neuro-algal sector, completely contrary to the philosophy of the PASOK governments who had removed this service from the Pentagon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u227	Finish it, please. At 6 p.m. we have to hand over the Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u228	I conclude by saying that we are waiting to respond to a bill with positive objective, I think, provisions, the Minister, in the critical questions that have been raised by both our rapporteur and us in order to identify our position on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u229	Mr Ioannis Callianos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the Government comes to regulate a number of issues, firstly, promoting and simplifying procedures for the strengthening of the production of audiovisual works, secondly, the provision of digital public services through the single digital portal of public administration, the strengthening of digital governance, and fourthly, the regulation of organisational issues of the Ministry of Digital Governance. The first chapter of the draft law on audiovisual works is to improve the existing framework, which in some cases has proved to be too rigid. Other speakers, but also the Minister himself, have referred to audiovisual productions that have been cancelled because of this stiff context. In this respect, the draft law defines more correctly the eligible costs and increases the percentage of the grant, the so-called Cash Rebate of the National Audiovisual Centre from 35% to 40%, as has previously been said, on the value of the total eligible costs of production. It also simplifies bureaucratic procedures that were an obstacle to attracting investment. This is done by simplifying the supporting documents and abbreviating the relevant deadlines. More incentives, in short, and less bureaucracy. Our country, this beautiful country in which we have the luck of living, is a natural film studio. The attraction of foreign producers, but also the support of Greek producers that can be exported, is something we need to invest and we need to aim. The remaining chapters of the bill relate to digital transformation, which is a key condition, ladies and gentlemen, for the transition to the fourth industrial revolution. It is true and there is no doubt that for many years our country has been behind in this area - we all know that - so that it cannot monitor developments in a time of rapid technological acceleration. There is no doubt, however, that last year we have been able to leap towards the digitisation of public and service services, simplifying specific procedures. The New Democracy Government has, at the very first moment, made the country's digital modernisation a priority in order to acquire a public alongside the citizen, a public that solves the problems of the citizen and not a public that fights the citizen. For the first time, the horizontal coordination of the state is essentially attempting, a state ready to respond to the needs of modern times and the everyday life of its citizens. Within a few months the country entered the accelerator by making reforms that had not taken place for many years in the past decades. The state's digitisation came to stay and was not just a temporary change in the battle against the pandemic. Visiting the gov.gr, which is now the single portal of the public, can easily perceive the very big changes that are taking place. When it started operating on March 21st, it had gathered five hundred services that were scattered. Today, there are five hundred seventy-five. Any new public service is now digitised and incorporated into gov.gr. For example, I would mention some of the figures that the Minister said earlier. Over five million visits to gov.gr, over seven hundred thousand documents were issued digitally, over two hundred thousand authorizations, over four hundred sixty-three thousand responsible statements, over four hundred fifty-five thousand entries in intangible prescriptions, over two million intangible recipes. The state is one and one must function. That is exactly the philosophy that the current government serves. However, we still have a long way to go, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can get to the point where we will mark the transition of the country to the new era. We've got plenty of road, but we've got plenty of work to do. This job is going to be done. Magic solutions and magic wands, of course, do not exist and you know it very well. The bureaucratic labyrinth was a timeless pathogen and a deterrent to investment. To be drastically reduced, a technological revolution is needed in the Greek public, which is not too easy to do every time. We are, however, approaching correctly this very objective, and that is exactly what we are trying methodically with the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance and the government as a whole from the first day of governance. A digital revolution so that Greece can reward claims for the new dawning era. A great deal of emphasis, however, must also be placed on human capital. The development of citizens' digital skills must be at the heart of planning so that all citizens can enjoy the benefits of this transformation, ladies and gentlemen, but also be provided with the skills that future jobs require. In this direction, the Digital Academy of Citizens, which has already been put into operation, is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law to be passed, among other things, the intangible prescribing and simplification of the procedure for the submission and receipt of proof of tax information is taking place. In addition, two new digital services are introduced that will be provided through gov.gr. First, the electronic application and the submission of documents for compensation for specific and individual applications for health services and, second, the service for the transmission of evidence of formal qualifications. This service enables citizens to search their degrees through a database of Greek universities and IATAP and issue copies of them in a digital way. Finally, I will tell you that this bill comes neither to make Greece Hollywood nor, of course, to wipe out the bureaucracy of all previous years. It does, however, create all the necessary conditions to make use of the competitive advantages we have in attracting and creating audiovisual producers, but also to move on to the digital transition, so that Greece is a country that is modern and present in technological developments, to build a state that respects its citizens in practice, a state that is investment-friendly and especially technology investment. After all, we have brilliant minds, which we must use and keep in the country. But we also have many other brilliant minds on the front line of research, which is no longer in our country. Therefore, we should ensure those capable and necessary conditions to return these brilliant minds to our region from abroad. Scientists waiting for the trigger to return and work in their homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute. For a legal improvement, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u232	For a clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u233	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u234	Thank you. The amendment containing the provisions on public rural networks radio frequencies, the qualifications of the President of the EMEA and the service of citizens by video call from the JEPs was already accepted by the committee and was included in Articles 25, 26 and 27 of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u235	The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, George Georgios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. I will need five minutes, Mr President, so that all Members can have time to do so. I could not leave a few unanswered issues, which were raised not only on the SYRIZA side, but also on other political parties today and which I think ultimately despise these parties themselves. For the period of this health crisis, if we ask a fellow citizen of what public services he has been pleased with, within them, of course other than health services, he will certainly say about civil protection and he will also say about the Ministry of Digital Governance, because he has enabled us to avoid the natural presence of citizens in public guises within a very difficult period of time. So today I have seen - and to a certain extent it was predictable, but I think it has become miserable now - that the two structures of these two services which have provided the largest services have been attacked at this time. In other words, the Single Digital Gate of the Greek State, the gov.gr, which, according to the bill, needs to be served with another forty-five people, and at the same time, the Civil Protection, which, with its new structure, the National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism, was passed a few months ago, must be served. Because of urgent needs, which need to be met, the Deputy Minister of State has today taken an amendment and is asking in person, I think, from Parliament's permission, approval, to recruit twenty-eight posted officials for some thirty months. I want to refer to these two issues and give the answers, because I think it is also wrong for you, but in total it is also unfair for the work carried out by these services. We all know very well that at gov.gr, when we took it and put it into operation at the beginning of March 2020, there were five hundred public services, which we gathered there and added within a very short time another seventy-five. It works in one way, which actually offered the citizen important services, facilitated his daily life and has been embraced from around the world. Only the five and a half million visits of our fellow citizens prove what I am saying to you, but so far all the work, the follow-up of the work that has been done with the platforms that have been created, their update, their support, has been done by some EDN developers. This service, for which we have the expectation, programming, the vision of becoming the only digital portal of the public, should now be served with the appropriate staff and its operation in the service itself, in the administration, to monitor it. That is why some forty-five people are needed, who will be hired with the ADP. Now listen. ACC will hire these forty-five. We were accused of coming a few months after the law of the state of staff and changing this structure, we now anticipate it and ask for additional staff, which we hadn't asked a few months ago. But if we brought in the need for this staffing in September or October, then your normal answer would be: But why do you want these forty-five people to do what work? Now that you see the work produced, the services produced, now that you see exactly the pace that has been created in the production of this project and we are late to ask for staffing, which we know will not be done immediately, but after a long time, you come and blame us. And this is S.H.I.E.L.D. In other history, in the history of Civil Protection, it comes and says the Deputy Minister, we have brought the law on the National Crisis Management Mechanism, which is very important and we all understand it, not only is it about the health crisis that we are experiencing now, but in general any crisis that the country can suffer from any natural phenomenon, but we all know very well that the procedures of the CSCE, which is an independent authority and has procedures that must be observed and well maintained, require at least one and a half years from now to the one chosen to sit in his chair and provide his services. In the two years that we will expect these people to sit in their services the way they are provided for by the AACC, what about the needs we have? What are we going to tell our fellow citizens when we cannot cope? That we know what needs are needed, but we cannot hire now, we will wait for the two years to come with the choice of the ADP. Very well and correctly, the ones who come will then, because they're really going to go into the public service and get into the hierarchy. They're going into the hierarchy. Until then we need some people with very special scientific knowledge to serve at this time the very great need there is. The Undersecretary comes in very well and sensitively and says: "I need these people and I need you to understand that I really need them, of those who were for my personal office, I only got one of the eight that I am entitled to." What else can he say? Actually, what don't you understand? Aren't there any needs in Civil Protection? The KINAL Parliamentary spokesman quite rightly said that with those who will be recruited as posters now 37% of this service will be posted. Of course it will. Because all the people who are currently doing the work you see in Civil Protection are forty-eight. All the work you see is done under Chardalion is forty-eight people. Are we not entitled to this once we have legislated, when we have organised the programme with which this will work? Of course he'll have permanent staff. Of course he's got specialist scientists. This transitional stage is now coming to cover the amendment that the State Secretary mentioned. In both cases, therefore, we have seen what we especially should not see today. In other words, in the two flagship services that have the love of the people, who have offered work during the health crisis, you are coming and trying to deceive and degrade their work and function. But you know what? The world outside sees what the Greek state as a whole is offering, in general, public administration under unprecedented conditions. Recognizes this work and will credit us. The best of all is to take part in this whole process with productive and positive proposals. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u238	How many other colleagues will speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u239	He is yet another speaker, George Kotsos. Then the Minister will talk and we'll get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I would like to express from the Step of the House my deep regret at Turkey's decision to turn Agia Sophia, the light of the inhabited, the eye of the churches into a mosque. Turkey abandons its secularity and now comes out on the dark paths of its religious intolerance, openly and provocatively. Europe, and the West in general, must finally react before it is too late. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors said 'no bad things of good'. And it is beyond doubt that the pandemic period was a very bad period. However, this period of time has also had a very good event. What was that? It was the digital migration of the state that moved at a rapid speed. They deserve particular congratulations to the people who contributed to the progress and, of course, to the leadership of the Ministry that proved to be worthy of the demands of the new era. It is understandable to everyone how easily the state's digital operation makes life easier. Movements, tails, suffering, working hours, nerves and how much longer this important reform does not save us. The digitisation now goes to everyday life for all, hitting the greatest perhaps chronic passionateness of the Greek public, the slow-moving bureaucracy. Intangible prescribing, certificates, responsible declarations, authorisations are tangible samples of such progress. At the same time, it also supports all those who cannot visit the services to obtain the necessary documentation because they are faced with kinetic problems or chronic diseases. The public finally shows a modern and at the same time social and humanitarian person. In the direction of this new digital world, the draft law that came to be passed today by the Ministry of Digital Governance is moving. What's the aim of the bill? It is the creation of a friendly investment environment in order to attract production in Greece. The ultimate purpose is to advertise the country abroad, but also to contribute to economic growth by creating and creating jobs. However, the important thing is to bring about a film production from abroad, another so - and perhaps more importantly - is that you can create a production of your own that you're going to export. At the time of compulsory incarceration due to the pandemic, like all of us, I have been in contact with some platforms for the supply of films and television productions, where I regrettably noticed the total absence of Greek producers. And I wonder: do we not have talented producers with vision, inspiration and ideas? Of course we do. Our country has one of the oldest film traditions in the world, excellent and wonderful landscapes, wonderful and bright weather and is a particularly popular destination for film productions. So what do we miss? We lack an appropriate framework for the development of domestic producers, but also for the attraction of foreign producers. That is precisely what brings today the bill that we have before us. To date there has been a mess in the production aid procedure. Now he's definitely ending this mess. Transparency, dignity, clarity and control are the elements proposed in the new framework. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go to another part of the bill particularly important, in the process of connecting a minor of the National Register of Minors and Candidate Parents of the National Register of Candidate Parents, which was expected to speed up and make the process easier. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We as a government, six months after last December's Zappeion in the presence of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, acted, in the middle of a coronary, on our promise of a family, for every child. Our main priority was and remains the minimisation of the stay of children in care structures and the change in the area of child protection in Greece. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to have the intention of bringing about changes and improvements, you must also be able to do so. And we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr Manolakos, for keeping time. The last speaker is Mr George Kotsos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I come to Stepma and wish to join my voice with all my colleagues who condemn the provocative, unequivocal action of the Erdogan regime to turn Saint Sofia into Jamie. I would also like to call on the few, very few colleagues who stand against this procedure with scepticism or concern that it is not time for a petty or a micropolitical approach to the whole issue. Hellenism must be united, with strong voice, to demand the international community that this action be fully condemned and that Agia Sophia be restored to the pretext. I note, of course, with particular interest, the attitude of SYRIZA colleagues towards the parliamentary storm in New Democracy. The usual reaction is: "And we had it in mind, we had started it, we did not have time to implement it." But, ladies and gentlemen, politics is not judged by intentions. Politics is the art of as practicable and is judged by the result. And the result is for the citizens too. Today, then, a year after Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the country's governance, the political footprint in our country is more than visible. The country again finds its institutional normality and the state - at last - operates effectively, without the government having to control the joints of power. Our country's prestige and credibility have been restored internationally. Greece attracts the investment interest of too many investors. Our country has acquired strong diplomatic power. We have successfully dealt with the COVID health crisis -19. Greece today, after the effective treatment of the pandemic, is considered a trustworthy state and a benchmark for the whole world. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, we have done with honest, serious, stubborn government work, which is now reflected in all citizens, and that is why their confidence in the state has been restored. The current draft law on digital governance is precisely the result of the credibility, hard work and ability we have as a government. The era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution is a fact. Digital revolution is a fact. We follow the rhythms of modern times, having the dynamics required. The digital transformation of the state's operation achieves the following: Elimination of bureaucracy, maximum gangrene for the Greek state. Efficient work. Attracting foreign and domestic investments. Accelerating growth and progress. In particular, we are achieving the consolidation of social cohesion through this process. We are amending certain provisions of a 2017 law to the status of audiovisual works with a view to speeding up and simplifying the production of these works, thus creating in our country the conditions that Greece must have for 2020 in order to attract investment in this sector. And in this way we should also contribute to the national economy. Our philosophy is that we can respond to the time we live and develop or modify provisions that no longer lead to progress. This is our approach. That's our philosophy. The COVID pandemic - 19 has shown us that the citizens are ready and willing to accept the digital changes, they want to facilitate their trade with the public system. This has also been demonstrated by the service of prescribing which, as the Minister said, over two hundred thousand prescriptions have been intact so far. Of course, it is also a very positive communication for an intangible process of referrals. Similar services that will make life easier for the citizens are the service that can give the diplomas now electronically, without the physical presence winning working hours, earning money, preventing the fake degrees we have had so far. I would say, Minister, that you are sensitive to the question of the interconnection of "My school" with "e-gov" in order to enable the parents of the students through this process, avoiding suffering, time, and money, to obtain a student certificate, a certificate for parental leave, a rating and all the rest. I would suggest in the model of tax information that we also proceed to insurance information, as well as to the possibility when one covers its contributions either to the ECA or to the ECA, that the whole system is automatically updated and that it seems insurance-informed. Of course, I think that a big bet on our government is the digitisation of our pension system so that we can actually retire to those who deserve it in very fast time. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the digital leap that it needs in this country is a reality and we will actually do so, and you have not been able to make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u243	Brutsis did that. In three days. Brutsis did it, he announced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u244	Don't interrupt. Are you interrupting the last speaker? Didn't you interrupt another speaker and interrupt the last speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u245	You didn't do it, Mr. Comrade. In four years of rule, you did not touch it. About four to five years you have allowed the insured to wait. It's your accomplishment. Good for you. Society has welcomed you, which is why it has ranked you where you are today. It is an honor and it is truly our pride that the Ministry of Digital Governance within the pandemic quickly adapted and gave digital processes and actions to our fellow citizens. Minister, go ahead. We're on your side. We support you. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I want my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u248	The Chamber must be cleared. We said there were no secondarys. After all, as far as I can see, you've been given time and you've all covered your seconds. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance is adjourned: ‘Accelerating and simplifying the strengthening of audiovisual works, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, 28 articles, 3 amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to 4 articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for the principle of the bill, all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u249	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u250	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u251	Following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Accelerating and simplifying the strengthening of audiovisual works, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u253	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the sitting here for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that all topical questions will be discussed, with the exception of two. One will not be debated because of lack of responsibility, the fourth under number 881/30-6-2020, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr.Aggeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "The urgent lack of legislative care on the censorship". The other question is not debated in consultation, the fourth question under number 901/6-2020, the second question of the Achaias MP, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos, to the Minister of Justice, on 'References to the justice of the Minister of Development Adoni Georgiadis'. The third question under number 888/3-7-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of the MEP Laurel of the Change Movement Mr. Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To appoint directly the Board of Directors and Commander at the General Hospital of Larissa". Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u255	Good evening, Mr. President, Minister. Mr Minister, once again we meet, and we have met well now, and unfortunately what we are constantly sharing concerns the General Hospital of Larissa. Until when - I wonder - those roles we both have. About the General Hospital today you should explain to us or here we have the victory of state factorism that you cannot find among you and set a board at the Larissa General Hospital - write and erase names of suitable and inappropriate people - or intentionally - that I do not want to believe - you are working on a plan to put a lock on the General Hospital of Larissa. I'm telling you with great respect to your face and amid a pandemic. But the U.S.H. pandemic took ours off, Mr. Minister, this downgraded, privatised behind the door - demi - etc. SWEDEN. Sixteen months, fifty pending cases at the Larissa General Hospital! I come today as a representative of the institutions and citizens of the city to tell you that our central hospital in the web and in the heart of the city that no one disputes the value of the university hospital, but we tell you loud and clear that it is a hospital that must stay. You're constantly downgrading it. Clinic managers are rebellious. They're texting you. The Association of Doctors, Hospitals and Larisa Health Centers, ENCYL, is preparing for abstention. Wednesday he informs the institutions and goes further. You have not designated a commander, we do not participate in the NRPs that have been opened, we do not upgrade anything at all, we are in an absolute vacuum and you do not define an administrative board. Today you are asked to tell us what is happening. Can't you agree to each other's proper faces? Can't you find a commander? Let's offer you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u256	Thank you too, Mrs. Liikali. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozaman, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Liikanouli, I hope and hope that we will also be able to discuss this after we have resolved the problems caused not only by the Larissa General Hospital, but also by other issues relating in general to the National Health System. You said it yourself. It refers to your question that it breaks down the Hospital of Larissa, but you said in your report that despite any problems, this hospital, together with the other structures of the National Health System, managed and managed in the best way possible to manage the pandemic, all the health structures of Larissa and especially the two hospitals, the University and the Prefecture. They literally lifted on their backs a great deal of weight. We are not in favour of conspiracy theory. No, there are no scripts to close Larissa Hospital. There are only upgrades and modernisation scenarios of this hospital. I will tell you in particular that during the pandemic we have prepared to deal with it. For the Hospital of Larissa and the University, we hired a total of seventeen medical staff and eighty-four other staff. The exclusive use beds for Coronovirus patients, nineteen intensive treatment beds and eighty two single hospital beds were sufficient. Therefore, such an infrastructure and at the same time such preparation and preparedness could not be achieved under any circumstances if your health claims concerning a sanitary sanitary structure were in place. Kutilibaleo, therefore, has been, and will continue to be, a battle structure of the National Health System with whatever problems, shortcomings and gaps it has. In no case do we deny that there are gaps. Not all problems, shortcomings, distortions in one year are solved. They have been problems for years and are not solved from one moment to the next. We're trying to find solutions. We are sure that - after all - we will find the best possible solutions. I am really sorry, because I am sure you understand the satisfactory point of preparedness and operation of this hospital. You're talking about a collapse in this period. Mrs Liikanouli, the problems, as I have said, exist and we do not deny them. The delay in the appointment of the new governor and new members of the Board of Directors is an issue, an outstanding matter that has come to an end, let me say, but I remind you that there is continuity in the administration in the public sector. There's no administration gap in the hospital. The Director of Medical Service shall exercise the commander's debts. Everything is being implemented properly, budgeted and everything else there is. Of course it needs a Board of Directors and of course it needs a commander, but I tell you that the committee responsible, who has the responsibility to propose to the Minister for Health those persons who, in particular, can stand in the position of the commander, have ended up in the face and in the next few days, the hospital will have a commander. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u258	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u259	You said a lot of things to us, Minister, but you didn't talk to us again. Same thing we're tired of. To me, however, you will not charge that here, in this Chamber, I bring you scripts for the collapse of the hospital, because you know letters and read what I am sending you. I therefore bring you to the Minutes both the protest by the Larissa Medical Association and the Association of Medical Hospitals for Health, ENCYL, who will be a short time away from the external medical services on Wednesday. What are you going to say about the scheduled surgery? What you're saying to me, "Mrs. Liikali, don't tell us like that." How do I tell you? As I tell you. Read, then, why I don't want my time to waste, because I have more serious things to say to you: 'Indulgence of the Government and the Ministry of Health about elementary, nomination of the Board of Directors, we consider it a suspect'. Your doctors are telling you this, I'm not telling you it. Six hundred and fifty cases are already pending for signature and processing. Your doctors say that. I'm not telling you this. Serious tenders for the supply of materials and equipment. Anaesthetics, radiological equipment, tomographs, equipment for IM and MMF inside the coronary. Doctors tell you this. I'm not telling you this. So, when you say "Mrs. Likolis, do not bring the collapse here" you will talk to doctors by me and address the doctors. So, gentlemen's deal. The hospital's blowing the slippers. You have 16 months. I'm noble by nature. I have a civil courtesy and towards the faces of the ministers. But I do not want you to challenge me because then I will tell you that you are setting a few days in command of the General Hospital of Larissa, Mr. Balis, who resigned because he fought with Mr. Serretis, the disciple. And the Ministry is watching you as if it were a playground, Minister. And the hospital is felony with sixty-five pending cases and sixteen months without command and board of directors. But the NRW also opened up the hospital who wants to build a new wing, wants new equipment, etc., has nothing of them. Let me tell you one more thing. Minister, you have to deal with the hospital. I'm appealing right now. Consider yourself because, on 30-6 days ago, you set a crisis council for the governors of SYRIZA and withdraw the decision. The whole world laughs. And there's more things people will laugh about. I'm telling you. Believe me, you'll see them tomorrow. Gastroderological, gynecological situation in the middle of a pandemic? What about me? Let me tell you, Mr Contozamani, because I have followed you on the front line of the pandemic and the coronary, and I want to be fair. You do what you do. The pandemic, I, first of the Step of the House and of the House, said that the government had properly managed it. But don't you say you're managing the Larissa General Hospital cases. Because you didn't do anything about it. You neither appointed governor nor board of directors to nominate. Today I came in the hope that you would send me away to a minute by saying, "He is the commander, this is the Board of Directors". Really the way you manage it is like sowing storms. You'll reap winds. Already the whole of Larissa's society, know it's lost its innocence, Minister. They're all suspicious. Honestly, if we see in the immediate past what has happened, a few months before the pandemic, when the Minister of Health visited the city of Larissa and the university hospital and the statements he made later, we will realize that the times are evil. Innocence has therefore rightly been lost by many. So please, Minister, the names of the governors and members of the Board of Directors. What can you tell us today? Will you tell us that you are not members of the Board of Directors? We offer you worthy technicians, as you want them in blue suits, blue ties. As you wish. Cut and sewn in your footsteps. But to operate the hospital, because the hospital dies and with him dies a large part of the city. That is what I come to tell you today. I am looking forward to your reply, at least now, if you talk to us about the tanker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too. Mr. Kontozamanis has three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u261	Mrs. Liikali, I'm not a member of the board of governors' assessment. There's a specific procedure for selecting the commander. I told you it's come to the end. The whole process has been done as it should have been and it is a matter of days to see the name of the Governor and the members of the Board of Directors in FEK. But I'll go back to the tampering room, as you say. The hospital was operating normally at this time and things were done. I remind you of the functioning of the gastro-enterological clinic. I would remind you of the plan for the energy upgrading of the hospital, where the technical department of the Ministry of Health and with the agreement of the 5th Health Region has decided to send the Ministry of Development a decision to implement this operation on energy upgrades, as reflected in a technical bulletin. I repeat once again that there is no gap in administration. Larissa's hospital operates administratively adequately. He'll have a commander and board in a moment. Of course you will see in the next few years that we will do what we have said. We will upgrade this not only in this but also in other structures and operate as it should work. Don't have any misgivings. Here we are, and we'll see you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. That's a nice start. The beginning is half of everything. I like these times. The first question under number 887/3-7-2020 will be discussed in the second cycle of the Prime Minister of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In danger the smooth functioning of the Preveza Hospital, due to the lack of nephrologists and anaesthetics". Mr. Barka, good evening and good week. You have two minutes at your disposal for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, thank you very much. Good week to you, too. I would like to make a comment on what I have heard in the previous time question as a response from the Minister before entering into the matter of my own question. It's about Preveza Hospital. We have an originality, you know. The government of excellence decided to run the Preveza Hospital's president NO. Artas and Administrator at the Artas Hospital, former president of NO.D. You're a Preveza. We're making a change to the presidents of NO.O.D. It's a good originality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u264	Close it here and go to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u265	Sure. Minister, strong concern has caused the citizens of Preveza and the wider area of our prefecture the lack of medical staff at the Preveza Hospital. We've been through the pandemic. You have a year of government and unfortunately the General Hospital of Preveza is constantly degrading. The main problems we're facing right now are that the kidney clinic, Mr. Minister, has, I think, a doctor. I think he has a doctor. The director of the kidney clinic is under retirement. The anesthesiological, Minister, has two anestheticists. This unfortunately has the impossibility of not covering the month's newspapers at the Preveza Hospital. So you understand that this makes the role and functioning of the surgical clinic difficult. Last month we didn't manage to cover the on-calls for ten days. Minister, the pathological clinic - although not mentioned in this question - is also in difficulty. The director of the pathological clinic is also to be retired. How much can man last? We are staying with two pathologists on the substance. So you understand, Minister, that it is very difficult for the three main clinics to operate in the general prefecture of Preveza. Because it is our hospital and there has to be a hospital in every prefecture, because it covers a huge amount of citizens in this hospital, I would like to ask you, Minister, what the Ministry intends to do next in order to cover the medical gaps that currently exist at the General Hospital of Preveza, in order to restore the proper functioning of the hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr Barca. And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Barca, before answering the question, allow me a comment. Don't tell us about our options in hospital administrations, or we'll tell you about yours. You put governors in a hospital that didn't even have a degree. There are many other examples. In any case, the problems of the Preveza Hospital are not currently present. You've been ruling for five years too. We've received some problems and we're trying to solve them. In fact, the hospital is flawed in medical staff, but without jeopardizing its smooth operation. This is mainly due to the direct action taken by the hospital administration along with the administration of the 6th Health Region. First of all, to meet the daily needs, personnel are being moved from the health centres of the region. The position of an adjunctive physician of anaesthetics, which, unfortunately, remains vacant due to lack of interest, has been approved, and there is a request for hospital staff with proof of service for anesthesiology and nephewology posts approved by the Ministry. In the next time, the appointment to cover permanent posts of medical staff of the following specialties is also concluded: Two positions of curator II Pathology, one position of curator II Nephrology, one position of curator II Medical Biopathology and one position of curator II Gastroenterology. These are the actions carried out by the 6th Health Region and may be run by the Preveza Hospital in an adequate and safe manner. At the same time we are working on it - and I have said to previous questions that we have answered - a framework of incentives for regional hospitals, for arid areas, for remote areas, so that we can attract medical and other staff to these areas, especially in specialities, because there are specialities which are lacking not only in the district hospitals but also in hospitals in the large urban centres. We are committed by the Step of the House that we will soon be presenting our proposal. In fact, we have said that your party has also presented some specific proposals on this issue and we will be ready to present this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Barka, you have three minutes for your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, we have heard nothing from the Minister. General things and nothing on the substance. He told us he'd be in the process of making posts at the General Hospital now there's a problem. The Nephrological Clinic doesn't have doctors and those who do haemodialysis, people from the wider area of our prefecture who go to haemodialysis, there's no doctor to help them. You're telling us about the Pathological Clinic. Here, post: "Doctor with block is requested at the General Hospital of Preveza. On its limit the Pathological Clinic." And the Minister tells us he'll make two doctors. They canceled, Minister, four recruitments of doctors at Kavali and Paris Health Centers, which SYRIZA took out, canceled these recruitments, no doctors, and now they come and tell us that they are moving from health centers. Who? They announced, he says, recruitments to the General Hospital when they made movements of nurses in the middle of a pandemic. People are making fun of us. We've asked a lot of questions about the shortcomings... I shall put them before you, Mr President, and in the Minutes for them to be present. Minister, you're laughing, and you're doing nothing. Don't tell us too much about the governors because you're the one with the sign of excellence, Minister. Right? You guys are great. So don't tell us too much about the governors. We have also proposed, Mr Minister, that you transfer them to their cities so that they do not have the travel expenses of the governors, but I would put this aside because we have exceeded it. When are you hiring? Put the limit now, Minister, and tell us that in six months' time the hospital will have a nephrologist, a pathologist, a general doctor and anesthesiologist. Because we, Minister, have covered these shortcomings - and say what you want - and in difficult times. We never had a kidney problem. Whenever there was a problem with the functioning of the rest of the clinics, Minister, we found the way and we covered the gaps. In cooperation with the doctors, we acted, we made suggestions, we had a tough frame, but we did it. You who are out of memorials, what are you doing? Where are those notorious recruits? Will the Preveza Hospital see any intakes? Because so far only hollow words have you done nothing at all. It's good to visit the area as well. Come and see for yourself what is going on. He denounces today that he went to the Parga Health Center and was closed. Where are the recruitments of doctors launched by the previous government, this irreversible government that didn't do anything, baby? The four pathologists for the health center where are they? Where are the hires? You are announcing recruitments that were launched by the previous government and, indeed, cut and sewn because they are being taken elsewhere. These were under way. What are you doing? Why don't you do anything? So the kidney patients, how long will they expect from the ministry? Tell us about it. Say you're on the way to the intake of doctors. How long can they wait? What will the pathologists do? Will they go to the kidney and help the doctors over there? And what about the TLPs, the anaesthetics, the surgery, the surgery clinic? Rydo, you've done it, Minister. You should come over there and see things. Talk to your MPs and your executives to see what's going on. What the Commander sent you on the 6th D.C., which I don't know if he sent them because he and he don't have a picture of what's going on, is things that don't happen. There's a serious problem. I'm telling you in a human field and level. It is not the health field of confrontation, obviously, but do not announce things that have not been done or the previous government. He's going to close the kidney. Where are people going to do haemodialysis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr Barca. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Barkas, I said it in my prototype, so I wonder, after what you say, why in the past five years when your party was in the government, did you not give the solutions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u272	But we gave it away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u273	And in a year, all you had built was broken up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u274	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u275	Okay. What exactly did you do for the Preveza Hospital? You told us you were gathering and giving solutions. It's not about gathering and giving solutions. I told you specific things that we did and we did. I told you that the crisis ended in August. We have said many times that during the pandemic period we have increased the forces in the National Health System, through subsidiary staff. The original programming was for two thousand people and we've exceeded five thousand ancillary staff hires. As I have said, health crises are being completed and there are, of course, other crises in previous tenders that concern primary health care. I want to make something clear to you. Problems are not solved from one day to the next. Of course we must ensure that every form of health is functioning properly. Let us not forget that during the pandemic we have fought a great battle, and we have faced this threat and our timeliness have been drastically reduced in order to proceed with further procedures and decisions, in order to cover gaps and shortcomings, and indeed on a permanent basis, because we must provide permanent solutions to the health system and not just temporary staff, or anything else. We are doing everything we can and I am sure that we will soon have concrete solutions, re-ordering the old National Health System and of course modernising health structures, ensuring equal access for all citizens to modern health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u276	Will the kidney function, Minister? Is Pathology gonna work?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u277	It'll all be covered. I told you, in principle, that Pathology and the kidney are going to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u278	What you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u279	I told you that judgments are being completed in specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u280	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u281	Until the end of August.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Minister. We will now move to the second with number 891/5-7-2020 on the second question of the MP Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Incentives for the recruitment of doctors to hospitals in the islands and in the remote areas". Mr. Poula, good evening. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me for a minute to address a matter that is dominating this week and this weekend, of course. I would like to refer to the burning issue of the last few days, which is none other than Erdogan's provocative decision to turn Agia Sophia into a mosque. We therefore call on the government to respond effectively. Of course we also expect the practical reaction of all international organisations, the United States, Russia, the European Union and the Council of Europe. This decision by the Turkish President is an insult to the entire civilised world and to Christianity. Let us now come to the question: Minister, the outbreak of the COVID pandemic -19 has brought major gaps to staff facing public hospitals in our country's island and intimate areas. Especially after the opening of tourism in our country and the increase in imported and domestic cases the need to fill these gaps is more urgent than ever. Let us not forget that the already subordinated health structures on our islands are responsible for covering islands, tourists and migrants. At times there is a question of introducing additional incentives that will make it more attractive to serve a qualified doctor in hospitals in the country's barren and sloppy areas. Recently, the EMCDDA Health Services Organisation and Evaluation Laboratory and the Piraeus University's Financial Management Laboratory launched a joint study to widen and identify new incentives to assist in the recruitment and stay of doctors in island areas of the country. Previously, namely in February 2019, the then government of SYRIZA set up a special committee, while in August of the same year the current political leadership of the Ministry of Health set up a new committee to provide specific incentives to doctors to cover the organic positions in the barren areas. It should be noted that for almost a year now, no concrete proposals have been made by the committee set up under the responsibility of the current government of the Ministry of Health. Nevertheless, the health needs of our islands remain, the tragic shortages of staff continue to exist and our public hospitals continue to fall down, creating insecurity to our islands and locusts. Minister, we would like you to inform us of the findings of the Committee that you announced in August 2019 to cover the barren areas with doctors, according to the Ministry of Health Press Release on 28-8-19. What was the result that SYRIZA, under No 8048/6-2-19, gave you a decision by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health on the same subject? Finally, tell us what your intentions and design are for the introduction of complex economic, scientific, administrative incentives to attract medical personnel to the barren and inaccessible areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, too. The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, first of all, regarding the committee you are referring to, it does not exist and it has never been established. There is an award of a study by the Ministry of Island Policy to two workshops from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and the University of Piraeus, from which a specific event will emerge at the end of August - early September. It is what we have said that we are considering the incentives that need to be given in order not only to attract, but also to enable health professionals to remain in island areas and in remote areas of the country. A few days ago, in parliamentary scrutiny, I was asked to answer a similar question from your fellow Member, on the staffing of agricultural hospitals, and in my reply I mentioned a little more east than in our planning, with regard to the incentives to be given to the National Health System, in order to make these areas, the islands, the continental, the remote, and barren, eligible and attractive destinations for doctors of various specialties. I agree with you that these incentives must be economic, scientific and administrative. We are therefore committed to this House that, in a short time, we will present our specific proposal, followed by a legislative initiative which will lead to the adoption of the necessary incentives to make the barren areas of attractive destinations. Basic elements of this plan are the redefinition of the framework of the barren areas. The revision of the incentives given to become stronger, attracting more doctors’ preferences. Strengthening continuing education. Improving working conditions. Strengthening economic benefits and other benefits and improving living conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Poula, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u287	Minister, I was surprised because I thought you were in the process to take all the necessary steps to get a finding. About the finding that the gentlemen who ruled before, SYRIZA, are there no findings? That's why you don't talk about it. You didn't tell us if there was a finding, if anything came out of this committee the previous ones recommended. One is that. The second is that you are well aware of the needs of these regions. The lack of beds ICU, MIDU, the lack of doctors. Recently, with the legislation we have brought in so as not to go by the agricultural doctors, there is also a subservient to the agricultural doctors on our islands. All these are matters that need to be addressed immediately, and especially now. Because now our country is opening. In other words, since June 15th, it will open up in England, on the 20th of the month, it will be opened in Sweden and the United States will probably enter, that is, tourists will come from this region as well. So how do you think to deal with all this possible "wave" that will result from the coronary? These are issues which are very serious and which you should give immediate priority. Because, indeed, on the islands right now, there is another big issue. At the airports for the coronary, are they only sampled? And who are they from? Are they only made by the military doctors you've taken and used to run the tests? Where did the KMYs go? Shouldn't they be activated? Shouldn't there be more? You see that every day the number rises. So we have to use all the means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Poula. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, we didn't find any findings from the previous government on motives or read anything about it. I told you that there is a specific study that is being carried out and about the end of August - early September we will be able to have this conclusion, so that we can have this result very quickly after the legislative initiative, so that we can introduce these incentives. You referred to your question about the motives for the barren and the remote areas. Let me separate your question from what is now happening in the coronary period and how we dealt with it and how we deal with it. I believe that these are two different things and we should not confuse them. We are constantly striving to fill gaps in the barren and remote areas, with subsidiary and permanent staff approval. You know - and you are a doctor - that in many cases positions come out uncivilised and it is an issue that should concern us. We are forced to move medical and other personnel from other structures for specific periods. The situation is indeed problematic, but it cannot continue indefinitely. And it must be understood that we have to move medical staff, once all of our islands, barren areas and remote areas have to be covered in health, especially now, during the koruna period, and that will continue until the appropriate solutions are found. The revision of existing incentives and the finding of new ones will certainly give solutions. We are sure of that. We are working in this direction and we hope that the proposal that we will bring will be voted on by all the parliamentary parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We're moving on to the next question. It is the seventh, with number 905-6-7-2020, timely question of the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Not the concession of the Centre for the Health of the Starway until a suitable and adequate reception and operation space for his services has been found." Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 30 May I asked you about the prospects for non-permanent workers in the ESS, for the four thousand workers from the OAED programme, for subsidiary doctors, for the other subsidiary staff. And you know, there's a sense of responsibility. You didn't ask, you finished and you left, but a continuous process until what we agreed, what we agreed. And what we agreed - I remember in the Minutes of this House, one can look back - is that all four thousand OAED are absolutely necessary and the auxiliary doctors and the other ancillary staff. I am learning, Minister, that you are not discussing within the government in a positive direction, namely the self-evident conversion of your words into a project, namely the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period, but in a negative direction, towards the non-renewal of fixed-term contracts. Even that's where you're thinking of getting there. I am learning and I would ask you very much to deny it and to confirm that you are staying in your position on 30 May that everyone will remain because they all need it. And then I asked you the question: Will you take the responsibility of leaving the country naked while the coronary is threatening our door? The post and authority is given: No worker in the ESS without a permanent employment relationship. That is why tomorrow's WTO calls for all contracts of permanent employment to be made at the National Health System, so that the very important applause you were calling for on the balconies and applauding, Minister, to take flesh and bones. It is the basic price and respect in this world of coronary workers who will continue to face the second wave. Secondly, on June 19th, Mr. Kontozamani, I asked you to take advantage of the "Lomadon", along with the history of 424 in the centre of the city as a reception, confirmation and treatment of coronary cases, so as to decongested the current hospitals "ACHEPA", "Papanikolaou" etc. Because there are other cases, too, very serious, cancer patients, heart disease, etc., that hospitals should continue to provide their critical help, health care for these patients. I now come to the contents of the question. Not only here are you not thinking of equipping my city, Thessaloniki of a million and a half million people, with an additional reception, confirmation and treatment of seriousness or not of coronary cases, but are you honestly thinking - are you serious about it? - in a coronary time to close the Gate Health Center? And I'll tell my second-guess about the health center we're talking about. We're talking about a health centre that covers three hundred and thirty thousand people. It covers all Western Thessaloniki. We are talking about a space that only accepted in 2018 ninety-four thousand visitors. He has sixteen specialties, he has radiological, microbiological laboratories, he has a mother-children's centre, family-response. Are you serious? Today, Mr. Tsiaras, your colleague, was in the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace and instead of an alarm from the government in view of the cases that increase the coronary, did you think - he says - the Health Centre of the Gate of Wide to do what? Expand the Justice House! When? In a krone time! When? At the time we left in February where there were two thousand cases and we went to the two hundred and twenty thousand cases worldwide. So instead of equipping the city, you're seriously thinking? The press reports say that Mr. Tsiaras said that a committee will be set up, which will decide on what will become the six-storey building of the IKA of the Gate of Age. Honestly, Minister, I'm looking into your eyes. I expect you to deny that the government is considering closing a coronary health unit. That's self-destructive. That's absurd, that's absurd. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u292	You said so, Mr Triantafylides, thank you very much. And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Triantafylides, I will not reply to press reports because you have again come here to tell us that decisions have already been taken, which we in the government do not know, especially when we learn from you in the Civilian Opposition. Let me say two things. Firstly, as far as the OAED contractors who have replied to a relevant question are concerned, your information is still wrong here. We have not left this issue and we have met today with a delegation from these contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u294	You met, but where did you end up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Triantafylides, he has not interrupted you, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u296	You inherited a problem. We have given a solution for a year and we are trying to find a solution to this matter permanently. And because you have spoken about permanent solutions and said that there must be permanent solutions in the national health system - yes, I must remind you that it was your government that introduced the subsidiary staff institution, which are temporary solutions to the health system. You have not been able to provide permanent solutions to the health system. I can assure you, therefore, that there is absolutely no concrete proposal. It has not been discussed with the participation of the Ministry of Health. The full and adequate health coverage of the population of these regions, which now covers geographically and, on the other hand, the upgrading of the services provided, is a matter of the highest priority for us. The Centre for the Health of the Gate is the flagship in primary health care in the area, and I do not know if you have this information. We have recently tried to install a CT scanner, which has not been possible, because appropriate interventions in the building's stasis are needed. Next, our aim is to open up and modernise structures rather than close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u298	You started getting good habits. Because your previous government was blocking hospitals, such as the "Smothon". It's good that you hate us in this. On the second point, the fact that the right does not know what the left pours on the same government, what the Ministry of Justice prosecutes in relation to the Ministry of Health, do not take an oath. First of all, that Mr. Tsiaras was in Thessaloniki today, you did not deny it. I would like to believe, unless the Thessalonians did not see Mr Chiara, but saw someone else, Mr Chiaras, in Thessaloniki. So I'm actually coming. It is enough for me to say that it is the flagship. And one would say that there would clearly be another place, Mr Contozamanis, which, when it is found, could raise this particular issue. Why am I saying that? Because the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth floors are housed - so people can understand what we're talking about - medicine and operate with extended hours from 7.00 in the morning to 8.30 in the evening, mother-children's stations, microbiological laboratory, laboratory, cell lab, spiral, medical examination. There is a meeting of the Primary Health Committee that judges human beings. And I want to tell you to be useful. Call now. There are 50,000 euros that were specialized by Paul, Paul Paul and Andreas Xanthos from the previous administration to enter an air condition system. Do you know what it's like to have a man with a wheelchair and drip in the sweat to get up to the sixth to go do the evaluation on the health committee? There's the 50,000 euro envelope. Do it. With 35 and 40 degrees, how do the hundred ten workers work in the health center and - to an absolute equal and equal extent - how do patients, their relatives, their escorts? I'm telling you about people who drip from sweat to get to the services. And because you are the government that evaluates them 'Laissez foire et laissez passer', demand, offer, etc., now the WTO says that you are considering bringing contractors back to hospitals, despite the decision of the European Court of Justice. I live in what you're saying, I believe you. And if you'd like, that's what we've joined forces together. The subject of the world that sees us is 'cuts, stand by forces'. Because when you're with your man in an O.R., there's no way out of here, over there, over there. We need to give solutions. And that's what I'm telling you about these solutions. The pathology had sixteen thousand, the pediatric four thousand, the pulmonary four thousand, the cardiological eight thousand and the orthopedic ten thousand visits. The total is fifty-four thousand visits in 2018. Mr. Tsiaras today in Thessaloniki on what he set up a committee and what will he tell him by the end of the year about the Centre for the Health of Gate along with his twin brother, who is essentially the Health Center in the Vineyards, who also has an amazing provision and supports all Western Thessaloniki? Are you thinking? I'm saying that to write it in the Minutes. Don't open another front in Thessaloniki. So one dares to raise a issue in time of a coronary, abandonment of a health unit, open a huge front with the people and citizens of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u300	Mr Triantafylides, a timely question was not a timely question, because you have dealt with too many issues. Let me say that you remind me of the film: 'Return to the Future'. Because you are asking us a question today when we are discussing this question by Mr Tsiaras visited the Justice of Thessaloniki. Yeah, that's his right. He is the Minister of Justice, and he is, of course, the right to go to the courthouse. He's in charge. But of course, when health issues are being discussed, they are being discussed with the Ministry of Health and I want to be clear about this. For the health centre I was also clear. And you give me the opportunity at this point to say a few more words about the primary health care system that we are planning. Why did you do this when you came to the House as a government to legislate the primary health care in order to build the local health units, first set up the positions with the specialties you wanted to hire and then went to legislate on primary health care.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u301	We've opened hospitals, Minister. You have closed down the 'Solids'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Triantafylides, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u303	So I can assure you that there is no cause for concern about the provision of services in the area of Thessaloniki. Our aim is to further upgrade health services. You will also see relevant announcements in the next period. And in no way degrade the services provided, but improve them all the time and have each citizen access both at primary and secondary level. Because the primary level of health is what we need to place particular emphasis on in order to address the majority of health problems at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. You're absolutely right. I left it because it's the flagship as you described it as the Gate Health Center. That's why I left it and it had to be heard. Mr. Triantafylides also has passion for Thessaloniki. Let's go to the next question. The eighth will be discussed under No 894/6-7-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restabilise the General Hospital of Western Attica (GCD) Agia Varvara. Handshakes do not save lives." Mr Arseni, good evening, good week. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a well-known subject and has come to this Chamber over and over. However, despite your commitments, we have not seen any actions. That's why I bring it. You are well aware of the old "Lomamonon" Hospital known as "Agia Varvaras". It is a hospital that has offered a variety of ways in the area. The wider area, which concerns western Athens and the 2nd Piraeus bordering the area of Agia Barbara, is an area that exceeds one and a half million citizens. Infrastructural is truly incomplete in the health part. However, in 2013, with a decision by the then Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, he in practice ceased his operation, while Mr. Dendias as Minister of Public Order had announced a plan for demolition. In any case, we have a hospital that offers terrible services, with a microbiological department that is able to examine samples even of Hepatitis (d) when all of this is sent abroad. We have a very good nephew. Yet he can't stand on his feet for a very simple reason. Because you've joined the Nice General. It does not have an autonomous budget and all the money stays in the State General Nice. Also, all doctors are in the State General Nice. Right now we have a nephrology department very important. They go our fellow citizens from all over Greece and find treatment. And he doesn't have a cardiologist. And we know that these clinics absolutely have to have a cardiologist. Of all the personnel who are organically owned by "Saint Barbara" have only eighteen stayed there. Twenty are in Nice as well as the administrative staff and the trainees and the assistants are in Nice. So I call on you to commit to becoming at least an interconnected hospital, have its own budget and finally have the staff. And that little staff that has been organically left, at least can manage it and obviously strengthen it. I am also going to raise in my dentext the issue you see in the current urban issue, which is huge and does not allow the administration to take any action in the buildings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u306	Mr Arsenis, thank you very much. And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Kontozamanis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I agree with you. Handshakes do not save lives, as you say in the title of your question, nor, of course, with experiments and random movements. It needs knowledge, design, methodicity, determination and, above all, a sense of reality. These were the reasons why the treatment of the coronary pandemic in Greece was successfully crowned. And that was not why during our country's great adventure in the crisis of 2015 we led to the closure of the banks. And I am referring to this just for your reminder. No applause, no reassurance, no reassurance, nothing but a plan, methodicity and determination that stems from continuous work and preparation to deal with the worst possible scenario. We know very well that we are not done, that we have a road in front of us until the moment medical science and medical technology are available to the drug or also to treat the coronary vaccine. Until then, the structures of the National Health System will be on constant readiness and nothing will be left to its fate, as you believe. In the introductory phase of your question you referred to elements which have nothing to do with reality. You report that the National Health System is seven thousand, seven hundred and seventy - one persons, when the actual numbers are away from light years. Hospitals are staffed with seventy - five thousand seventeen medical - nursing and other personnel. Health centers are responsible for thirteen thousand four hundred thirteen persons of medical care and other personnel. We are also being indicted to your question about zero recruitment in 2018 and 2019 when we were government six of these twenty-four months. I guess this is where you're confusing. So let us go to the essence of your question about the West Attica General Hospital. This is the third time that - if I remember correctly - I am called upon to carry out parliamentary scrutiny to repeat our plan for its operation. A plan that had begun to apply at the beginning of this year, but due to the pandemic and the use of "Agia Barbara" as a centre for the hospitalisation of krone cases, the time for its implementation has been extended. I should like to refer to the following points: the full development and modernisation of the artificial kidney unit. Today it serves thirty - nine patients on a daily basis and on two shifts. Our goal is to reach fifty-two patients at 08.00 hours with 19.00 hours at night. We will achieve this with the development of all thirteen session posts combined with the reinforcement of the number of medical and nursing staff required. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And in the second phase we assess the further development of the unit so that it reaches eighteen patients per shift and hence the seventy-two hours in 08.00 hours in the morning at 19.00 a.m. in the evening. Establishment and operation of a relief unit. It can function and be a model unit by dismantling not only the surrounding hospitals but also the large hospitals in Attica from long-distance patients, providing high-level services. Thirdly, strengthening the functioning of specific external medical services, such as hepatology, dermatology, ophthalmology and microbiological. It is clear from the above that our political will to strengthen and develop this particular sanitary form and the given role of the West Attica General Hospital "Aghia Varvara" in the National Health System does not appear to be another hospital structure, but as a specialised center to deal with specific categories of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank God you've found two minutes at least to talk about this. Let's get to the bottom of it. You told us another time-consuming question a month ago that you would do it. What has been accomplished by them? Can I answer you? Nothing. Minister, when do you expect your planning to be implemented? When the coroner's over? When he won't need that much anymore, this hospital? And then what are you gonna do? We need measures today. It is not possible for you to come here every month to commit and do nothing about "Agia Varvara". How are you going to modernise the other topic I'm telling you when there is a great deal of openness that is in town? Why the Memorandums and their Governments dismantled the Athens Regulatory Plan and a huge issue remains pending that there is no implementing act for the "Agia Varvaras" Hospital's urban plan in the heart of western Athens. It's a shocking matter! What are you gonna do? It's a political matter if your ministry will move it. Someone else won't move it. What actions do you now commit, here to take to solve this issue at last? Because without an implementation act, Mr Secretary, there can be no renovation, only things that can be done with a small-scale licence. This has to be solved. I want you to commit that you will also take a political initiative to your other colleagues from the other ministries because if the Ministry of Health does not move on to his issues, the other ministers will obviously not act. But on the question I raised you did not say anything about autonomy. So we need the least to become an interconnected hospital with Nice. What will happen, will people who have an organic position in "Saint Barbara" with so many critical functions working in Nice in the way I want the hospital, because it has the administrative selfishness to do so? I didn't hear anything about it. What about the budget, where all the money is managed by Nice? I didn't hear anything. Without these two issues, the town plan is in the air and it's a mockery against the citizens of western Athens. I want you to be clear and committed. As for general political issues, we will discuss them with the bills in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u310	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, first of all on the question of the hospital's urban issue, it is an issue that the previous government, which had started it, has received it, we have received it, we are monitoring it and we believe that we will complete it. Of course this cannot stand in any way in the way of developing structures and services at "Agia Varvara", as with the artificial kidney, as with the development of the doctors, as we did during the Coronovirus, which operated a clinic for the coronary and was even renovated by the hospital's current leadership. We therefore speak with actions and do not stand on vague plans and plans. We proved this in the clearest way during the coronary period. Our political will, I said in my first speech, is clear and given the role of the "Agia Varvaras" Hospital. We want it to be a separate structure, a specialized, autonomous centre for dealing with specific categories of patients with specific programming and planning of actions, ensuring public health in the region and offering modern health services to the people in the region, who so much need it. The reintroduction to normality will also mean that the Ministry of Health will speed up the implementation of all changes. Until then, we have to take a conservative approach and look at the possible revival of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u312	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Don't go, you still have one question. Courage, it's the last one. We move to the first question under number 62526-5-202020 of the reference cycle - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The Primary Care for Health (PHY) Magnesia for the next day of the battle against the coronary (COVID - 19)'. Mr. Micopulus, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much, Mr President. Have a good week. Minister, since the primary health care is now included in the strategic planning of the EGE to deal with the pandemic, I think that the Ministry of Health should have an accurate picture of the readiness of primary structures throughout Greece. In particular, however, I will set the example of the Magnesia Prefecture. Minister, Magnesia Law has four local health units, six health centers where along with Volos Health Center, but also the Alonissos Regional Medical School, they cover on the substance the difficult work of primary health care for the urban fabric and the countryside. These structures that I described are also the axis in the battle against and the pandemic, but also the primary health coverage of the population. The problem is, Minister, that in addition to the fixed and time-consuming needs and shortcomings faced by the primary structures in Magnesia, new specialist health needs are being added, where at this level too these structures remain powerless because there is not even minimum health equipment, so that the first treatment can be made, as they say, and a possible case can be traced. Let me inform you that the Magnesia Prefecture has a special geographical relief as it has remote mountain and mountainous areas, coastal areas, as well as an island area. It is a prefecture that has many and large tourist flows especially during the summer months. So the image of primary health in Magnesia, in our view, cannot either meet the basic needs of the population on the one hand, but, on the other hand, meet the new and qualified health needs in a modern way. So according to the data I have given you, I think the question that is being born is a simple and simple one: Is there a specific design on the part of the Ministry of Health, in order to meet the recorded needs not only in terms of Officer Response, but in modern terms with the organograms that exist in the primary structures of the Magnesia Prefecture?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Meikopoulou. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. You have three minutes at your disposal, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Micopulus, allow me to disagree. The situation is not as you describe it. On the contrary, I must assure you that primary health care in Magnesia is operational and has operational preparedness to deal with any cases of the coronary pandemic. Of course, as far as health workers are concerned, and we have never refused it, there are shortcomings and gaps. However, there are also similar actions launched by both the health region and the services of the Ministry of Health to cover these shortcomings. And I mention it every time when such questions are asked by fellow Members that there are no magic solutions. There are only concrete actions concerning the recruitment of ancillary staff, staff movements, the acceleration of procedures for the recruitment of permanent staff. If you think there's any other way of meeting these needs, please tell us. In addition to these solutions, which ensure the smooth operation of the system, we are moving rapidly towards the completion of recruitment in the permanent posts that have been opened. As we speak in practice and do not remain in the words, please note that within September, the ninety-five crises of permanent medical staff on the health crisis boards will be completed by the end of August. In the next few days, a We place emphasis on island regions and within September the notice will come out with more than four hundred permanent medical staff posts of various specialties. The majority of these positions concern health centres in the State. By implementing this plan, we are optimistic that 2020 will significantly strengthen the National Health System. This design includes the health structures of Magnesia. Mr. Meikopoulou, you have referred very much to your question about the sanitary structures of the Magnesia Prefecture. I do not want to tire you with numbers and numbers, numbers of auxiliary staff that have been approved and then recruited in these structures, nor with the number of crises of permanent medical staff in progress. I would like to present a detailed note of the relevant services of the Ministry of Health in the minutes of the House, where it is fully recorded and detailed in what state the gaps in the Law of Magnesia are. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, let me turn to two other points, the adequacy of health and personal protective equipment, by which we provided health centres and other primary health care structures. They are in detail all these materials in the information note I tabled in the Minutes of the House. Regarding your reporting on the possibility of tracing and handling possible coronary cases: Adequacy in health material has been our first priority. The fact is that during the coronary elevation period there were difficulties, but even then no hospitals, no health center or any other sanitary structure showed any shortcomings in these materials. We have therefore consistently taken care of this, and today we are talking about it, and there is stock in personal protective equipment and health material. But there is monitoring and monitoring of the flow by which we provide health structures. Whenever we need to supply health centres and other health structures with these essential materials, ensuring that they are adequate. With very simple words, we're looking out for us. In all health centres for months we have given specific instructions on the management of suspected and confirmed cases. The creation of special reception and management facilities is part of these directives. Especially for the structures of the primary care of Magnesia, there is also a detailed description of the service note that I presented in the minutes of the House, where it is described in detail where and where it is designed. Finally, with regard to your report on the detection and treatment of possible cases, there is a specific procedure followed. When a case is detected, there are instructions and specific actions carried out and in any suspected incident is isolated, followed by the necessary molecular control and then, where the sample is positive, there is a specific protocol to be followed, including the traces carried out by the National Public Health Agency and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u317	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I heard you very carefully. Let's at least start with what we agree. I do not think you will disagree, but the outbreak of cases, which have occurred in recent days and especially with regard to tourists entering the country, I think it requires a Ministry of Health and increased vigilance on the part of the Ministry of Health, but also immediate enhanced measures on the part of health. I also believe that you will not disagree that there is no dilemma between health security and economic sustainability of tourist activity. I am sure you agree that, now, tourist flows, visitability, tourist activity will be directly dependent on sanitary immunity, especially of primary structures. I therefore think that we have a common point, that there should be no discount on the new health standards that have been created. Minister, I heard you. You said that all primary health structures in Magnesia are ready in terms of new health equipment that adequately address new and increased health needs and are all well equipped and ready. But how then by the Argalas Health Center is the director complained that while the Almyros Health Centre receives an ISOBOX prefix, all the other primary structures of Magnesia and Argalas do not have a prefix? You know what, Minister? Do you know what's weird? It is not possible to supply such equipment to competition from certain Members of the Co-Population for who has the most connections in order to ensure this necessary equipment. That's problem number one. Let's go to problem number two, the second aspect from which you will be judged. You know very well that the Magnesia Prefecture has many remote mountainous and mountainous areas. A few days ago, Minister, there was an accident. Two kids were on a motorcycle. They were juveniles, and they hit very badly. There was no ambulance driver - it happened in Trikeri - in the Argalas Health Center to go and pick them up. They were transferred to a farmer. He started an ambulance from Volos, took them from Horto and took them to Argalasti. So the picture you described to us, I think it's kind of magical. The Argastis Health Centre and the Velestino Health Centre and the Almyros Health Center have a question with the drivers of the EKA. Let us not talk about the picture, Mr Minister, at the North Sporades level. I will give you just one example: the Skopelos Health Centre from the five planned organic posts of permanent doctors, general doctors of pathologists, does not serve one. In the Alonissos Regional Hospital, and even today they are serving only rural doctors, there is no permanent doctor covering the island health at the moment. Therefore, the evidence presented to us by your services, I do not contradict, but I do not think that they accurately reflect the image of the primary structure of Magnesia at the moment. Therefore, Minister, when I refer to health equipment and logistics, I am not referring only to consumables, which you have provided. I am talking about equipment first to deal with a possible case, to track, particularly in Skiathos, which is a high-voltage tourist destination. I think, Minister, that if you record exactly and without the filters that your services can give you, the sanitary picture of the primary structure of Magnesia, you will see that, over time, its needs and shortcomings remain, but also at the level of the new health conditions are completely irreversible. Minister, I would also like one last clarification. There's the issue of the floating ambulance for the Northern Sporades. It's a good move. Started in 2018, by the Ministry of Shipping. We put a bit of a liquor on it, too. The Secretary-General for Economic Policy is right today, Mr Triantopoulos is trying and running the matter. But there's a oxymobile. At your own meeting with the Members of the Co-Population, you mentioned that there is no design of the EKA for the provision of a floating ambulance in the Northern Sporades and that if there is any such means at any time it will be of the Port and under conditions it will also carry out cross-border debts for patients to the Continental Magnesia. Can you tell us what's happening to know and what's going to happen? If it is completed, in accordance with the dates given by the Secretary-General of Economic Policy on 1 November, we shall applaud it. If what you say is true, I think the inhabitants of the Northern Sporades are being mocked once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Meikopoulou. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mikopoulou, the management of the coronary, first of all let me say, is not a matter of ISOBOX, that is, if it has an ISOBOX health centre and another does not have it. It's a matter of space.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u320	One example...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u321	You may have a health center to welcome a suspected case and another may not have for that and place ISOBOX. I told you in my prototype that we have implemented, developed a specific plan to strengthen primary health care and every day that passed the pandemic, we have earned time to prepare even better and to be today, that the tourist season has begun, even more ready, more adequate and effective to deal with suspected coronary cases. Because you mentioned the traceability, cases and adequacy of the material, let me tell you that, thanks to these actions, our country has done so, because we have had sufficient health material, we have managed and operated following specific directives, both suspected and confirmed cases and the traceability system, which we have implemented has been very effective. That is why I repeat that we have succeeded and had the results that we see today. There are problems and shortcomings in the health structures of Magnesia and we are trying to cover them. But they are ready and we know the necessary procedures to follow in the event of cases being detected. We realise, of course, that it is an area where there is also a tourist movement in this period, and that makes us twice as careful and we care even more for the adequacy of materials and the readiness of sanitary formations. We're not reassuring. We are ready and I believe that in any case, as we have done so so far, we will be dealing with any incident, that will happen in the next few days. And because Mr Meikopoulou referred to the floating media and a meeting I had with MPs from the Magnesia Prefecture, this means really belongs to it, it is under the jurisdiction of the Port Body. We need to take concrete steps to cooperate with the Port House with the EAFRD so that this floating instrument can also do its homework. So we are moving in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u322	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. You are being released, as you have no answer to another timely question. Have a good night, have a good rest! Holy Mary with you! We move on to the debate on the next question, the first under No 889/3-7-2020, the first-time question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of the Second West Attica, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Recommendation of a police department in the Local Community of Kinetteta of the Municipality of Megares". Mr. Bourra, good evening, good week! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u323	I can say, Mr President. I shall start with a general remark, Minister, since I thank you for responding soon to this very crucial question about an area such as Kinetteta. You know very well you, better than anyone else, because of your route, but the simplest citizen knows it, that crime in the Western Attica as a whole is very large, records first. And you know that very well. I now come in particular to a region, Kinetteta, which many do not know because of the geomorphology of the region, that it is a municipal community of the Municipality of Megaron. But, Minister, you must know - and the citizens know - that it is far from the city's seat, which is the Megaras, over fifteen kilometres, but, above all, it is geomorphological, as I said before, detached. Many do not know that it is a municipal community of the Municipality of Megaron. This makes security too very difficult. I must tell you that with the 2011 census - you know where and how many people are being censused - the region has over two thousand registered residents, but permanent residents have over five thousand. And summers - and I mean very early spring until very late in the autumn - the Kinetteta region has been a tourist destination for many years and has more than twenty-three thousand inhabitants for many months. I have to tell you that Kinetteta is an area that has been hit irreparably in recent years. I remind you of the fire two years ago, Kinetteta- Eye. Kinetteta started the problem. Not that Kinetteta set fire to Matty, but you'll remember that on the same day it was a catastrophic fire, the consequences of which haven't yet been gathered. Secondly, I must remind you that last year, a few months ago, and in particular, on 25 November, Agia Ekaterini, a very great storm, the Girrion hit the region. The Minister, Mr. Karamanlis, is here, with whom we went and went again and we went again. The disasters were great. Let me remind you that the wider region is adjacent, so the phenomena of Mandra and Nea Peramos have also gone indelibly to Kinetteta. At the same time, we had last year's earthquake, centred on Magulas, which took place last July. He didn't even fill out a year. All this has created further problems in order to create what we say in the common language, Mr Minister, that is what we are talking about. People are afraid, they still have their homes unarmed, fears for their life, for their property. I make two unanimous decisions on the Minutes from all sides of both the Local Council of the Kinetteta Municipal Community and the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Megaron. [[At this point, Vice-President Athanasios Bouras presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, I would like to remind you, Minister, that in the Minutes, the President-in-Office of the Council under number 7, which abolishes the Kinetteta Police Station, which operated all the previous years and was abolished in 2017 for reasons such as that which I experienced financially. [[At this point, Vice-President Athanasios Bouras presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Presidential Decree, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] I must tell you that I and our prolongation - and indeed it has shown it with the last adventure of the coronary - that, before and above all, we are putting the lives, health and property of the citizens. In other words, it is not acceptable for economic reasons to jeopardise the lives and property of our fellow citizens. After all this, Minister, I would like to remind you of what is happening throughout Greece - if you get it out of the way, you will see it, I have unleashed the entire presidential decree - but also in the West Attica, for example, the Belia, which is far from the city's headquarters, which is Mandra, have their own police station. So, then, this area, Kinetteta, has been tested in recent years and there are a lot of people outside his homes and he doesn't know what will happen if it's going to dawn. So I would ask you to see with great care and sympathy the creation of a Police Department in the Kinette area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. You will answer the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Economou, good evening, good week! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u325	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to assure you of the ongoing political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, together with the natural leadership of the Greek Police, with the aim of offering best services to the citizens and, in particular, to the West Attica area you mentioned, which undoubtedly faces very serious problems, including in terms of public order and security, and in particular, for a number of reasons known for crime. A number of issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection are dealt with daily by all of us, the solution of which is rather more complicated and time-consuming than a 'yes' or 'no', with which you seem to be able to answer the question you ask about the establishment of a police department in Kinetteta. Let me become a little more specific: With the Presidential Decree of 7 2017, which you mentioned, as amended and in force until now, the rationalisation of the financial resources of the Greek Police has been attempted by the reorganisation of the existing structures by the saving of logistics and the redeployment of the human resources that were intended to maintain the level of police services provided. As a result of this, the local community of Kinetteta of the Municipality of Megaron is police officers and through the Police Department of Megarion. At the same time, already in the summer of 2019, a new anti-crime programme 2020-2024 has been developed, which has already been in place, in order to map the crimes of each region and the particular circumstances there. With regard in particular to the wider region of Western Attica, where the Local Community of Kinetteta is located, initiatives have already been taken to increase apparent policing by carrying out on-board patrols, as well as to carry out close checks with a view to establishing a sense of security for the people of the region. We are following the results of this plan day by day and we are thinking about how much improvements we need to take in this direction that you have suggested in establishing sections or other police stations, and in particular in an area that has indeed been troubled by all these events, which you have mentioned. We're watching carefully. And I hope that, in a short time, we can have specific communications, but in any case, we are also studying a special plan at this time for Kinetteta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Vice President, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u327	Mr Minister, I see your answer as positive, but it is not positive. And I want to be more specific to help you. Because you did say you were studying Kinetteta in particular with all these incidents and the traits that have been preceded and I mentioned to you. I would like to say to you - because I have come here as the commander of the people of the Kinettetta region, and also of the Municipality of Megarea in general, but also of the Western Attica which I have been serving for many years and you know it well from another capacity - that, despite the economic difficulties, the municipality intends - because one of the obstacles can be the residence of any police department. So I assure you and it will be officially written in the minutes of today's sitting that the Municipality of Megarion intends - to provide housing if you go forward - and I believe soon - in the creation of a Police Department. But now I have to tell you and take note - because I have told you that there are many years in which I am serving the region and I know it from the end - and I must tell you that after the Municipality of Serres - which the Minister is standing next to - I have had two incidents which touch him. It is the Municipality of Megarion the largest municipality. It is not dealt with, Minister, nor with an increase in patrols. Because as I told you, you know, to go to Kinetteta, we have to take the National Road and get to St. Theodores, that is, just before Corinth. Secondly, both this municipality and the Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia have many settlements. Where'd they go first? So it's not known to everyone in Aleppo that has thousands of people there too? Where can the Police Department start, or in general, the Police Department of the Grands? So, at the moment, it is an urgent need. There's no case of coverage. There is no way that any reinforcement of the Police Department will respond to the problem, which currently exists. So the only and immediate solution - and I would like to mention other settlements - is Kantili - is the entire area inhabited, and not with scattered houses, but with specific municipal apartments, municipal entities and Community entities. That is why, Minister, I must tell you that I do understand the difficulty. It is important to protect citizens and protect their property. See very soon the creation of the Police Department. I believe you will respond, so that the citizens of Western Attica in total do not feel that it is the backyard of Athens, which is where all the problems exist: that is, there is the only landfill area - all Greeks know about it. There are other issues that are disturbing elsewhere. In particular, there is the very heavy industry, which supports 40% of national wealth, but it creates many problems for residents and many environmental problems. That's why they have to get some recompense for this offer. And the reward for this day we are discussing today is the immediate creation of a Police Department in Kinetteta. I think in your dentistry you'll be a little more specific. And I'll wait for us all to help make that a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Bourra. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u329	Mr Bourrai, I am aware of your sincere interest in issues of a police nature in the West Attica and your daily anxiety with which I would say that you are almost daily communicating with the Ministry, you raise issues, you demand solutions and indeed I live close to your anxiety. It is a common assumption that during the last 10 years of economic crisis all the state structures and bodies have been tested to a significant extent. As a result of this and the Greek Police, as was the case with the rest of the Security Bodies, were called upon to meet new, more complex challenges of combating crime within a suffocating financial framework. Since the summer of 2019, however, we have returned page having left behind this period. In this context, I would like to point out that every plan to reorganise and reorganise the Greek police units is a dynamic process. Every day data are collected, assessed, valued and useful conclusions drawn. We are informed of any new needs and when and where necessary we intervene targetedly by making the necessary modifications to our existing design. With regard to issues relating to the establishment of a police station or a police station, where necessary, I would like to stress that a number of parameters are considered when assessing the request, including the possibilities of housing that exist on a case-by-case basis. So, as it is reasonable to have a building space and this possibility of being made available for the Greek Police for free, clearly and as an important parameter, which is taken seriously into account by the relevant Hellenic Police Headquarters when assessing and taking the decision whether or not to set up new Police Departments or Stations. Our objective remains the creation of dynamic and more efficient service units and the more rational and efficient management of both human resources and logistical equipment. I want to assure you that pursuing the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Citizen Protection for this debate and other similar issues are one and clear: to ensure all the necessary conditions for the quality upgrade of the result produced by our executives and for the provision of best services from them to the citizens. However, what you referred to in relation to the possibility of a real estate infrastructure for the accommodation of a free police service in Kineta is certainly something that, as I said, is now being dealt with seriously. I'm transferring it to the HQ of the Greek Police and we'll do what's best for Kineta's police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u330	I thank both colleagues very much. The sixth question will be discussed under number 893/6-7-20. Second question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Institutions of arrest and attempted terrorisation of members of the environmental movement". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, June 5th is World Environment Day. During this year's World Environment Day there was a great protest outside the House, a great protest against the environmental law of Mr Hatzidakis and the Mitsotakis Government. The vigilant citizens outside the House protesting every night about this bill also decided on that day to continue their protest by morning. After sixteen hours of protest, at 9:30 a.m. Trojans removed them. He removed twelve people, six men and six women, one of whom was a photojournalist covering the news event. They were literally taken up into service vehicles, without any resistance or physical violence being noted by the protesters. Mr. Undersecretary, there's a video recording the whole story. From the first moment the protesters on the road were removed, there were countless irregularities and violations of regulations and rights by the authorities under the responsibility of not the police, but with a political mandate from above. Arriving to the GDR, the defendants have been informed that it is simply a verification. However, their phones have been removed, which I know is not the legal procedure. There was no reference to arrest. However, they informed the police officers who were obliged to execute the above orders that there is a person with epilepsy, Secretary, and that he needs medication. People have been informed by the police that this medicinal product is not available and that it cannot be found and that it will be released immediately. Finally, the individual was released after five and a half hours, Mr. Undersecretary. We're talking about a person with epilepsy without treatment. He could have died. There was also an indictment against him. For three hours after their removal from the Constitution and their admission to the GDR, they had not been allowed to have access to a lawyer but also to contact anyone else, as they had no mobile phones in their hands. Nor was the family of the minor who participated in the demonstration informed by midday and was brought to the GDR. For five hours, no water was given to the detainees, Mr. Undersecretary, only when, after the lawyer was notified, she demanded it very strongly. Finally, the case-file was formed with categories of blockage of transport and indiscretion. Really, Mr. Undersecretary, disobedience to what? There's a video of the process. Given that there is video of the incident that records their removal and the wireless police officer who accepts orders from above that a case-file will be formed, since there was absolutely no resistance from the protesters and that there was a deprivation of their rights during the arrest and always with a command from above, we want you to tell us who gave us the order for production and arrest. Was it in knowledge of the Citizen’s Minister? Was it at the command of the political leadership? Was Mr. Hatzidakis aware? Was it his urge? Why are the police officers also intercepting, giving orders to police officers to violate citizens' rights? Has the SAD been conducted and if not for what reason? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u333	Mr Arseni, I would like to thank you for your initiative to bring before the National Representation the issue of the protest of some citizens who belong to collectives of interest in issues of climate change. You are once again giving me the opportunity to explain the facts that have taken place, without adopting the constant practice, as I am sure you have, to isolate those aspects that are appropriate to the narrative you are trying to develop, by exercising the inalienable right of parliamentary control to the government that you have as a Member of the Greek Parliament. So let's see how the facts have been. In the afternoon hours of Friday 5th June, a gathering took place in the square of a thousand people, members of various reasonings with interest in climate change issues. During their gradual departure a few hours later it was found that eleven of them remained on the roadway of the Queen’s Wisdom Avenue, who, having placed a wooden structure of about two meters in diameter in the middle of the road, held an all - night sit-in. These people were not hit either by the serious traffic blockage and the suffering they caused to their fellow citizens or, of course, by the repeated calls from the police to leave. As was natural and as is the case in any favoured state where harmonious rights and the obligation to observe the laws exist, these people in the morning hours of the next day, after being informed of the procedure to be followed, arrested and led to the Attica Security Directorate, where a case-file for disobedience and blockage of communications was formed. Throughout this process and according to standard practice of Greek police services, he was informed by the competent prosecutor, under the direction and orders of which the police acted. So since it was first formed at their expense, the detainees were released at 17:15. To conclude my initial position, I must stress the self-evident thing, which makes any suspicion from you about the opposite: there has been no deprivation of any right of the detainees, such as communication with the lawyers and their relatives, taking medication and taking care of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u335	Minister, in this timely question we have reached the heart of the problem, because every time in your answers you tried to bring us into conflict with the workers in the Greek Police, when the problem is clear in the political leadership. This time I saw you didn't dare do it. But, once again, you falsify the facts and you do it, the political leader, not the police. No medication was given to the man with epilepsy, Mr. Undersecretary, for five and a half hours. That's the truth and it's a reproach. The parents of the minor were not notified and it was at noon. Get into the parents' place as a father looking for his child and you don't know where he is and he's gone and he's gone by noon and you're calling and nobody's answering. Get in their place. But if you were citizens, in the place of people, you wouldn't give such orders. You didn't give for five hours water to twelve people. This is torture. And you wouldn't have given it if you didn't have the lawyer to ask you too much. These, Mr. Secretary, are not facts I can conceive of what is happening in my country. I hope that you commit within or outside the written text will stop happening in everyone's country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Let me fix something. At the edge of the speech I referred to the Highway Queen of Wisdom, instead of the Queen of Amalia. They had been blocked all night, as is well known, on Queen Amalia Avenue. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have often pointed out the step of this House and to you personally, Mr Arseni, during parliamentary scrutiny in the recent past: the Greek police are moving and acting exclusively within a clear legal framework, which is clearly defined by the Constitution and the laws. It shall also have all those control mechanisms, which are kept under constant vigilance for any individual cases of police officers detected to act outside the above-mentioned clearly defined framework of competences and missions. With regard in particular to cases of public concentrations and of any kind of mobilisation, it shall act in the most appropriate manner, as necessary for the case of proportionality. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, and in particular the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, are constantly vigilant and, as you have seen a few days ago, it does not hesitate to take the necessary legislative initiatives to guarantee the undivided exercise of the fundamental right of assembly, but also to ensure the well-being and public security and freedom of movement of all citizens, as the Constitution imposes. For us, Mr Arsenis, these concepts are not mutually exclusive. We are acting beyond all ideology or political feasibility, with our unique compass the welfare of all citizens. To conclude, I will again try to call on you to avoid cutting and stirring events with the sole aim of creating some on-line impressions. I also call on you to avoid all those empty actions that are completely out of the sacred and constitutionally guaranteed grid of your responsibilities as a Member of the Greek Parliament, which is, of course, an uninterrupted parliamentary control of the actions of the Government. You are a quite experienced MEP, having nursed in national and European headquarters. I am sure you are well aware that all your broad responsibilities do not include those of the prosecutor or lawyer of arrested citizens, as you attempt to do on the evening of 9 July in the GDR, and for which I am tabling a document on your social media. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I hope you will feel more secure with this sacred post of the Member and the extensive grid of accompanying powers, and do not seek any other roles and responsibilities that no one has assigned you. Have complete confidence in the Greek Police and know that it always acts in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u338	And I thank you both. And we go to the next question, the second with number 885-3-7-2020, a top-stage question from the Pella Parliamentary Party of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The opening of a new border crossing and a customs post in Pella". Mrs. Jackres, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u339	Minister, as you know, on 2 April 2019, the opening of a border crossing and a customs post in Pella was decided on this line, on 2 April 2019, and after a few days, in May, the bilateral agreement was ratified by the Greek Parliament, which is, in fact, the first - let me say it - a bilateral agreement signed after the Prespecies Agreement and effectively implementing friendship and cooperation with the neighbouring country. Under this agreement, it was agreed to create a functional crossing point to and from Pella, which undoubtedly gives added value to a prefecture that has in itself great added value. Minister, as you can see from the Pella Regional Unit, the only region in the country that does not have a border crossing to the north is a highly productive and extroverted prefecture. Produces fresh products and fruit and vegetables and processed food exported to all countries, with a total export value of approximately EUR 130 million per year. It is also an important tourist destination, since it is the attraction of tourists from the countries of Central and Northern Europe to important tourist destinations, such as the Archaeological Museum and the archaeological site of Pella, Edessa and the waterfalls and baths of Pozar, there in the north of Almopia, which are visited annually even during the crisis of a million and a half tourists and which is an important international heating - let me say this in this sense - a destination in the field of heating tourism. The Pella Regional Unit, therefore, through this new border crossing, is the possibility first of all of direct export of products, fresh fruit and vegetables and fruit, as well as processed foods produced there, with everything that means in terms of reducing costs for Greek producers, but also of attracting other tourists from the countries of Central and Northern Europe and the countries of the Balkans. I would remind you, Minister, that the preliminary study of the road construction of the artery which will link the Protestants to Maiden has already been carried out by the staff of "Engnatia S.A." in October 2018, and for the overall implementation of the project since then, important studies, preliminary studies and final studies, as well as important projects of the studies of around 4 million euros, according to the assessment of the executives of "Egnatia" and the work of the same project of about 40 million euros. Let me tell you that on March 7, 2019, that is, last year, he passed through the Board of Directors. EGNATIA S.A. proposes to finance both the studies and the projects to carry out this important project of the border crossing and customs from the reserves of EGNATIA, which were then identified as about EUR 140 million. On 7 May, a large meeting was held at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in the presence of the CEO of EGNATIA S.A. and also of the Director of Development, Mr. Tsitota, where it was decided to open a tender procedure for the recruitment of scholars to carry out the studies, and in two stages, in the first stages: the preliminary studies and then the final studies and implementation studies, with an implementation period of about one and a half years for the studies and then the completion of the project. But you know that on 25 May, when the municipal elections were held in parallel with the European elections, it was decided that early elections were held and that the country entered a pre-election period. Let me tell you now that during your own governance I had the opportunity to meet with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendia, who made a personal commitment to me that the agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, signed on 2 April 2019 in Skopje, which is aimed at creating this new crossing point in Pella, on the Promahu - Maiden line, will be completed entirely by a government of New Democracy, and indeed announced that 23 January was issued by the Ministerial Decision, which defined the Greek department participating in the Joint Committee of Experts, which is the only object of implementing and setting up the crossing point and the implementation of the border station and road that will connect the Protestants to Maiden. Let me tell you, Minister, that so far I have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because of the coronary, that there has not been a joint meeting of the joint committee of experts from both sides - on our part - nine members are involved - and that it is due to take place in the near future. And of course I have also recently met with the new - if you like - the leadership of the EGNATIA S.A., the President and the CEO, Mr. Konstantopoulos, and the CEO, Mr. Koutsoukos. The meeting took place in a very good climate, in the spirit of the developmental nature of this project, not only for Pella, but in general for Central Macedonia, since the export activity in the wider region, as well as the tourist movement, will also be stimulated. I will tell you, Minister, that, as you can see, this work is very important for Pella, because it will take it out of the transport isolation which governs it and enables it to be completed with other projects. If the national road of Thessaloniki - Edessa is completed, it will enter a new era and exploit the new dynamics of its geographical location and its enormous cultural capital. I have therefore tabled this timely question, Minister, to ask you what the political will of your Ministry is about this project and whether you are planning a timetable for its implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jackie. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Karamanlis, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs.Jakris, on October 15, 2018, as you said, an autopsy was carried out by the executives of EGNATIA S.A., in which you participated yourself, in order to investigate the potential positions for the creation of the new customs post. This station, as you quite rightly said, will be connected with the existing road network, in particular in the north of the Pella Prefecture and in the wider area of Mount Pinovo. Three possible sites were subsequently examined for its construction. Critical parameter for selecting the appropriate location should be accessibility and connection to the existing road network, both of our country and of the neighbour. Let us now see the choices that were made and which were chosen for your own days, on your own government. The first choice was the location Perimeter - Uma. This location is located only eight kilometres from the existing road network in the area north of the village Pericles. The Ouma site is already in existence from the past, while on the Skopje side there is a similar forest road, which would simply require improvement. The second option was in the North Late. This location is 30 km away and not eight of the existing road network and passes through a dense and unsavoury forest area. And finally, the third option, namely the Promachus - Alsar to Maiden, is located within twenty kilometers of the existing road network in the area north of the Promachus settlement and passes through a very dense and difficult forest area. In April 2019, under the SYRIZA government, the third option was chosen. The question is that on both sides, as I have explained to you, there are too many problems. On the side of our country, for access to the customs station, there is a declared basic road with a very poor baptism. It is estimated that very large projects and difficult techniques are needed to improve this access. But on the neighbor’s side there is also a difficult forest road. Then there is an asphalt road, which serves the mines of the Alsar region, which in turn is linked to Maiden. So to make things clearer, to have an image, the necessary studies are the following: study of topography and land registers, study of road construction, preliminary study and final - three phases of studies, namely - a drainage study, environmental study, because it is a 'NATURA' area, landscape restoration study, geological study, static studies and architectural study. The budget, as you quite rightly said, for the studies is 4 million. The construction budget, according to a few premeditated projects we have is 90 million and not 40 million or 50 million, as you said. We understand that we are not talking about a project that can be carried out from one day to the next. In fact, for the development of the project, we need two years, and for the construction we will need another three years. In addition, funding is not guaranteed. You referred to the available resources of EGNATIA S.A., but we can find from co-financed tools. The delay that exists is not due to our side. As you quite rightly said, Mr Dendias, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has already established a nine-member committee. Unfortunately, however, the neighbor's own government has not done the same. As you know, they have come to a government crisis. The Zafe government is now on a bump. There are elections. So both countries must have the committees so that this very important work can be carried out together, which I can assure you, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has assured you, there is a political will for our government to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Jackres, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u343	Minister, I am very pleased that you will at least express political will to the Ministry of Infrastructure to proceed with this work. It is demonstrated in the present case that the State has continued. It is really important what you are saying today and I will inform the people of Pella about your commitment to this project. This is the second time that a co-legislator of the Ministry is taking over, that is to say, he expressly commits himself before the Greek Parliament and the citizens of the Pella Prefecture that this work will be carried out. The first time was from Mr. Dendia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister, it has been lost, as you have already said, valuable time. Let me say that the action to be taken, unfortunately, on both sides is not the same. Here you realize that the option that has been made is to really offer an alternative way out. The other parts of Ouma and the Pinus, which, as you said, we explored in my presence - I was present in the autopsies that were carried out through unsavoury real passages - were rejected because they did not give the real alternative to the passage for example the Evians, which from Uma is just ten kilometers [10 km]. You realise that we want to do a project that gives a different dynamic in the region itself. However, from there on, Minister, because this road, the twenty-kilometre road, as you said attributes, goes through dense and unsavoury forest vegetation, it will essentially follow an existing forest road which must be shaped and improved. That's what this is about. He's already open. More important action should be taken on our side. The part in this sense of northern Macedonia is much easier. It is an old path that the Greeks had actually built. It is only a seven-km military road, which, if you like, buttons on an already existing public road in the municipality of Kavarski. I've seen that part of it. So important actions will have to be taken from our side. In other words, you will have to give permission, political mandate to the members of EGNATIA S.A., to the President and the CEO, Mr. Konstantopoulos and Mr. Koutsoukos, to mobilise the potential of EGNATIA S.A., to carry out first-time proletons, which are also very important for the development of the project. They have a realisation stage of one and a half years and two years. Therefore, the mandate should be given to do this, so that final studies and implementation studies can begin to run, and then, once the studies have been completed, we can proceed with the project. You realize this is a lot of time. I do not have the mistake that public works in our country and, in particular, very important and difficult are done from one moment to the next. But it is very important, Minister, that there should be the opening-up of the market. As I said before, I will follow it then. I will inform the people of Pella of this very important decision which was expressed by your mouth and today before the Greek Parliament. I would like you to give a mandate to the services responsible and, in particular, to the 'ENGINATIA S.A.' and its executives - it has been decided and there is this follow-up to be the accelerated body through which this very important project will be carried out - to proceed to the necessary actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jackie. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u345	As you quite rightly said, our government respects international agreements. We may have disagreed and voted against the Prespecies Agreement, which we consider to be nationally dangerous, but here we are talking about another aspect of this agreement. And this aspect is about a development project between two countries. You will allow me, without being a scholar or an engineer, to talk to you about the concerns that exist about the future path. Before I came to answer your question, I also did a little research beyond the services of the Ministry and EGNATIA S.A... The option that has finally been determined by your own advice creates several technical difficulties. This does not mean, of course, that technical hard work cannot be carried out. I would also like to say that the Skopje delay today is a given one. As in many aspects of the Prespecies Agreement, we see the neighbour not doing what he has agreed to, whether in the essential and essential and nationally dangerous areas - if you wish - for us, or in the development and secondary issues, such as the creation of a new customs station. We therefore have every good will to respect the terms of this agreement for the creation of this work. But that means something very simple. We must also find funding for the neighbour. We will find funding, we are a member of the European Commission. And, as you quite rightly said, they are available in EGNATIA S.A... However, these are good - because it is not 40 million, but it is 90 - that everything should not go entirely to the construction of this particular project. But what also shows the fact that the neighbour, Skopje, has come to a fairly problematic political situation, because of the government crisis, is that they have not yet done the basic thing. In other words, they have not entered the process of making a nine-member committee reality. Because in your question, Mrs. Jackie, if you'll excuse me, you have an inaccuracy. You say: 'While actions to implement the bilateral and binding agreement, their own government has made progress'. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Until Friday when we came in contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are huge delays from their side.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u346	He's in a pre-election period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u347	Yeah, but because they're the ones in an election period... However, as you quite rightly say, we will enter a process of making the premeditated and, as you quite rightly said, this work has many stages. We are going to instruct the 'GENERAL WORLD' to start drawing up the studies, but I am very afraid that in the situation currently in place this country will have to hold elections, the process of the Nicaraguan committee on its side will have to be put in place, so that the two parties will actually be able to agree on this. I will, however, be at your disposal to inform you, both the speaker and the EGNATIA S.A., of any developments that exist. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fifth under number 899/6-7-2020 on a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Direct interventions and mechanism to address the problems arising from the construction of the airport". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the contract that applies to the new airport in Kastelli also provides for dealing with the problems arising from the construction of the project, either for projects which have not been foreseen or for the necessary projects that will be needed in order to fully serve not only the airport and its functions, but also for the inhabitants of the region and for economic and social activity. The project was launched, namely the road to access to the airport, in order to serve its construction, and the usefulness of a contract provision could be added to these projects, because little problems have actually arisen, but very important to economic and social life. In particular, because this road of five and a half kilometres goes perpendicularly provincial, municipal and rural roads, there is a need for these roads to continue, i.e. they are no longer 'blind' roads. We have already discussed and proceeded first of all with the adoption of a node at the meeting with the provincial road. I would of course like to point out here that I do not think it is right, in terms of security, to choose a level of node, but let us go further. There are municipal roads and gentlemen who must have access from the other side, no walls in front of them because of the road. That's the right choice. Of course we must see, now that it is early, the side roads and their dimensions, so that traffic can be better served. And, of course, technical works related to liquid waste water pipelines, which are perpendicular to the route they are built. Of course, there are also studies of future projects, which we must leave the so-called anticipation. In other words, we do not need to go back to work and we can now see an infrastructure that can be accepted for future projects. I would therefore like to ask you two questions with this parliamentary intervention: the first is, because these problems have arisen, the Ministry's department and the Ministry's department to deal with and cooperate with the concessionaire in order to deal with them. And, secondly, the most important, because in five years there will be a number of problems and probably more critically, I would say that a mechanism must be created, a treatment point for all these problems, so that the message can be reached to both the respective services of the Ministry and the concessionaire, and of course in relation to the local society or the municipality. I think it is very important. And because the road of five and a half kilometres is now being built, we need to see immediately how we are dealing with the problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglou, I am very pleased that we are coming back to the wider issue of Kastelion, and this time you are focusing on the accompanying projects related to the construction of the airport. So I start from the Arkalochori-Gazepi Mylos Provincial Street. As we have already said, and according to the premeditated study, the southern road section of the project, which will connect Kastelli to Heraklion - Viannos road, is expected to be connected to the Arkalochori - Gezepi Milos Provincial Road. This connection will be made through a node level. I heard what you said there's a problem there. I think that technically you will also be convinced that this is the right technical solution. Now we're going to Arkalochori-Gazepi Mylos Provincial Street. It will be connected in two parts, and these through level nodes, to the perimeter route that will end up at the airport. In any event, definitive studies have been submitted after the start of a concession, which was February 6, 2020. As you said, the concessionaire is obliged within sixty months and earlier than May 2024 to complete the process, i.e. to complete the construction of the roads we are discussing. But what should be understood is that, for both the unequal node, which connects the southern part to Heraklion - Viannos, and the three positions of the Arkalochori - Gazepi Milos road, we have the proletes and expect final studies to be submitted. Now, with regard to local road connections and the side roads, I would like to say that it is planned and you are right that they should be examined and studied to ensure that local journeys are restored to the airport area. In order to become more specific, Article 6 of the Special Obligations of the Concession Convention describes very thoroughly the routes for connecting the airport and other road projects. With regard to the questions about the restoration of the irrigation, watering, sewerage, I would like to inform you that in the last ten months the recording of the existing networks has already been done, always in cooperation with the Municipality of Minoa, as well as with other stakeholders. These issues are already being studied and dealt with in accordance with the concession contract. With regard to the supervision and preparation of the studies, quality control and supervision of the construction of the project, it has been hired by an international competition of an independent engineer who sees these issues. In conclusion - I will have time to deal with other issues in my dentistry - the services of the Ministry are there to deal with all these problems, Mr Kegeroglu. We are in contact with local authorities and are here to resolve the issues that arise and arise. Because here we have a double target. The first objective is to be to be able to create a roadblock that will serve the airport. On the other hand, as you have rightly said, we should also make it easier for the users of the airport, but we should also make it easier for the inhabitants of the wider region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I take the opportunity you will give me to present a draft amendment which is in existence and is in the knowledge of the services. I would say that from there it has actually arisen, namely from the General Secretariat for Infrastructure and other public services, in order to solve the problem of expropriations. I'll testify to you so that you can keep it in mind. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have also worked with Maximos Senetakis in our consultations, because it seems that the expropriations procedure cannot be completed if the Minister for Rural Development, who is allegedly responsible, does not accept this amendment. As far as the road section is concerned, it is five and a half miles [5 and a half km] of total, of course, sixteen kilometres [16 km] to connect the northern road to the airport. But I have to tell you that this road section is intersecting with Arkalochori-Gazepi Mylos in just one spot. So a node is going to be in their connection and not any more. So, as far as the hub is concerned, I would like to say that we are going to look further at the elements and specifications for its safety. You can't go on a highway, because it's actually a highway, one moment you have either lights - I don't know what a node level means - or a circular node. So let's see the best standards. The second point I want to make is that, as far as the city roads are concerned, you cannot make a circle of ten kilometres to connect to the other point and move on. I mention the example of Arkalochori - Dawn, a municipal road which is intersected with the road section that started its construction. We're not talking about becoming a hub. For God's sake! To have access on the other hand with a technical work, which is easy to do. If the project is completed, of course, it is very difficult to do, because the road needs to be cut off, etc. Now that the road is built, if it is technically judged, it has to be done. So is the main rural roads. Not everyone, obviously, but the main rural roads. To understand, this section of the road of five and a half kilometers works as a wall separating two sides. Both sides own the same people on the one hand and on the other. It does, then, one day in the other different lives of people, who will have to make ten kilometers to go on the other side of their field, which happened to be cut off the road. I think it's understandable that some readings should exist in five and a half miles. There can be no one. Because now there's no one at all. Apart from the unequal node to be made in the district section, there is no access from the other side. The most important thing, of course, apart from these problems that have arisen from this road section, is to see the engineer. You're telling me about the independent mechanic. I want you to let us know where it is based, how citizens and institutions can be addressed to the independent engineer. Is he here in Athens? Is electronic contact with him? Who's specifically? I guess it's an office, it's a set of people who are a team that deals with the project. Furthermore, such disclosure should be made public so that, in fact, information can be obtained to this independent technical consultant, the independent engineer. Because it will help to tackle these problems very in time. I can assure you that in the rest of the years, we have health here, we will deal with too many questions and many issues that will arise from the airport. Be well and I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Kegeroglu, I understand your sensitivity to the area. You know better than me, because you're older than me parliamentary, that this work is a work like the bridge of Arta. His arrest has begun since 2003. So now we have come to have been founded and its construction started. With regard to the three issues to which you referred, I will respond first to the expropriations. I am very happy to see your amendment, but to know that the issue of expropriations is an issue that always creates huge delays in infrastructure projects, even in those that are nationally important. That is why the New Democracy Government has been using too many times - and we have already done so three times - a process called 7A, which means that the expropriations process is getting much faster and is directly adopted by the Ministerial Council. That way we can overcome the problems. As far as the issue of rural areas is concerned, I am delighted to see your amendment and to consult Mr Vorides. Each major work done is normal many times to cause problems in local communities. To say this simpler, villages are cut in half any time, as you said, and we need to find out what changes we need to make so that there are no such problems. Of course, I should like to say that the concession agreement is very clear and the studies have been and have been passed. This, of course, does not mean that these are the "plates of Moses" and we cannot make any changes. But we need to make some changes reasoned. So when we talk about a level knot, that creates a solution to the problem. We can't create entrances and exits to everyone on the street. They must be created where they must be. I'll tell you that from the Hersonissos node to the entrance to the airport the road will be quadruple as provided for in the concession agreement. There is, anyway, the heavy tourist traffic. And from the entrance from the airport to Arkalochori there will be, according to the study, a dilemma of the road, that is up to 12 meters. The independent engineer is something that happens to all concessions. He's the one overseeing the project. So the independent engineer is an institution that exists throughout Europe and he is doing the supervision of the project. This does not mean, however, that the services of the Ministry and the EEAS, which are down in Crete, will not be present so that we can deal with these problems. So you should know that both the Directorate-General for Infrastructure and the Ministry and the bodies under the Ministry are at the disposal, how much more of the MPs, but also the municipalities there, to deal with these problems. Of course, always within the framework of some logic. So here we are dealing with the problems that are created and with a serious dialogue to find solutions for both the users of the airport and the inhabitants of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much. And we have reached the last for today's topical question. It is the third under number 882/1-7-2020 of the second-round question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of 'A one-off payment delay in the earthquakes of Zakynthos'. Mrs. Sacorafa, good evening, good week. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u357	I can say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u359	Minister, they are close to being completed two years by the powerful earthquake that hit Zakynthos on October 26, 2018 and caused significant and great damage. A special joint ministerial decision was adopted to grant exceptional one-off aid in the form of an allowance to those who lived or had professional housing and property affected by the earthquake. This amount has been set at EUR 5,000 per property and around EUR 1,000 per helping area. This decision provided for the conditions for aid for the whole process, whereas it entrusted the Ministry of Economic Management with payment. The submission of applications by the beneficiaries has already been completed since last December. It was also known that these have already been checked by the Department of Rehabilitation of Natural Disasters of Central Greece of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Unfortunately, however, after so many months the government has not made payment of aid to earthquake victims. I think that this delay is unacceptable for a state that really wants to be called a favoured one, and I believe that the affected ones should be relieved on the basis of the CFD, which has already been issued. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you what you are thinking about, when the government will pay the aid due to the earthquakes in Zakynthos. You can understand that this is a crucial issue for all professionals, because they are going through too hard, because of the crisis that has arisen, among others, from the coronary. I think that help should already have come. It would be a blessing, I would say, if you could at this time fulfil your obligations as a state toward the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mrs Sacorafa. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mrs Sakorafa, I would like to thank you very much for your question, because I think that the opportunity is being given here to clarify from the House how the reality is, according to the data that I officially take from the Ministry's services, a service that has really done a very serious job in many natural disasters and is renowned for its speed, not just for days of our own, but more generally IDAF is a service that is a model. The reality, Mrs Sakorafa, is that there is no payment for aid from the Ministry to the beneficiaries. And I'm explaining. In 2019 for the exceptional one-off aid that was affected by the earthquake, as you said, of 26 October was entered in the Ministry's budget of 500,000 euros. The Ministry’s Directorate responsible, PCC, provided a first-phase payment of 60 of the beneficiaries. The total amount was EUR 250,500, which was directly allocated to these beneficiaries. So we are talking about sixty-five beneficiaries, who were paid directly. In 2020 we committed an additional EUR 90,000 to cover further aid. And ICAF forwarded supporting documents for eleven beneficiaries, amounting to EUR 42,000. In other words, seventy-six beneficiaries affected by the earthquake were filed. The total amount so far allocated is EUR 292,500 and has been paid out as a whole. So there is no payment at the moment. But apart from the regular budget, let me tell you what action we have taken through the Public Investment Programme. We have now created a specific code for state aid for repair or reconstruction of the earthquake of Zakynthos. Therefore, by means of this code, some EUR 14 000 have been allocated for state aid, while for 2020, and by decision of last April, another amount has been approved for rent subsidy. We can therefore see that there is no payment pending from the authority's point of view. In closing, you will allow me to tell you something else. As I know the process and the corresponding experience we have from disasters to other areas, the procedure envisaged is demanding and has specific conditions. So sometimes someone comes along and says he's a beneficiary, but he's actually not a beneficiary. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u362	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u363	So there are some conditions to get the money, and that's what the law says. First of all, it must be stated in the IRS, or in the E1 or in the E9, that property which has been damaged is classified as non-resident in order to get a contribution of EUR 5,000 and either you declare it a permanent residence or you declare it a secondary residence. So many times, Mrs Sakorafa, we have the phenomenon, not only in Zakynthos, but in other areas too, people come and ask for money while they do not qualify. If you then have specific cases of this kind, I and my office and the department responsible are at your disposal and everyone involved to look at these in a very specific way. As far as I'm concerned, we only have four objections that have been made. Of the seventy - six beneficiaries, that is, only four people consider that they should have been paid, while they have not been paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u364	Thank you too, Minister. Here, Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u365	Perhaps I don't need three minutes, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I am quite surprised to hear you say, since you say to me that this state's obligation towards earthquakes has already been fulfilled, and I will not question your information at all, because my other information was said and I was obliged as a Member to come here and make this check. I have no doubt about that. Since I have lived not personally as an earthquake, but I have experienced an earthquake, I understand very well who has damaged his home, his business and wants to be restored and even restored as soon as possible so that he can live his normal life. I will check the evidence you have given me, I will check these four objections you have told me and here we are, I will ask again a question because, as far as I can see, you are very receptive to answering Members' questions. You've never refused. I wish to hope and believe that there is in fact no loose end to the citizens of Zakynthos who have really been affected and have actually done too much damage in the region. I have nothing more to say right now. I want to believe, then, that the evidence you gave me is the way you gave it to me. I have no doubts as to what you are saying to me as Minister today. I knew there was this FDA, I had this briefing at least, that it was too late. Two years is too much to come out of a ministerial decision and not to fulfil the state's obligations towards citizens. It's the least the state can do toward the citizens, but once the Minister says so, what I have to do is to check if my Minister has come here and the evidence he has given me is the right one. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too. This is a climate between colleagues! Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u367	I'm going to propose something even better, Mrs. Sacorafa, to give me, whenever you want, the elements of these people, to see if they really are beneficiaries or not. Unfortunately or fortunately you are absolutely right. The process at one time, because of the Greek insanity in bureaucracy, is slow and it does not only concern a ministry many times, it concerns many ministries. I think this has been a misunderstanding: some people may indeed be shocked to think they are beneficiaries, but they do not fulfil the conditions. This is happening in many cases. As you can see, when a natural disaster occurs, many people are affected by the earthquake and are asking for state aid. But sometimes not everyone deserves help, because the conditions are very clear. If you want, I would be very happy to discuss another question about what the conditions are and whether they need to be changed. But let me tell you one example. They had to be all permanent residents before, which is not now the case, and that has changed for some time. In other words, the EUR 5,000 is entitled to the person who is a permanent resident and who declares the home who has been damaged as a secondary residence in the E1. It should also be stated in E9. It must also - and this is the most essential - come from an engineer either from the ministry or from the municipality and have it declared as inhabitable. Then a man is entitled to money. Many times, then, there are people who have not been so badly damaged and who do not receive the beneficial privileges of this law. However, I am at your disposal - whenever you want - to give me certain elements of specific earthquakes of plundered people and see if and if they were not given this money, why they were not given them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, too. Thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-13-S1-commons.u369	With the consent of this House at 21: 20 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 14 July 2020 at 10.00 on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
