ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 17-3-2020 authorisation, under the responsibility of the Bureau, its minutes of the IGC of Tuesday 17 March 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Clarification of a donation contract between the public institutions called “Alexander S. Onassis”, the public limited company called “ARIONA GREECE ANONYMINISTRATIVE CONTRIBUTION OF COLLECTIONS AND CULTURAL CONTRIBUTIONS TECHNICAL ECONOMIC” and the Greek State’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: 'Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 March 2020 that the draft law should be discussed at a meeting in accordance with the procedure of the organised debate, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u3	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate on the bill, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 19 March 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 596/16-3-2020 topical question by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Question on the course of the procedures for the construction of the new Judge in Edessa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Supporting thousands of workers to start work in tourist areas (sea)". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 3512/23-1-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Association of insured public and private sectors - family members who take care of people with severe disabilities in terms of pension conditions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u5	Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Karamanlis, I will give the floor to the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Because of the special circumstances, I would like to take note of our proposal on the procedure from the outset. The entire legislative procedure, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, has been carried out in the committees. Many things have been discussed, amendments by the parties have been tabled and the intention has been announced for changes - in general and vaguely - by the Minister. We came to plenary, there is no change in the bill, no amendment by the parties has been adopted, nor has it made any changes. I would ask that in today's procedure only a debate be held on the amendment, which has been taken over. It's one of the Department's side. No other amendment can be debated today, unless there is an amendment concerning the coronary and the problem facing the country and the world, or else on which the House will decide that it should be discussed - by agreement, not by a majority - as necessary. If there are urgent matters for the Ministry of Shipping which the Minister considered for his own reasons that the committee should not consider discussing and coming to plenary, let us take the political responsibility of doing legislative action. Not us, Act of Legislative Action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr Minister, I will also give the floor to Mr Janakopoulos to answer a whole question and then it is Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u8	In view of the specific situation, I believe that the Minister should have in his mind tabling amendments which have not been discussed in committee, as Mr Kegeroglu said a moment ago only one amendment was discussed during the committee meeting - to withdraw them and to have amendments only because they concern the specific situation of the coronary. I do not think you should take advantage of this special parliamentary procedure in order to take action of this type, which I do not think is particularly appropriate, given the difficulties of days and the difficulties of Parliament, except for all the others. I therefore agree with Mr Kegeroglu, the rapporteur for the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u9	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u10	Firstly, we consider it unacceptable that plenary is being held today. The House should normally have been closed once there are cases. It is not much worse when amendments are to be taken which have not only been discussed, but were not in consultation for the bodies but also for other social players. We believe that it is a challenge both for the process and even for its worsening for an amendment. We won't accept anything! It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u11	As far as I can see, there are twelve parliamentary amendments, but they have nothing to do with the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u14	Mr Santorinios has the floor, although Mr Janakopoulos spoke. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. There is at the moment no amendment posted, no parliamentary or ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u16	That's what I said, taking a look. We'll see, the Minister will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, the Minister informed us on Monday that it would bring us amendments. Today we have Wednesday. In two days' time, then, we are anxious to see the amendments. We have placed ourselves at the forefront of these amendments. But we have said to the committee - and I personally - that if we do not read them, we cannot express an opinion. We've begun. There will only be suggestions from the rapporteurs and the special speakers. So the sitting time is limited. In this limited time, too, we have to express an opinion on amendments that we do not know about. This cannot be considered a normal legislative procedure. Let them have been filed at least yesterday so that we can read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u18	The Minister will tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u20	I'm sorry. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u21	There's just others here. It's good to look at the others. It's not just the three main parties. As far as the amendment is concerned, it has indeed been referred to the committee by the Minister. We weren't given, we didn't read it. So we can't say anything. At least it should have been submitted to the committee, so that we have had the time to read it up until today. For the rest, of course, we don't know anything at all. On the other hand, with regard to the closure of the House mentioned by Mrs Manolakou, we believe that the House should be the last to close, after all other public services have been involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u22	The special speaker from Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just to say, we're in agreement with all the previous ones. We think it is unacceptable to legislate in this way. I would ask the Minister to withdraw the amendments. I would also add that we agree with the Communist Party of Greece that the House should be closed at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u24	Why would it be closed? What kind of view is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u25	It's a point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u26	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have entered a circle of discussions without even listening to the Minister. So let's hear about the part of the amendments he's going to say. Remember that we live in special circumstances. The Conference of Presidents decided last week, Mr Kegeroglu, a number of things that have been in force so far. And today there is a Conference of Presidents - if I am not mistaken - to decide how this House will function from now on. I think the position of the members of the JRC is well-meaning and I understand that they would like the House to close down so that there are no new cases. It has become - as we have all learned - absolute disinfection in the building. The symbolism of the House closing in a period of democracy, at a time when we are facing this undeclared war, I think it is understandable to everyone. A great deal of thanks to all of us to the officials, the administrative staff of the House, from all the wings who are working to enable this House to function. The Conference of Presidents will decide how it will work from now on in a few hours' time. Today even the speakers were cut off so that we do not spend too much time in the Chamber. So I think it's all right. We must comply with certain specific standards, but we must not get carried away from time to time. So let's hear what the Minister has to say in particular about the initiatives he has taken - if he has taken - if there are any amendments to the resolution. And from there on in the climate what the parties have stood for the last few days to co-decide on what will happen within the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u28	The Minister has the floor and explain to us what you have said to the committee and what amendment. so we can get up to speed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u29	First of all, Mr President, there is a great deal of fuss because all the amendments I have tabled to the committee responsible, precisely so as not to be surprised at the plenary session. And I'm presenting them now with the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u30	What do you testify for now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u31	Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u32	Mr Kegeroglu, it is one of them that you have tabled and that concerns teachers. We have nothing to hide. We have in particular presented all the amendments which are absolutely necessary for the operation of the Ministry. We are not taking advantage of the juncture, and I want to make this clear. That is why, Mr President, we are tabling them together with legislative improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u33	Minister, how many are there? You are aware of the amendments - to start, so that we do not lose time - and we are coming back. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, this is the process. He has told them in committee because of the special situation which has existed and developed them. If the Minister insists, there is no other way left but to put it to the vote. It's not a matter. I'll go with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u34	If he has no report from the General Accounting Office and has not been filed, he cannot enter!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u35	Leave the show. It's happened in the past. That's not a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u36	What's not a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u37	Let us finish, Mr. Kegeroglu. There are ten Members of this House who, I believe, will not be accepted. They have nothing to do with the coronary, so they don't need...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, all the amendments have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u39	What about the parliamentarians? Not the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u40	Mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u41	Yours, the ministers. As far as I can see, they're from all parties. You have testified, Mr. Kegeroglou, with Mr. Mulkiotis, with Mr. Biagi. That's what I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u42	They were filed on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u43	If it's not urgent or similar, it can be useful...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u44	We'll find our trouble...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u45	The world isn't lost. This is where we don't argue. Here we are all trying to contribute to the best legalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u46	It's a very serious matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u47	Mrs Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are introducing to Parliament the first bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy entitled 'Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions'. The bill seeks to modernise the existing law of shipping, strengthen the functioning of the Ministry and institutionalize the functioning of the organisation. The reactions to this legislation, in accordance with the opinion of the bodies which we have heard at the second meeting, are positive and are in the right direction. Surely we cannot cure all the distortions that we received from the previous government in which there was opportunityal and many times distorted problems, where they were presented. With the first eight articles, the bill comes to modernise and cure the institutional framework for maritime cabotage. This was considered necessary as a result of the problems of implementation of Law 2932/2001. Article 1, for example, states the ambiguity created by the non-incorporation of water wings and high-speed ships as a distinct category, which is now being clarified, as a separate procedure is provided for in the regular process. We pay particular attention, especially as we consider that we will have an increase in the market for high-speed and water-tight ships. Our first concern since the new government took over is to alleviate distortions and ambiguities, because these distortions and these ambiguities prevent entrepreneurship and economic activity, that is, they have an impact on the country's economy. Also, at the suggestion of the SENA, we introduce an explicit ban on the replacement of a conventional ship with a speedboat and the reverse to remedy the competition problems. The obligation of open-ended vessels to operate on a given line in order to avoid uncontrolled rotation within the same route. This anarchy is entering order with this legislative initiative. In the first part, we are also proposing the adoption of a regulation of the Council for Coastal Transport, where the principles and rules will be mentioned as a guide to decision-making and the issues of its operation will be dealt with. It is precisely because the Transport Council gives its opinion to the Minister, who then decides, it is imperative that a strict framework be established in the way decisions are taken to ensure legal certainty and equal treatment in the context of healthy competition. Finally, I am making a special reference to Article 8, which introduces administrative fines on the basis of ticketing for lines which have not been approved by the competent institution. The fine amounts to 20,000 euros, and in case of relapse this is doubled. It also increases the fine in cases where the shipowner does not carry out an approved route to hit his competitors at EUR 50,000. The market should be free, but not inconsistent. Articles 9 and 10 shall be replaced by the responsibility for certification of ships in the Ship Control Division. We therefore treat the certification procedures which have entered a period of complete deorganisation after the shipwreck of the "Saint Zone 2" as a ban on the ship control sector to carry out inspections, inspections and certifications. This was also a commitment from the Minister and it is taking place. Besides, the removal of competence from the JEP is a clear breach of our country's obligations arising from international and European legislation, which, if not corrected, will help to call on us to apologize to our imminent control at the end of 2020 by the International Maritime Organisation. We reiterate the possibility of certification of ships by the Ship Control Division and, in particular, of carrying out vertical checks on ships aimed at and controlling the quality of the work offered by classification societies, which is in line with international and European legislation. Articles 11 to 17 lay down the powers of the Port House. It was certain that we would be faced with difficulties with the previous legislation and the sloppyness with which it was introduced in 2019. The limits of hayaloo and beach have not been defined on all coasts of the country, creating great problems as to what the competent law enforcement authority was. Also, the Bodies of the Port and the Greek Coast Guard are not operationally prepared or sufficiently staffed to intervene in cases on land where there is a large crowd concentration and a sufficient number of uniforms are required. Furthermore, the migratory crisis and the need for full vigilance of all the human resources of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard for deterrent operations taking place in the marine environment do not allow personnel to be employed for land-saving and deterrent situations. In such an unfavourable environment, where the men and women of the Port Corps and the Coast Guard are now called upon to prevent the invasion of directed human flows from Turkey, we must dismantle them and strengthen them in their titanium work. The disorientation, as the Minister said in committee, was a key mistake of the previous government and it rightly stops with this law. We return to the previous context from Article 26 of Law 4597/2019, which regulates the area of policing in the cavalry and the beach clearly. The Port Corps and the Greek Coast Guard are policed to the point of contact of the liquid element with the land. The third part includes Articles 18 to 44, which include provisions for rational intervention in the structure and operation of the Port Corps and the Hellenic Coast Guard. The import arrangements provide for a thousand five hundred new organic sites, the nine hundred of which are allocated to the port authorities of the Aegean Sea and Samothraki. The undertaking of the Prime Minister and the Minister is being carried out. The possibility of these positions being filled shall be regulated by transparent procedures. We intervene in the transfer system so that the Port Body and the Greek Coast Guard can respond directly to the need for assistance with staff at the sea borders and the island complex of the Aegean Sea, while adding an insurance to the exceptional transfers where the transferee must have completed the stay in the service he is in. Paragraph 5 of Law 4504/2017 is repealed because it contradicts the philosophy introduced by the new context of transfers. The voluntary transfer to the Eastern Aegean is abolished because more problems have created rather than solved. In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, an operational operation is ensured by the port Corps and the Hellenic Coast Guard. There is provision for the pharmaceutical treatment of personnel and the supply of their medicines by the EPOY pharmacies, not as a wish, but in practice by the amendment of the EEAY law. The possibility of co-service is provided for officials who have spouses of teachers. The question of the housing of personnel transferred to the port authorities of the eastern Aegean is gradually resolved by using European financial programmes such as those of the ESDP, as we add the possibility of renting the Port House real estate to serve its personnel. It is regulated that irrationalism remains to the same extent a stem for ten and fifteen years untreated and with no stimulus. The fourth part includes Articles 45 to 80, including provisions concerning issues of Greek seafarers, island policy, port policy and maritime tourism. The amendments will be put to the Minister. As he has said, the Minister has analysed them in the relevant Committee on Production and Trade - we have delayed them because of the prevailing circumstances. There is, as you can see, a limited staff in the General Secretariat of the Government. It didn't happen to hide anything. It is regulated to extend the application of the transport equivalent up to 30-4-2020 with the possibility of further extension for a further four months, by decision of the Ministers for Finance and Shipping, until the assessment of the pilot application of the transport equivalent to the thirty-four islands of the territory concerned has been completed. As far as the transformation of the ESRB is concerned, we as a majority approve the regulation introduced by the Minister, because it also enhances its role in substance, but also provides for the replacement of the general secretaries by service providers for the processing of purely technical and detailed issues. We repeal Article 105 of Law 4504/2017, since according to the Port Regulatory Authority it is preferable to abolish it from its existence. We are therefore following the Regulation of the European Union 2017/352, which applies from 24 March 2019 and is binding in all Member States of the European Union. This part also includes arrangements necessary for the operation of ports. To conclude, I would like to point out that this legislative initiative has included a wide range of interventions to create an appropriate framework for the development of entrepreneurship and the protection of social cohesion on the islands that are tested for the sixth consecutive year, while at the same time addressing with absolute sensitivity the natural environment and cultural heritage. For all these reasons, I invite you all to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, apparently eight minutes are not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Santorinier, you can speak for ten minutes. There are few of us today. I'm not gonna cut you. And Mrs Karamanlis spoke for ten minutes. And eleven to speak, the world is not lost. Besides, no one disagrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the bill, I have to say that today the thoughts and hopes of all of us are the doctors and staff of public hospitals who have been trying with self-determination and self-sufficientness for the best possible outcome, the treatment and recovery of the pandemic. They are the public hospitals and doctors of the ESS, who have so many times been challenged by the neoliberals and who have managed to stand up in the memorial neck. Now I'm coming to the bill. Minister, because you told us that you would bring an amendment to this, an amendment to that and an amendment to the other, it does not mean that we were able to read the amendments and even present them to us. You told us that you would abolish the IAL. Under what conditions? How? We haven't read anything. I therefore consider it unacceptable. The amendments have not yet been tabled. We don't have them. You are asking us to put forward amendments which we do not have. Inadmissible! This is not an effective state, it is not a parliamentary procedure. So, as we have noted at committee meetings, this bill in most of it is an unadulterated, inappropriate and unoriented effort that does not improve in any way the shipping, maritime and in no way improve the country's issues. The Ministry has chosen to vote for an attempt to legislate, which is more reminiscent of massive legislative improvements and regulations in laws that our government has left a reserve but also amendments to the laws of the Samara Government - Venizelos. Mr.4256, who is so proud to say that you are modifying and thus helping marine tourism, it was your law, Minister. In this absence of a strategy for our country's shipping, however, you only manage with a few articles and the amendments you will bring, to give your mark. The arrangements for the politicisation of the state's neuro-algal technical instruments and the abolition of the Ministry's organic units which defend the public interest, such as the ADAL, but also the withdrawal of the State from legislating on issues relating to the protection of the environment and maritime safety, Article 105 which is abolished, mirror the extreme neoliberal obsession of the government. In particular, with regard to the few and abstractions which the Government is trying to make in Law 2932, the basic law governing shipping could simply be said that the title of the bill is misleading. There is no improvement. The government presents the bill as a full modernisation of the network but it is nothing more than graceful regulations and formalities. That is why what is being voted on today, for example in the Rules of Procedure of the CSCE, was initiatives in the legislative framework that we had drawn up in the summer. Since this time, we started consultation with the institutions, a detailed consultation, we had tabled a draft law which was complete, and which dealt with the problems of No 2932. Because - badly lies - it is a law which is 20 years old and we all realise that it needs to be amended, but the amendment that you make either favours speedboats or are amendments that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u53	Is that an amendment you're saying now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u54	No, no, no, no, no, no. So we tell you that from what you have chosen to bring to the consultation, the arrangements that were good, you withdrew them and brought them into the bill only those that serve specific interests and unfair practices. Even with the changes announced by the Minister on Monday that they will be made to some articles, this part of the bill on sanctions in particular will cease to be quite blurred and have problematic points. Because, Minister, it is blurred and problematic that you do not understand what piracy means and unfair competition. That is to say, to run routes or to issue tickets for routes for which there is no route notice is piracy. And what did you say? We didn't see it. You told us that you would bring a fine for those who issue tickets without a routing notice, which would be 20,000. That's a mess. In one day, it's $20,000. At the same time, it creates unfair competition. Listen to all the other colleagues, all the shipowners who speak of piracy. And we tell you: it's not too late even right now. We're thinking of putting two years of criminal prosecution. But the SEAL told you: At least, you put the same fine, EUR 100,000, and not EUR 20,000. Furthermore, even now it is not too late to accept our proposals and amendments relating to the upgrading of the coastline. Reduce the time of the emergency route from thirty and thirty days to fifteen and fifteen days. You referred to Samothraki. It was not the emergency route, Minister. It was your management. Ten days you left the island without a ship, and let's know what we're talking about. By introducing a set of sixty days in total, you are creating a new window of unfair competition, a turbulence on the coastline and especially in the summer. Make it compulsory to lodge a safety certificate with the request for a route to exclude cases of ferry services from Ghosts. We know that. They distort competition and deprive the islands of routes. Finally, don't give up on the islands. Ensure the 12-month contracts that constitute the backbone of the coasting. Give priority to conventional ships. We also propose that there should be the possibility of a twelfth year for public services to shipowners who expressly commit themselves within the time of rent to replace their ship with another newly-built ship, with environmentally friendly technology. It's a proposal for the future of shipping. I've heard you many times talk about new ships coming to the ferry. How are they coming? With what money? But following on from the strange and enthusiastic and anachronistic provisions that this bill brings, it is what you are doing to abolish the AAL and to abolish the ESA in essence. I won't talk about the IAL. I choose not to talk about DAL, a public body that ensures the public responsibilities of the port. I won't speak more in detail. You told us that you would bring an amendment and we still haven't seen it in our hands. I shall, however, speak of the ESA, which is a major technical body, which ensures the proper functioning of the ports, ensures the proper construction of port projects and which, for so many years, has been environmentally-oriented, the protection of cultural heritage, as well as the rules of science and technology, has said 'no' to ministers, has said 'no' to masterplan. What can we do? Accept that there are rules of science and technology. And because he has said 'no', you carat it. Karatot with the logic of 'NERIT'. I think that's unacceptable, because we know very well that combined with other regulations what you're doing is driving... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u55	Mr Santorinier, this procedure has been done so that we do not have many people in Parliament. But the rapporteurs too will be able to speak more time. I put the clock on for formal reasons. No one's interrupting. If the amendments also need to be discussed, as long as some is left, you will be given time to speak on the amendments as well. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u56	He didn't testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u57	In addition, you have said so in committee, I think. You have received and made comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u58	We have not said anything about the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u59	We're not going to interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u60	I said, therefore, that it is unacceptable for a serious technical body of thirteen ministries, with services from thirteen ministries, Mr Loverdos, to become a party and a government body with thirteen Secretary-General. You understand the big difference in such an instrument. But why is that? Because you have decided to sell the ten regional ports and obviously, "close the eye" to investors that "do not worry. Whatever you want, we'll do it to you. It's ours now. We conquered it." That's what you tell them. It's just things. Ladies and gentlemen, following the debate in the committees, I cannot comment on the provisions relating to the deletion of regulations brought by SYRIZA, such as the abolition of the JEP. It was done on the occasion of 'Saint Zone 2'. Then, let me remind you, you have exercised very strong criticism and played communication. We have tried and achieved in the field of depollution and total reversal of consequences. We're still waiting for you to tell us how unfair you had done. However, we have also brought institutional changes throughout the context of airworthiness with a view to protecting the environment and safety. The abolition by the JRC of the possibility of issuing certificates has been dictated from the principle that the verifier cannot be controlled. The holder of certificates cannot verify whether the certificates have been issued properly. Our initiative has encouraged the restructuring of the industry and the proper functioning of the control and certificate-making process, a particularly critical area for safe navigation. We understood that some of the arrangements were not functional. We have amended them and created the local climates. Actually, we didn't create them. We've given more responsibilities to the local ship inspection bays. Our aim was and is the creation of an independent public National Safety Certificates Agency, which will give the country the prestige it deserves as the first world shipping power. With this article you are taking steps back. We're telling you again. Bring in an arrangement that will take our shipping forward. You told us that the country was unable to certify inspectors. So you're rejoicing for article 9 of your bill for the Inspectors' School. But we legislated it under article 10 of Law 4504. Do you forget? What are you doing? Significant changes are made to the setting. At the same time, of course, you are going to abolish Article 105 of Law 4504 and with the rules that you enter, the State is preventing the European Union from legislating its own institutional framework. In fact, as the RAL information, which has come to us since the debate in the committees, can be judged unconstitutional and certainly contradicts laws 4412 and 4413 of 2016. This will lead to huge judicial disputes, which will leave the situation in the ports as it is. The abolition of Article 105 leaves the country and the landscape of waste management without regulation, only under a regulation, which makes no distinction. Our opinion is clear. You want us to go into court disputes, you want us to lead to a deregulation, so that the situation with monopolies remains. You told us that in Article 21 of the Regulation in point (b) they refer to contracts for indefinite duration. You have forgotten a phrase, that there is also a certain amount of time, about a certain length of time, which is currently in the ports. I shall therefore put forward the Minutes and the suggestion made by RAL and Regulation 352. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also brings significant changes to issues relating to internal transfer and secondment issues in the Port House. For the sake of briefing, I will tell you that we are asking you to listen to the two federations, the Coast Guard Federation and the Union of Officials, to change and make a framework that will be functional and not unfair. Because from the outset there seems to be many injustices in this context. But I shall end with something that we consider to be very important. Repeat the responsibility of policing the sanctuary and beach to the Greek Police. We told you in committees too. When founded in 1919 by Eleftherios Venizelos the Port Body had jurisdiction over the cavalry and the beach. When was it abolished? In 1970 on junta, for the junta then wanted to help the Habitats. We have restored responsibility for what the Port House really had and you are going to abolish it again. So you do what the junta did. And well, you're not listening to us. Do you hear the PUSH? I have her letter - you've all taken it. I'm tabling it for the Minutes, too. All the police associations all over Greece, do you hear them? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are telling us that the Port Corps has to deal with the refugee problem. Do Igoumenitsa have to deal with the refugee? Should she take care of the refugee? In Crete must he deal with the refugee? Do you know what the problem is? That the Port House was doing its job well, and many complained about doing its job well. That's why you reinstate the responsibilities of the Greek police, which has thousands of other things to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that the bill we are debating today is far from the expectations that have been created in the world of shipping by the government. It's in many cases back in the past. Among the many articles of a procedural and legal nature, arrangements are underway in a clear direction to deregulation of shipping and port policy. Shipping needs clear strategic objectives and not fragmentary arrangements. Unfortunately, once again, you are going under the bar you have set. Thank you. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u61	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing an unprecedented situation. The attitude of almost all parties, of all citizens, of all social actors in the direction that scientists point to in order to deal with the invisible enemy, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, is very positive. But let's get things straight. Our consensus and attitude, which has nothing to do with it, of course, simply reminds us - with the attitude of almost all the parties at the time when the country experienced another crisis and with the attempt to deal with it ourselves, you were all across the streets of the indignant. Today, this consensus in this effort must not be taken as a weakness or as a complicity in the mistakes made from now on. We'll talk about what happened later. But what we are now talking about is the value of this labelling in order to tackle current problems. Of course, they deserve congratulations to the staff, to the employees of the ESS, to all categories and specialties, to the EAW, to the health centres, to hospitals, to all, and to other bodies carrying out their duties at this time, to all public officials. Remember this debate later when we are going to talk about the national health system and the need to regenerate so that it performs its social role. Because in the past few days, even with friends and comrades, I came into confrontation because they were called dead. No, some people want to die. It's not dead. But he needs regeneration. The NSA and you, partner, dear citizen, are now in your hands. The NSA and you, dear fellow citizen. Yes, there is a problem and the Ministry of Development must address it with the disinfectants and with the liquids and the rest that it needs, due to speculation by some who do not have any social responsibility, but also in the health sector, you must see the shortcomings and what the hospitals are asking for, from pressure meters to respirators, especially what we pointed out yesterday, the tests. The tests are not for the few. Tests cannot be a prerogative of some, not because that is the way the government chose it, but because it is socially necessary that the reality is reflected and that everyone has access and - deserves - to do the test, when of course there are the symptoms and everything that scientists show. So no intervention to scientists with political purposes and certainly no gap that can save lives should remain without treatment. In this context, there is a bill from the Ministry of Shipping, which was - as we pointed out - four meetings to be discussed in its entirety and could indeed have come a report from the committee that has included what the Minister mentioned as titles - because I sat down and saw the meeting - and the proposals from the parties could have been incorporated. None of this! There are four meetings, then, of normal procedure, and today we are surprised that amendments which have not yet been taken into account are now being tabled. Be careful, I went to Stepma right now, no amendments have been tabled, and we are forced within a few minutes to put us on serious issues. The most dreadful thing, the most honest thing is for them to do legislative acts and take political responsibility for it, and not for the misplaced one, unless it is amendments dealing with the problem - I am speaking of the coronary - or of the necessary arrangements that all parties agree to. The bill is coming to solve some problems. It is clear - it is a fact - that some gaps, some loose ends, it also handles some requests, but it is far from being a bill that meets the needs that we have today. After ten years of crisis we really need a review of PASOK's innovative and innovative law, n.2932/2001, because things are evolving and the institutional framework needs to be improved. Instead of coming with a visionary goal for our shipping a review of this innovative bill at that time, individual amendments are coming that do not touch the real needs. We believe that, in the light of the uninterrupted implementation of the transport project and of course with the guarantee of quality services, it should be based on the holistic approach of the transport system of the islands to move forward, ships, aeroplanes, waterplanes, coordination of responses and not to stay in a system which has completed its role. Our notice of our differences from both the current government and from the previous government, which has done exactly the same, is precisely this: we need to look at developments, set the target and create the necessary institutions both at policy level and at organisational and, of course, implementation levers. We have a big deal to do with the Ministry itself. The Ministry is subordinated and not just. In the need to implement certain policies, are assigned or exploited by representatives of the Port Authority, and this is only natural when it is undersettled. On the other hand, the previous government, invoking the constraints of the troika, was trying to sort things out in a certain way, with which we were not in agreement at that time. Today, we have the opportunity to review and update the organization and to upgrade the Ministry, what had to be done is to create a framework for the new Ministry of Shipping, based on a plan of organisational modernization, so that we also have the necessary skills, of course, the necessary addresses, thematics and specific, trained staff and the necessary scientists who will be responsible for this process in the process of ASEP. This requires a timetable of up to two years to complete, but it must go sometime ahead. You can't do that. On the other hand, there is a process of increasing the organic positions allocated to the port authorities for the ninety-nine port positions. We disagree with the six hundred in the distribution method. With the increase, of course, and the call for a thousand five hundred, we fully agree, but with the six hundred, we do not agree, because it has not been explained and why this method of allocation has been chosen. We insist on the more general upgrading of the Ministry. Organic positions could become ten thousand two hundred and fifty, as we have said in committee, so that the port can do its part, as it has particularly increased the time we are going through, to make use of the red tape today in the operational needs of the Port Authority and, of course, to see an overall upgrade that we are talking about. The maritime border surveillance system, to be clear, has improved since the policy period 'no maritime borders' - that is a fact - but it is far from being what we want. What we want would not allow the ship the day before yesterday to reach Kea from Dardanelli and nobody to take it. Here needs an explanation with the immigrants in Kea. That is why we insist, and I think that the Ministry should be promptly and on the basis of the crisis that we are going to go through. In relation to Articles 24 and 25, which refer to the Port House's transfers, we disagree and have tabled an amendment to that effect, clearly showing how we believe that the transfers should be made. However, I come to an article on the setting-up of the Board of Inspectors of Ships. This initiative is essentially referred to in the future by the adoption of a Presidential Decree, etc. The title refers only to the bill. With Article 15, we have the responsibilities for the sanctuary and the beach. While it appears as a clearing, it is, in fact, a mistake, because in the same geographical area, the port and the police will be called upon to act. It's a complete confusion. Of course, it is good that many times the ESS is invoked, when they had already denounced it, but also regulations that had been done in the past and were right. Eventually, this can be seen as a repentance and political replacement. We have tabled an amendment to Article 28 on grading. Whilst it was normally submitted to the committee, like others, it did not benefit from the use of the Ministry - or the rejection. With regard to the allowance and its extension, which we requested in all our places, you said at the fourth meeting that you will proceed with it in the future for the Thesprotia, Xanthi, Corfu, Rhodopes. We're on our way, Minister! As far as the calculation of service time is concerned, we are reintroducing our position. We are calling for what has been formulated by our President centrally for universal application in all members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps in relation to the calculation of twice the time. With regard to Article 51 for beneficiaries of the transport equivalent, even though we consider that the relevant article is moving positively, we note that the basis of the beneficiaries of the injustices made by the previous government is not extended. You must include both the posted and the seconded, i.e. the servants on the islands of civil servants or, in general, those with the mandate and responsibility of the public at national or regional level, move to the islands. Furthermore, I would like once again to emphasise the exclusion of Crete from the transport equivalent. The SYRIZA Government and the former Deputy Minister of State, who is currently rapporteur, was unfortunately deaf to the demand of Crete, the institutions and my own for the accession of Crete to the transport equivalent normally and without monkeys. Eventually, what did he do in the election? He made a caricature of transport equivalent only to Crete, caricature with all the meaning of the word, and this, of course, did not work to the extent that it needed and did not serve the needs as it was. Only for election needs was made. So we had hope, Minister. Crete and the Minister, Crete and the Prime Minister! And if you don't, who will? And what did you do? So far nothing! A hole in the water! Worse than Santorinio! Santorinios, at least for election purposes, put a title on it, "dammed" things! You have not made any progress in what you have to do, because you have said so in an election way to incorporate, with all rights, Crete into the transport equivalent for the movement of people, the movement of goods, goods to and from Crete. Of course, let's see the fuel issue. You remain in the pilot run while we have to see it as a whole, because the resident at the moment in the southern part of Crete pays far more than a resident pays them in Greece at an equal distance from the refinery. You should count that in this way too. For Article 53 and seafarers, we again point out that the provisions in force have not been applied, to determine the position. You say in the regulation that the position is extended by five hundred metres. But since there's no definition of the position with previous DCAs that should have been issued, what reason for the legacy is there? Minister, I would refer to Rule 60, which deletes Article 105 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Union, without taking into account the fact that this article had been voted on in the previous House by all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u63	Not everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u64	Which one wasn't voted on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u65	New Democracy. We're consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u66	Then we also found a point that you are consistent with. I recognize it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u67	With everything, we are consistent!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u68	I recognize it! To close, therefore, I would like to stress that... [[Noise in the Chamber]] When they contacted the services yesterday - and rightly so - so that there were no two speakers, we said that the rapporteurs should be given more power. What can we do? No discounts. I mean, the Bureau says so, but they call it underneath? This is the first time that Members are protesting about the right of Members to vote! I shall therefore conclude, so I shall also meet the request of the colleague. The bill contains no provision concerning workers, workers in ports, for example, and their rights. I will present here to you the proposal made by the port workers to secure their rights and to conclude collective agreements. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will also present to you the proposal of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Officials of the Ministry of Commerce on his view of the bill and the specific arguments they express. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, I am tabling the proposal from the Port Workers' Federation, which says? It says that the Public Port Authority, which you said you would abolish, which could not have been created and assigned this policy to the Ministry itself, within one Directorate-General, cannot be abolished from one day to the next. However, this is also important - they stress - the upgrading and response of problems. That's important. There are problems with the Public Port Authority and they need to be addressed but, in any case, what you decide must be in clear rules, you must say that these powers are transferred to this Directorate-General or the Directorate-General of the Ministry and are exercised by a public authority. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, in conclusion, I am tabling another proposal that has come. I am simply presenting them to you - I believe that there will be no procedure at present - for the recognition of a five-year battle for the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, who are unable to be in the border regions today under their responsibility, i.e. nurses, technicians, who, for reasons of service, are not responsible for the border. Why not have the right for the five-year war? Finally, I say that we will say 'yes' to whatever positive provisions the bill has and there are specific ones. We will vote against the negative. Of course with my position I said that there is no maritime policy and that is not what you are following. And, indeed, we are once again calling upon you to come with an integrated policy on our shipping, which can play a leading role in the right direction. It will be hit by the coronary worldwide, there are already the reductions in transport and the problems are huge, and we must be ready to make a resumption with a new impetus that may and needs a upgraded Ministry of Shipping with specific policies to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u69	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u70	Why so stubbornly in the midst of a pandemic that every day you raise the incidents and squeeze the danger code for the coronary - and so it is - you insist that this bill should come for a debate in plenary instead of closing the House for two weeks or at least stay open only for the urgents, especially as regards the coronary, as requested by the JRC? What is so urgent when everything by law is closed and prohibited for reasons of preventing the spread of the virus? Why so perseverance, while there are cases of coronary in the House and many staff workers and MPs have entered quarantine? The staff of the National Bank, who are in the House, completely quarantine, came from other shops, are literally living in insecurity to protect their health. Nor do they, because the outside door - and it seems - is closed. Finally, let there be elementary ventilation measures! How, on the one hand, in yesterday's dictionary Mr Mitsotakis says that we do not want the virus to be dispersed, so that there is no human victim, and at the same time that measures are not taken, even for the temporary closure of the House? It is dangerous, it is criminal what you are doing today and all you care about is not to quarantine the privileges and profits of business groups and especially of shipowners. And even focus on the content of the entire bill, since first, you pass photographic provisions that facilitate and serve the Chinese monopoly 'COSCO' to start directly, quickly, without impeding the construction of the tourist port by destroying the most beautiful region of Piraeus, Piraeus, Pieraikos, destroying and cultural heritage of the walls of Themistoclis. You attended the opening without having approved the environmental impact study as a set of new and old projects that have experienced too many reactions, including those in favour of the project. Now, with articles, even what is on the platforms, you are changing the relevant legislation so that it does not need to be approved by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Environment. Of course, the relevant article prepared it, SYRIZA did not complete it and let it vote against. Secondly, promote the provocative demands of shipowners on shipping, in general, in maritime transport, to ensure the profitability of shipping capital through the exploitation of seafarers, even putting at risk the safety of life of seafarers, passengers, workers and self-employed people on the islands. In essence, promote the full implementation of the European Union Maritime Transport Regulation, which is fully in line with the anti-grass strategy of the European Union ‘Europe 2020’ with changes in the legislative framework and new privileges in capital, so the maritime industry is treated as a single set that includes transport, ports, shipyards, mining platforms and oil, gas and goods transport. And to all of them you have vast privileges in this bill. And, of course, you are turning aside any obstacles - and the latter - to the intensity of the exploitation of workers. Moreover, in the hearing of the bodies what the Chairman of the Passenger Maritime Association called for, since, of course, it was a positive feature of your bill, you implemented it through technical improvements and amendments, such as the government's taking measures to carry out routes where there will be an extension of the winter period until October 31st, with a reduction in crew compositions, i.e. a reduction in organic compositions even up to 50% in the winter months. We're talking about conditions of a great nature and a daily working time of more than ten hours. Basically, the abolition of double crews on high speed craft and a further reduction in the organic compositions of conventional boats. All to maximize the profitability of capital, forward to shipowners' profits, safety of human life goes for a walk. Thirdly, you continue on the same line as the government of SYRIZA and PASOK of course beforehand, so if you want PASOK to vote for the bill and SYRIZA votes for the majority of your articles, but by voting against the bill. Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Kegeroglu has yet to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u72	So, like the previous ones, promote the further fragmentation of the maritime transport network in the areas of operation, the break-up of the uniform nature of the coastline, and the worsening of the unacceptable situation in the service of the islands. Under a provision contained in the draft law, a new regulation of the Council for Coastal Transport is being put forward with increased responsibilities for the Minister for Maritime Affairs, which will come out in the future. So you're asking us to vote empty shirt and many such ministerial decisions are scattered in the bill. Fourthly, shipowners will even more actively determine the prices of tickets and freight fares, the frequency of passenger services on the basis of an increase in profitability. Features, while state funding to shipowners as a whole was launched to 250 million additionally by shipowners in nine months, April 2019 to January 2020, increased the fare to the coast by drastically limiting access to maritime transport for the people's family, the island workers and the self-employed. Fifthly, it remains the problem of adult, subservient lorrys over thirty years of age with great risks for the protection of human health in the sea and the environment and let us remember the shipwreck of "AYIA ZONI" and the other sapiocara where they led. At the same time, the intensity of aggression of shipowners, with the support of the New Democracy Government, such as the previous SYRIZA, to all seafarers' specialties, to seafarers, to seafarers, cruises, tugboats, seafarers and all categories of shipowners for the abolition of collective labour contracts, but also with dramatic cuts in social security, health, welfare, the reduction of organic compositions, all for the profits of shipowners. Sixthly, the transport equivalent to new grants to the shipowners is reinforced. In other words, the indirect subsidy was increased by means of the transport equivalent. The SYRIZA government has given 150 million and this has increased to 170 million. You have consistently and consistently strengthened the arm's length capital and corresponding increases - to fire in tickets. They've been two consecutives in a year. Seventh, you promote the further militarisation of the Port House, to use it against struggles for the rights and claims of the naval class movement. Strengthen the port mission staircases, operating as an operational arm. In practice it is about the repression of outdated refugees, immigrants, but also of seafarers. We are well remembered by the political turnouts and the raw intervention of the Special Forces, the Batrachanists' CRL, with the command of the shipowners and the governments of the capital against the racing strikes and the mobilisation of seafarers. Of course, you also have a number of requests from the Port House, which had to have been satisfied for years, such as housing needs, co-service, service time allowance, medicines and others, which the JRC had raised with questions and other interventions. Eighth, you are changing the composition of some committees, such as the ESA, a technocratic body and even an advisory body, not a decisive body, to make it easy, quickly, to privatise the ports. We say that it was not the best thing, but you and the previous ones have used it to regulate competition between interests or even to favour some of these interests. You do not even tolerate officials, because you are not sure what can be learned outwards. Ninth, you announced the abolition of the public port authority. Its creation was a terminology of SYRIZA, supposedly to safeguard the public interest, when the last part of the port of Piraeus, the PPA, sold to the monopoly of 'COSCO'. Of course, you have all agreed to this and voted for it, but with the contribution of the officials of the Ministry of Shipping, whom you are clearly ignoring throughout the bill - and this is unacceptable - who have helped to raise shipping. And especially in Salamis, who use it as a samina cemetery of sapiocaravans, a programming had taken place. And here I call it, and I call it, conflicting interests among themselves, so we do not consider it to be so innocent of its abolition. In fact, without a specific article in the consultation - a few minutes ago you gave us the amendments - it does cause a problem. That is the amendment you gave a few minutes ago and you have the requirement, with the fast track procedures, to read and vote. But I will insist on something, because it is the most characteristic case of the 'SEA DIAMOND' in the Caldera of Santorini. The Communist Party of Greece has asked twelve questions to different governments. Finally, at the end of January, the expertise on the possibility of lifting the ship, the shipwreck, was delivered. There was an expression of interest and the Minister, four days before the deadline, ordered the withdrawal of the competitive process. Now, with the abolition of the IAL, we ask you this. The polluting SEA DIAMOND deaf, what are you going to do with it? There is a decision of the Council of State, where the inhabitants of the island had fled. Will you ignore her? We are tabling the dramatic communication from the Coordinating Committee of residents yesterday, which reveals what is going on. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Tenth, the power of ship control of private individuals to a state agency which the SYRIZA Government had abolished is restored. But it seems to be on the paper and worn out. When is it planned to work? Who's gonna control the inspector's work? Finally, neither the large monopolies - classification societies nor the re-establishment of the Ship Control Branch within the Port Body are a solution for the effective control of the airworthiness of the boats, while there is an experienced workforce and scientific staff, engineers, shipwrecks, engineers, masters and engineers of the Merchant Navy, who with modern equipment can control the airworthiness of the boats. But this is where the criteria for checks and the objective you set are blocked, everything in capitalist development. You put it as a priority in order to serve exclusively the profitability of capital. As far as maritime education is concerned, it is a great sin for all of you that you are degrading public maritime education to strengthen private education. Shame on you! So we are voting against your anti-language, anti-liberal, repressive and anti-environmental bill. The policy of privatising and granting port infrastructures to groups and imperialist centres, with competitive projects, the sound exploitation of seafarers, with clutched rights, objectively undermines the potential for rapid, safe and cheap transport of people and goods, with the protection of the health and safety of workers, with balanced human intervention in the environment. The solution is to exploit the country's geostrategic position and the wider port infrastructure to the benefit of the people, by socialising all the concentrated means of production, with scientific centralized planning and a change in the level of economy and power. Even the pandemic shows that the capitalist system is completely rotten. He can't solve people's problems. It is only suffering that is why the overthrow is imposed on him as a request to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions (IORP)". We now proceed to the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Vasiliardos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting with the issue of pandemic from its economic perspective, medium-term measures must be taken that our economy can withstand, since historical data are projected to last eighteen months with breaks, i.e., incidents, as they are called, unless a vaccine is present, of course. We must also bear in mind that the monthly reduction of the country's economic activity costs 4% of GDP annually, in other words about 8 billion euros, in which case public revenues of EUR 2.4 billion. Furthermore, we must support domestic production at least in the first-needed species, since imports will be problematic, while we and the other states will have to limit exports with everything that that means to our trade balance to meet our own needs. Thus, our deficits will be escalated, so we need to take timely measures specifically to finance them, which will be very difficult, firstly, because they may deprive global financial markets, since all countries will need money other than the mine that is already under way and, secondly, because our public debt, which has already been a long time since the beginning, is not sustainable, will grow even further because of deficits, whether they are recorded or not. In the medium term, therefore, to make it possible to operate the market by rotating the shops, industries and so on, as well as by focusing on primary production which will be faced with problems of supply with raw materials. Finally, proper preparation for the fall in tourist traffic, as tourism directly and indirectly accounts for around 20% of our GDP, EUR 18.1 billion directly from tourism with a multiplier "2" about. In closing our introduction, we must finally understand that the suspensions are not measures, such as the postponement of the execution of a death row, in the case of Greece, the rolling bankruptcy that we are experiencing after 2010, which simply prolongs the torture especially when there is no chance of avoiding it. Finally, we have to understand that the major problem is the global crisis, especially the European recession that existed before. We also saw it in our country with the decline of growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2019, without the BREXIT, the coronary and all the rest. Its main causes are the unbalanced redistribution of income, as well as the overcompensation of states, banks, businesses and households. This recession will not be avoided, and on the contrary it will deteriorate and accelerate with the emergence of the pandemic, where budgetary measures of the Kaines type are required to combat it, since monetary measures are now over, at least in the Eurozone, a new deal, that is to say, a broad debt regulation. It is precisely for these reasons that we consider as the first measure to be the radical reduction in VAT in our country, a fair measure which will support both our citizens and our economy as a whole in the medium term and not in the short term, such as all the rest. In the bill I will now begin by saying that the indifference of this ministry, as regards the questions we have put to the three committees before, at least impressed me, although it may have been due to the problem of the pandemic that we are facing today along with the migratory and Turkish aggression that continue to exist, a product probably of the collapse of the currency and, more generally, of the Turkish economy that is drowning in the other countries. The Ministry did not reply to any questions from us, except for some questions from the SYRIZA rapporteur for just a few minutes, literally as if there were not at all any. Too bad for the trouble we've done, analyzing every article in the bill! We shall therefore vote against it in principle by voting only on its positive articles. Now, in the first committee, we have referred to a general description of the four chapters of the bill, understanding that it is being launched to correct some bad texts, although in a very short way, as regards maritime transport, surveillance, as well as the policing of transport and coastal areas, such as ports, yachts, control of ships and tourist boats, as well as issues of personnel carrying out this important task, of the port, the Coast Guard and the Police. It is necessary - because Greece is an island country with the sea at its heart - and it is important to defend it by ensuring that our islands are inhabited and served and everything else. Besides, any area that remains uncovered can be claimed by others, especially at a time when the Turkish threat is escalating. Therefore, covering our islands - in the broad sense of the word - is a vital matter for the future of our country, which has significant wealth, such as the potential for tourism, trade and energy exploitation of its island and maritime territory. Furthermore, it is important to move through trade - whether it is legal or illegal - such as smuggling and illegal immigration, where the latter creates more and more problems for us, especially if we include Turkey's intentions for the violent settlement of our remote islands. Continuing, without repeating in detail what we referred to in the individual chapters of the bill, we referred to the basic features of our country's passenger shipping with statistics relating to the production of wealth, with its contribution to Greek GDP from various points of view. In addition, we have talked about the problems that the industry is facing in general. In the second committee, we focused on the most of the eighty-eighth articles of the bill, with emphasis on the most important and similar questions which we have said, unfortunately, were not answered. Finally, the third committee referred to the remaining articles in the bill, and today we will concentrate on the Port and Coast Guard Corps, comparing it with other countries, as well as FRONTEX, if time allows us. In this case, the Greek Port was founded in 1919 with officers of the Navy. It is a militarised body with the mission of policing the country in a time of peace, while in times of war it can participate in war activities. Generally now his mission is this: firstly, the guarding and control of the ports of the country, secondly, the protection of sea fishing, where we are facing major problems today from organised circuits robbing the fish farms - and we would like to know if measures have been taken, but we need to mention it - thirdly, the rescue in the sea which has taken a great deal of time with illegal immigrants, fourthly, the treatment of exceptional events relating to maritime transport and maritime safety, and lastly - control of the territorial waters of Greece, which is a very important reason for Turkey's challenges. So we would like to ask whether the eight thousand staff - nine and a half after the draft was passed - are seventy-five vessels of different types - without inflatable inflatables being taken into account - the ten helicopters and seven aircraft are enough for today's needs for a country like our own, with the largest European coastline and most ports. We have a hundred and fifty-six ports, with forty-five forty-five by sea passenger transport - we will submit the relevant document on the Minutes - although we do not know whether only large commercial or small ones are declared as ports. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Viliandros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We know, however, that there are different approaches to the operation of the Coast Guard internationally, since it is subject to the Navy - as in Italy - elsewhere considered as a national guard - as in Spain or France - elsewhere jointly owned by the Hellenic Navy and the Ministry of Interior, while elsewhere it is considered as a police force and is subject to the Ministry of the Interior, as in Germany. Based now on comparative data we have collected and will also present in the Minutes, the following comments are made for the Greek port and the Coast Guard in relation to the other countries. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Viliandros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Firstly, Greece together with Italy and Spain have the largest port - Coast Guard in the European Union, with nine and a half thousand people in Greece and eleven thousand people in Italy, while the Spanish coastguard, together with the other services of land borders and the national police, has sixteen thousand people. Secondly, Greece and Turkey have about 0.7 people per kilometre of coastline, while Italy, Spain and Egypt over one and a half. On the basis of the above, now, the Greek port is an estimated force compared to the other European and Mediterranean countries, as well as Turkey, with a satisfactory ratio per kilometre of coastline and ports, as far as vessels or personnel are concerned. Therefore, when there are deficiencies in locations, it is due either to the great dispersion of forces or to the incomplete maintenance, which we would also be obliged to respond to. We would also be obliged to reply if the Minister agrees with what has been said in the consultation that the Coast Guard should be subjected to the Ministry of National Defence due to the existing war conditions with Turkey. However, given the long length of our coastlines, also of the maritime and local seas' knowledge from our islanders, we would propose the creation of a depending on land-based national/military, as is the case in other European countries, much more because in our geographical area the role of the Port and Coast Guard in terms of drug trafficking, trafficking in cigarettes, arms or other products, human trafficking, etc. is far more important. In conclusion, we want to highlight again the issue of fishing for overfishing and our problems with Turkey, which we have mentioned many times as a party, with proposals for how the port can help. We are tabling the relevant document on the Minutes, and I ask the Minister to study them. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Viliandros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, in the case of the port, we want to add its very important role in policing in relation to the illegal fishing of fish crops - we will submit a document on the Minutes, which says "They have devastated" fish farms! An alarm in the port' - as well as in the open sea, where we see a fall especially for large trawls and the withdrawal of small ones because of the European Union, which we will also be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Viliandros, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the decline in large trawls may be due to overfishing, perhaps to competition with the Turks who, on the one hand, violate our territorial waters and, on the other, do not have the limitations of the European Union, and, on the other hand, export fish at lower prices because of the non-payment of duties in Greece and the European Union. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilios Viliandros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this respect, it is a matter of protecting the environment, national wealth and economics, especially in terms of employment on the islands. Our proposal is to separate the Port from the Coast Guard, which will be subject to the Ministry of Defence because of the tensions with Turkey and the Port for ports, shipping and commercial navy schools. I will now conclude with a few words about FRONTEX, which was founded in 2016 and which is based in Warsaw. It is not clear how much its human potential is, how many vessels it uses and whether they are proprietary or extracted from different countries. It is also mentioned that it has six aircraft, four helicopters and eighty vehicles with its 2020 budget - the European budget - at EUR 420.6 million. On the Greek islands, it appears that it has a power of seven hundred and fifty people, who seem to be dealing mainly with the reception of immigrants, while, since its establishment, it has been able to return only twenty-seven thousand people who were illegally staying in the European Union, which is a serious sign of its inadequacy. It seems, however, that it will increase its staff to five thousand people in 2021 and ten thousand by 2027, while accepting requests to recruit people with experience in policing, where, on the basis of consultation, there is a very serious interest from Greece. Here we would like to ask the following questions: Firstly, will there be a contribution of one-off units from the port and the Coast Guard of our country and other countries, or will they be borrowed for a period of time? Secondly, the thousands of five hundred new people to be hired under this bill will possibly cover the losses to FRONTEX? How could the new Greeks work there to reduce unemployment? Thirdly, what facilities will FRONTEX employ from the host country and at what cost? What is cooperation with NGOs? Finally, it has been declared that FRONTEX will be subject to the orders of the host country. Is that true? If this is the case, what guarantees are there that this regime will be maintained and it will not be changed by a directive of the European Union, such as those that are voted on in the same way, by facilitating illegal immigration and by charging the hosting costs to countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Kriton Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this House really should be closed in practice and should only meet at the request of Members of Parliament, parties and the Government on urgent matters relating, obviously, to the coronary right now. Talking about ESAL and floating platforms when we invite citizens to stay home, I think it's laughable. We in this bill, which we again consider to be badly discussed at the moment, as a key issue we see transport equivalent. We would like this transport equivalent to be extended. We would like to see areas like Crete entering completely and clearly within, we would also like to cover all the inhabitants of the islands and not just the inhabitants. However, as we have pointed out during the discussions in committee, the figures do not make sense, Minister. The costs you have included in the budget for the transport equivalent and the costs for the barren lines seem to be 100 million less than last year's budget. What's gonna happen? Where will that gap be covered? You have set as time limit in April of this year - that is, shortly - because you say that this is a pilot project and you will see the results to propose new legislation and that creates an insecurity for the citizens. It makes no sense to legislate now for a month later. Put the deadline by the end of the year and if you draw conclusions from the pilot operation, come and bring in another legislation, another amendment, as you do for so many cases. However, talking about what is going to happen in 30 days, not in the context of an MDG, but in the context of a bill, is a little strange. It doesn't make any sense. Now, as far as ESAL is concerned. As you know, there is an outcry on this issue, as you replace the service actors who dared to say no. They dared. They said a lot of yes to the governments. They dared to say no. And those few not saying, they disturb your own government. They disturb the plans you have to privatise the ports. And you replace them with political officials. And I would like to point out that we disagree with past decisions by the ESA, such as decisions relating to the extension of the port of Piraeus, 'COSCO', for the cruise. And I think there will soon be appeals against the specific decisions of the ESA. Even though she said so much, yes, your little ones didn't. You want to have only the yes on any suggestion you promote. And I will highlight the reasons why there will be further mobilisation in the face of this port you are planning in the Piraeus. There are the toxic seabeds to be used for construction and will bring appalling pollution and deterioration of water quality. Because there will be the pollutants of the cruise that will increase with the seven final positions - they were two initials - of the large cruise ships, which will substantially downgrade the quality of life of the people of the Piraeus and there are traffic. In fact, you take the streets of the city to give them the incoming people from the cruise, depriving them of these resources from the inhabitants. Also, it's archaeological. Whether it's monuments is the wall, a piece of them will find a lot of concrete measures away from the sea, and right now it's - as it was in antiquity - in their natural location. First of all, it's impressive. They participated in the opening of the works of this harbor. And no environmental licensing has been obtained and you were there with the people of 'COSCO'. I have asked several times, if what the public is saying is true, that there are no recruits from political offices for workers' posts in the port of Piraeus and the 'COSCO'. I'd like an answer. Is that in your knowledge such matters? Do you know such cases? Which office is happening? But you are going through all this to privatise the ports and I do not understand it. Haven't you taken the lessons from the coronary? Haven't you learned how crucial public infrastructure is? I shall refer to Rule 105 on waste. There was a market liberation and you want to bring a private monopoly. Well, aren't you in favour of the free market? What's your motive right now to change sides? As for the registerer, we are very concerned about the lack of independence of the auditor. For the floating platforms, there was also a complaint from the CEDEFOP by the municipalities. Will it be established uncontrolled throughout the region and the area of the municipal water platforms without the agreement of local government? How will the municipalities control their space? I still want you to make it clear if these platforms have anything to do with mines. We will be against the bill at first and most of the articles. However, I would like to highlight some issues of enormous importance, some of your shortcomings in dealing with the coronary, which create huge social problems. In order for us to stay at home, in order for most people to stay at home, we need some people to be out of their house. There are no adequate measures to protect these people. There are complaints in the press about the employees of Teleperformance. But today, a while ago, my partner accepted a call for promotion of offers from "ELPEDISON". Other companies, I imagine, are doing the same. Why do these companies continue to operate? Why are these workers not protected? What is the need for these companies to continue making offers and serving telephone centres? It's not consistent with the rest of our coronary measures. There is also the question of redundancies in firms that are interrupting their operation. There were some announcements from the Ministry. We're afraid they won't be enough. We want you to keep an eye on it and we'll bring it back to the House. Now people are going to work from home. But what is the framework for teleworking? How are labour rights protected? There is no real framework for how to make this process, how to keep time and rights. We must urgently - and that would be an issue to discuss in this House - bring in a framework for what is going on with these people who are working from home. What is the framework that protects their rights? As far as the refugee hosting centres are concerned, in Moria we have twenty-two thousand refugees. It is a centre that has infrastructure for five thousand refugees and you say you will close the points that these people have been confronted with. In a center that instead of five thousand people have twenty-two thousand people, will you protect them by just closing three meeting points? That's crazy! We really need to move the issue of decongestion immediately. There is, therefore, the issue of Roma camps. You abolished the Special Secretariat for Roma inclusion. There is no body to monitor matters, and at the moment we have twenty-two thousand people living in rough camps, without special measures being taken for these fellow citizens towards the coronary. There is also the issue of domestic violence. When we say we stay home, we have to keep in mind that some people who are staying home right now are the rapist and the raper. They're victims of domestic violence. He's the torturer and the torturer. These people - as we see from the Italian example and the Italian prosecutor's statements - now stop making even calls - of violence. It's a full dead end. Give us a way out of these people. Take measures. This epidemic gives us an opportunity to recall that the bad moment is not only the privilege of the non-preferentials, the inmates and the poor. We must remember humanity and solidarity again, the value of common goods and infrastructure. The public hospitals, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the government, are not only access to health infrastructures that are the common good. These hospitals are currently our shield against the coronary, whatever shield we have. I hope you have learned the lesson and the next of this epidemic that you will not continue with this game, the dance of privatisations, against what protects us in the difficult moment, which - yes, what do we do? We're people - sometime it's happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u77	Before I give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, the Minister has some sort of legislative improvement to do. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u78	It is a small legal improvement, Mr President, in Articles 2 and 3. It is the addition of the requirement of the existence of transport needs, which are not met by ships already on regular route. It is something that has been the case over the past twenty years with Law 2932/2001 on the launch of conventional ships.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u79	The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor. We have said that time is indicative of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u80	The conference said it was diffuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u81	In any case, the presidents have more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Athanasios, whenever I go up to the Step directly, you'll give me the illustration or the admonition. That's good. You've got a weakness for me, that's why. Let's go to the essentials now. I will start with something very bad that happened two or three days ago and which, unfortunately, no instrument has covered and no party has reacted and I do not know if that is the case. Colleague MEP at an insular area airport has been severely prejudiced, to the limits if you want the forest, by ten anarchists and I call it as elegantly as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u83	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u84	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u85	Ten anarchal laundry, Mr. Lebanese! That's how we call them these weird people carrying molotovs, buzzing people and calling them fascists because they disagree with them. Done at an island airport in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u86	The fascists...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u87	Depends what a fascism you have. Believe me if you have'red' fascism is worse than 'black'. Fortunately, the others left, you're going to leave here after you've continued. The other Nazis left, you stayed the Nazis. Because reasonable to beat MPs or people, they're logically condemned by all of us and to make that clear. No one in here is allowed to approve trumpets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u88	No one agrees with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u89	I am pleased about that, because you have intervened for no reason and cause. We condemn violence wherever it comes. It was not said in the media, but I did not see any communications from the parties. I learned this morning. It was made at an island airport, where man was alone - and honorably - without accompanying police officers. He went to the airport and there...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u90	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u91	If he doesn't say so, there's no reason for me to say it, Mr. Comrade, and that makes sense, right? That's where tragic things happened, like spit on him, kicking him, picking him up. Why? Because he wanted to defend his place. These guys - I don't want to say the island - are the ones who make this island clear, they are the thighs and the solidaritys, the ones who terrorise the inhabitants who disagree with them. The dissent is within the framework of democracy. It is unacceptable that what is happening and is unacceptable - I honestly say this - should be done to a colleague or to a person, to a citizen, to this violence, and we should all swallow it up unreasonably and say so. I start like this because I honestly do not understand the despair of violence. I've never understood that in my life before. There can be no defenders here of lawlessness. It can't be done. We must all condemn these acts and actions. As to whether the House should be closed down, I disagree. It must be the last piece of public life that has to be closed down. If we close this House, because we're afraid of ourselves, we give a bad example to the outsiders. If it is to remain operational with fewer staff, it must operate with fewer Members. We can't be afraid of each other. The last thing, in a crisis, which must be closed, is the House, whatever the crisis is. I'll say it as an example. Something's happening in the Aegean with the Turks. Will the House be closed? After we see, unfortunately, that the Turks are escalating every day. We don't have a quiet neighbor we can sleep with, and they're taking advantage of it. Yesterday there were incidents in Evros again and today the Turks again began to violence. Because I am neither a burner nor a reactionary one and I have listened to Mr Santorini with particular attention, he is absolutely right, Minister. I would like to say that I listened with indignation to Mr Santorinio talking about the amendments. This story will have to stop sometime. You are, unfortunately, doing so too as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u92	That's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u93	You've been bringing in amendments. Mr. Loverdo, did SYRIZA bring any amendments or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u94	..as has never been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u95	Amendment at the time of debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Santorinier, why are you doing this? Because you must disprove the undisputed. It can't be. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u97	That's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u98	A little pregnant to me is bothering me. It's badly done - that's what I'm saying - and it shouldn't even be done. We should not bring any amendments at the last minute. I started this way because I want to go to the most serious things that have happened in the Eurogroup. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to convince both PASOK and New Democracy and a little SYRIZA, because SYRIZA as a opposition says other things, and as a government does other things. There is no European solidarity, understand it. I'll give some numbers. Spain is taking 200 billion for its economy. Gentlemen of change, France takes 300 billion, Germany 500 billion and the Prime Minister announces 3.8 billion. Will you tell me in proportion? Even proportionally, these numbers don't come out. Greece should have at least 40-50 billion, perhaps 70 billion of Spain's 200 billion. So this shows - and you must all understand that - that there is no solidarity. Do not lean back on the logic that Europe will save us. We were alone, we are alone and we will be alone, simply the political system is talking about social solidarity 'doing the ice'. It can't be done. There is no European solidarity. Everyone's looking at themselves. Everyone looks at the critical moment what we have said at times, "the saves himself." That's what's happening! We now go to the police complaints, and I say that to the government. Do you know that the Ministry of Civil Protection doesn't have any masks, Minister? They don't have masks from our police officers and those who are in the front line with detainees, if you like, refugees - for us are illegal immigrants - they don't have antiseptics. They buy the same gloves. I'm telling you this so you can understand the obvious. I will also tell you about European solidarity. After Germany has eaten our blood, Nazis - why is Germany in its behaviour, not as a state, if you like, in the sense of government, but its perception is Nazi - the Germans today announced that they have fifty - eight - thousand - beds of ICM. Here's the number, fifty-eight thousand IF beds, Germany had! I heard it this morning on Germany's radio. How many do we have? They drank our blood, drank the blood of the whole southern part of Europe, Italy, Spain, Greece, sucked it to us "with the boom," the guys said, made steel their health which we devastated, because I remember on February 25, 2014, the Minister of Administrative Reform, the current Prime Minister, Placiotakis, said this statement on redundancies of seven thousand nine hundred workers in the health sector. "There is a second large group of workers concerned with the doctors of the EEAS and since last week seven thousand nine hundred workers and health staff have been placed under availability." So, then, the Minister, the current Prime Minister, was pleased to break up the public health system. Through the neo-liberal logic of some in the New Democracy they do not realize that we need to have a public health system. Let there be the private one at the same time, we do not say no, but there should also be the public health system. Without a public health system there is really nothing for the health of citizens. We need to get this straight. Let's go to the masks. I'll tell you something very simple and I'll combine it, Minister, with the obvious. For two months the Chinese enlisted on the street those who did not wear masks. Listen to the measure, Minister, because that is where we had worse cases, more dead, but the matter is over and we are still waiting. For two months who was not wearing a mask was arrested. We even managed in hospitals not to have masks, not on the road, and where there is a mask selling 5 euros, 10 euros, 20 euros. I was listening to Georgiad yesterday saying he was going to hit speculation. Get on TV stations and watch. The six masks of 20 euros and the five masks of 25 euros, two cotton masks of 10 euros! Christ and God bless you! I am telling you why this government is saying, but unfortunately it does not. And the worst of all is that Greece can't produce masks. Shouldn't we have production? We have destroyed the economic fabric of a country that is producing products, and we cannot even make masks. We expect imports, when we speak in Australia, Mr Santorinier, the Australian state is preparing robot farming, the fifth generation and not the fourth one. I'm talking in here for the fourth and fifth time in here and they're looking at me weird. It is a fifth generation of agricultural production and the RGS company along with the "DIGITAL PHARMA" which is a consortium with the university and with the country and with the government implements a robotic farming program, robot farming monitoring, machinery. These are unauthorized things. I'm saying this to understand that we don't produce, we don't produce a mask. Listen a little, Minister, because you are trapped in the logic of the European Union, you have the following problem: you have been entangled yourself. Ethyl alcohol can only be obtained from countries in the European Union. As soon as Europe was alerted, they did not give us ethyl alcohol, which means that we could not do antiseptic, while we could produce ethyl alcohol, but we could also have antiseptic. I put pressure on Adoni Georgiad two days now to make legislative intervention - I do not know if he did it - to import from a third country because we have no antiseptics, because we do not produce anything. Because I also produce products, Minister, and we have known each other for years - unfortunately, raw materials come from abroad. When a country cannot produce ethyl alcohol what public health? We're talking about ethyl alcohol and antiseptic about hands. What public health? And we expect the European Union to give us the green light to take from a third country such as Russia, which has tons of ethyl alcohol. And I asked the Minister to intervene - I don't know if he did it, I find him too fast in his reflexes, so that he doesn't do it until this morning - so that the companies can buy and do antiseptics. So, what should we talk about? Which country are we talking about? We're not really producing anything. And listen, let's talk more serious. denatured ethyl alcohol shall not be imported from third countries. Germany receives a ton of it. Greece is waiting in the Community directive. Legislative regulation needs and I still expect them to do so. Because the Prime Minister I put it to him yesterday, Mr. Plakkatakis, in his honor, accepted it, wrote it, and he tells me it will be done. This cannot be the case. It can't be done. We're too late. Let's go to the rest. I would like a little more time, Mr President. Let's go to health. I don't understand why the army isn't moving. We have military doctors and mobile units. Let's mobilize these too, Minister. Let's help. We have an emergency. Because we don't have a direct trace of the cases with a test. I was listening to Mr. Kegeroglu here, and he's right. We just don't have a test, and we don't say it. We're afraid to tell the truth and we're making every teacher lie on TV that we don't have to, we don't have to. I mean, I'll have the virus and take it to my child, who's 20 years old, and my wife and my colleague. I need to know. There are no tests because you have cut from everywhere and from the public health of each line. It's self-evident. So, the Germans, why do they all do tests? Why do the Germans say 'whoever wants to do a test'? I also said yesterday. The quarantines must come out of town. We need to find places outside of Athens. We implemented it with ATTICA. I mean, the ones with the cases. If we want to host them, they can't get into hospitals that have other units inside. They have orthopaedic, radiological. There's a lot of other illnesses. Why would they get into the same space? That's what's going on in Spain right now. That's how the Germans do. That's how serious countries do. We put them all together in the same hospital and twenty doctors here, thirty doctors there, ten doctors out there. And they are doctors working with doctors who can treat troubled ones. And above all, at some point the penalties should be tightened up to those who do not listen to the state, Minister. All right, good call for individual responsibility, but you see that the Greek is inexperienced. To discipline, he must take responsibility himself. Impairment of penalties. Those who don't discipline, be punished. You can't walk around the beach with each other and kiss him if you don't understand. The state needs to take action too. But there is something else that really does not happen here. Check the price of oil. In some areas of Greece it's still cold. It's not possible that the price of oil when it's $40 a barrel has the same price as the price it had when it was $90 a barrel. It's gross profit. Check them. It can't be done. Check the food prices that have been uploaded over the last few days. It's a mess. Complaints are being made. Do something. I heard the Minister say about a million fine. You know, Greece has no problem with legislation or measures. Greece has a problem in implementing the measures and in implementing the law. Here's the big deal. We have a polynomial. And by closing, I would like to welcome Mr. Gerapetritis to the line of Greek Solution. This morning he made the statement: 'We are aware of the value of having closed structures to ensure public health'. He said so, because the illegal immigrants who come do not have tests. I've said it a thousand times. They're not being dealt with unfortunately. Because they're people, because they have to have the self-evidents, because they have to be examined for the rest of them next door. They are never considered, Minister. You put them, take them wherever you want. Well, that thing has to stop. In the line of reason, then, the New Democracy comes, but it comes with the deafested one that is the longest line of distance. Come in the straight direction. Uninhabited islands. To have them there with special structures and spaces, with medical treatment, quarantine and with control, and those who have prerequisites and who have health and well-being, can in one month go to their own countries. If they're entitled to asylum, they'll get asylum. And that's what they say with Gia, who came a whole ship - you're also the Minister of Shipping, unfortunately, we've been personal friends for years - going through Asia Minor. And don't tell me he was going to Italy. It's a fairy tale, because the fuel's coming this far. So I say: To arrive without control on a ship filled with a hundred and ninety people and to hire them, it turns out to be in Gia, and to take them down and take them out in secret and stand by Horopo and then in Malakasa, that means settlement. You said no others would come. Today, seventy-three learned. Not only do they come - they may from Evros not come in - but they come in from everywhere. We have an invasion. And here's the question. Why do the channels continue to call those who come, still immigrants? Especially those who come to Evros. Thirty-five people were arrested, he says, from Nepal. Is there a war in Nepal? Why are they immigrants? Thirty-five immigrants entered Evros, he says. Who? They're smuggled, they're illegal incoming. It's an invasion. How are we gonna change that? Let me also tell the Minister that the port didn't do his job well. But the worst of all is that you are now changing international conditions. The agreement made by the European Union with Turkey is that these people who enter mainland Greece will not go back. The way you did, unfortunately, since you did not change the agreement with Europeans, those who live in mainland Greece, will stay here, will not be able to go to Turkey. They won't be expelled. And you've lost the ball. The ball's gone. You have the pretext of the coronary now and you do nothing about illegal immigrants. Take them from here and from there. It's wrong. In Kastelorizo the number is three times the number, my Minister - disprove me - illegal immigrants from the inhabitants and Kastelorizo is not a random little island, it is not a rocky island. It is the line of defense, the "last" of the Greek state. For me, Cyprus is the defensive line, but the Greek state is Kastelorizo and we have three-fold residents of illegal immigrants compared to the locals. Let me tell you differently: If I was a minister, there wouldn't be a single illegal immigrant upstairs. I'd take them to an uninhabited island or somewhere else. Get them out of there! Because it's a fifth convoy. We don't know if they're just illegal immigrants. 90% is twenty-two-five years old. We don't know where they came from and we don't know where they're going from. Also here we'll close. I was very pleased that, Mr Loverdos, I had raised this in here, and the SYRIZA's gentlemen for twenty months and for eight months did not inform the Prime Minister that Greece had about eight armoured confiscations. It's what the Austrians sent us. I told the Prime Minister yesterday, who gladly said to me: “Have you seen what the Austrians sent? A armored like this.’
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u99	I saw it. And it's amazing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u100	So we had eight such confiscations to Piraeus. SYRIZA confiscated them or rather the Port, not you. And they stayed there and smuggled there for twenty months, rustled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u101	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u102	It was a confiscation of illegal weapons. It's American and some are Russian. That's what they told me, at least. I'm not an expert, but I know they were there with smashed tires. So he ordered the Prime Minister yesterday after we closed the phone, searched it, confirmed it and they're all going to Evros. That is to say, we are delighted with the one bite that sends us like the indigenous Austria - good - that we already have eight of them armoured and have them rusted. And there are fifty two ministers, the Prime Minister. It's not the Prime Minister's fault here. The service actors, the port, his ministers, no one knew about it? How did I know? And I was glad he did that on the spot, too. And they're leaving eight now, not one, that's multi-activity. They're not randomly armored. I am also pleased with all the other proposals that the Prime Minister has accepted, as well as the money you are going to give to the market. But I'm going to say that. With aspirin, the gangrane you don't cure her. What the Prime Minister said, because of financial weakness, is aspirins. We need to understand that we will all suffer the suffering in the next few months. Six to seven months will last for this story. Because in two months' time the coronary will end, ladies and gentlemen, we will have it for at least one year. So it is very difficult, not for the government - I do not care about the government - but about the country and the country. There's a businessman whose turnover has dropped 70 percent in the last two days. 70% of my company's turnover fell, which means I'm having a hard time in one or two months to cope with payroll and all of this. Of course, we still have semimeters. A percentage, he says, of the wages will be paid by the government. Oh, no! What happened in the Netherlands, what happened in Germany, what happened in Spain. You want to help the businessman? Give the employee the wages directly you and say "I'll pay you for six months, until we get out of the crisis". Semimeters and aspirins are not cured by the gangrene. It rots the thing and in the end it will take the leg and the two legs of the Greek economy, because we are lame right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u103	We are entering the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Loverdo, did you ask why you were ahead of me or did I make a mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u105	Then Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that our homeland, our continent, and humanity as a whole, is going through a very important crisis that began as a virus that then became a pandemic, but has finally been extended to an overall crisis that now concerns all the manifestations of our lives. It is difficult to imagine someone who would disagree with the view that this crisis must be fought to deal with it all together. And I don't just mean all of us Greeks together, who of course have to side with all our ideological and other disagreements, so that we can contribute with all the forces we have in this struggle, but I mean all the citizens of this world together. Let me point out here that for me it is particularly important that, just a few days from the crisis at our borders with the helpless people who have been used as a besieged cloak by fascist Turkey and the completely illegal reaction of our country to this development, we are now all called upon to realize that if we have a chance of facing this global health problem, which is now threatening our entire planet, this possibility is based on our ability to work with all 'others' people on this planet. All 'the others', of course, included inevitably thousands of refugees and immigrants who are currently outside our borders. Let me say it otherwise, let me just say it that one more kid will understand: Now? Now, what point can anyone find in any enclosure, national, ideological, religious or any other, when what they enclosed, in order to safeguard their purity, at any moment at all risk of having no more? So now that we are gradually beginning to realize that in a world so economically globalised and technologically connected, no major challenge can be tackled without the help of all of us, and those who like and those who do not like and those who are Christians and those who are not, and those who are not, Christians and those who are both atheists and the right and the left and those who are safe in their homes, like us, and those who are trying to survive unscrupulously and statelessly with their children on the shoulders. Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are in trouble, good or bad, we will have to work with even those who we cannot understand, and obviously we only hate them for that reason. As you can see, since Mer25 we believe wholeheartedly in the possibility of a intercultural and intercultural global agreement, we could in no way believe, with passion, in the possibility of our national understanding, in the possibility of uniting all our compatriots, in order to give all together a battle that has already begun without asking any of us. Micro-party benefits and party designs show criminal micropsy and abundant in the present conditions. So get away from us. However, in Mera25, believing that the analysis of our mistakes as a coordinate society and a state is necessary so that they will not be repeated for the common good in future, we must - as always - make a few comments. Observation one. The crisis we are going through is a pandemic and therefore goes some way beyond all the individual state policies that have been carried out. However, this pandemic, as you would notice, has found some countries fortified and others completely helpless. We certainly belong to the latter, and that - let me say - did not happen to us. It is a result of our submission within ten years in three different, completely, absurd and totally inefficient monuments, which literally unblocked our National Health System. So the coroner now found us with seven thousand fewer doctors and almost so many less nurses than we need in normal conditions. He also found us with intensive treatment units that are not sufficient - as you all know - often even for weekend traffic. How will it be enough now, which may need intensive treatment units for thousands of our compatriots at the same time, when in fact the government responds to this situation with the announcement of recruitment of only two thousand people, who initially let it be implied that they will be doctors and finally yesterday, through the complaint of the Federation of Hospital Doctors of Greece, we learn that there is not a single subsidiary for a sample among them? So then we have every reason to worry that the mistakes of the past are repeated, even increased. Secondly, as you all know, in the coming months the global economy and much more, of course, the economy of our small debt-government will face the total collapse. A very large proportion of our population, therefore, will become more impoverished by the vast majority of the Greeks in the last decade, and this will probably happen in a horrific and rapid way. So, what are we going to do to protect them? How are we going to secure the resources for this protection? Will we be content with the provocative wishes of the Eurogroup, which has decided about 'the life-saving one', except, of course, the banks that will give it the same and, I would say, let you know, with our own money? Will we look around as a political success of our government our supposedly official release from Brussels for the goal of the primary surplus of 3.5%, or will we look into the eyes at last, the Greek people and tell him the truth? That, in other words, the illegal priesthood of Europe has never freed us from this objective, but just the day before, in its decisions, it has simply found that it is no longer possible to achieve any primary surplus in the next year for any country of Europe, of course? So what did he say? He said to us: 'After that, it is impossible for your economy to have rather than a very large deficit this year, we are giving you the surplus, which you would not achieve.' Do you know what this is called to the speaking, ladies and gentlemen? It's called free gift. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it is important, ladies and gentlemen, at this very moment, that we make the choice to look into people and tell them the truth, or that we remain at the constant choice of all the governments that I personally know, that is to say, to try to manage communications problems, so that they will ultimately have the least possible political costs. It is important - I shall end quickly, Mr President - that if we continue to mock them now, which is now under threat, and their own lives will at some point be taken away from us at some point from the sole support that every political representation has, that is, support from the people who elected it. How dare we ask them to limit themselves and deny their self-evident democratic freedoms if we do not permanently tell them the absolute truth? The truth, as far as Eurogroup's so-called gifts are concerned, is, unfortunately, that they are exhausted in loans to every country concerned in Europe, who else? The famous ESS, the well-known European support mechanism. What does the ESM's loan statute say about the loans it provides? That there is a need for a loan on the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding, that is, a memorandum must be concluded between the mechanism and the country in which the loan is applied for, and indeed the terms known - particularly to us - burdensome Memorandum terms. At a time when the population of the European Union is seriously threatened, then, some schizophrenics - in our opinion - are seeing new cigarillos in Brussels. We're gonna let them do it again? It's never too late to leave the past and claim our self-evident fairness. You have, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the glorious historical opportunity in this deeply dystopic context, coronary and immigration aiders, to relieve the country of its enslavement to the completely ineffective and deeply destructive policies imposed by the troika for so many years. Whatever happened, it's done. Make a decision today, unilaterally, to do what is self-evident, as a self-headed government in Greece, to shield the health, now that you have been able to do, with thousands of recruitments, even if those who have forgotten it do not approve it. Finally, stop asking for any approval before doing so. That is to say, protect your population, your herd. It is time to behave as a government of a free state and indeed, as a state without a people does not exist, I think it is time you did your own internal revolution too. Our Prime Minister, you are a young man with a unique opportunity in his hands. Please stand up to the circumstances, to seize the opportunity and be brave, defending our people and thus, by an exemplary captive who have been so far, to be transformed into an ideal escapee by saving or at least defending up to the last blood ranid, the Greek people, who, if you do - believe me - will immediately prove that it is worth the above. Otherwise, you will lose him once and for all and I fear with him that you will perhaps lose our only chance of surpassing this pandemic with the smallest human losses. Thank you very much and forgive me for overcoming. It's the emergency, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Hetas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr President, I will be very brief. I should like to begin by congratulating the families of the five dead, who have so far given our strongest wishes to the eleven fellow people, who are now invaded and who are fighting for their lives. I think that this is how we should start through the House and give power and courage to these people. You know what? All of this - the several hours we have now, we think and we think about a lot of things. I think that all of this, which we live when we get out of this dark tunnel at some point, gives us the opportunity to reconstitute all of us in this country and reconstitute the country. I think we are given an opportunity, when all this is done - but we must take the opportunity and take advantage of it - to all of us both as human beings and as citizens, but also as a state, stronger, wiser, more organisational, more honest. Because we were never honest in this country. A lot of people weren't, anyway. We have an opportunity to organise the state, the state, even better, to go out more enthusiastically, to limit the lame which has been ruled in many key positions and have been appointed in many key positions in this country. We are given the opportunity to create a serious health system, which we never had, because all we cared about was eating, smiling, stealing from drugs, "branding", helping our own people, get rid of people. We have an opportunity to set up a serious economy, a serious education, and we have learned two unknown words about the Greek, because it is not only the fault of what we call the state, but also of the citizens: individual responsibility. Unfortunately, I will say it by displeasing the Greeks and Greek women - the words were unknown to us and we show a person, which is disappointing by a great mass. So we invite them and I invite them today from the Step, since we have learned and learned what individual responsibility means, to make sure you respect your fellow humans. What else did we learn these days when we're going to find out the next few days or months? We have learned to appreciate the work of certain people, doctors, nurses, workers of the Armed Forces, Police, Firefighting, people who had turned their backs on them as a state over the past years, who had them on the margins and had them with 800 and 1,000 euros. They are these people who fight and keep our homeland up and the doctors and nurses, but also our Armed Forces, our Police and everyone else. These people must begin to be rewarded, not just with applause. I feel very proud, once again, that I am a member of the Greek Solution and I am serving this party, because I have, with great satisfaction, seen a party with proposals and with a President-in-Office of the Council on what he proposed, implement one - one, step by step. I feel very proud of it. For the allowance, therefore, to doctors, nurses, medical staff, to reduce the VAT they have proposed, to support liquidity, so that the market does not collapse, in order to defer tax payments, the State covers wage burden - the cost - of businesses. We must move quickly - now that the ministers are talking about announcing other measures - so that the Garden Customs can be closed. It is part of the proposals, which have not yet been implemented. Inspection of strict and shameful gains, even now, that we are talking about micro-algae trying to "brand" by investing in the fear of the world. Let's close the tolls. To say 'no' to auctions and to say stop from 1 May the auctions. I don't know if we can change it. It'll still be very fresh. Since we are in a phase of conscientiousness, unity and self-criticism, we need to talk about the individual responsibility of the parties that have been ruling. Let us not just ask for individual responsibility from the citizens. Look for individual responsibility for you too, who have commanded and ruled that country and dismantled health, national health and public health. So look for your individual responsibility. Because you have a huge responsibility to dismantle all these years and put thousands of doctors, thousands of nurses, and now we are calling for them to come back and help save our country. I conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - by saying that I do not wish to believe that, by exploiting the mandatory incarceration of Greeks in the homes, it is a project of spreading illegal immigrants into the mainland. I cannot believe that this is the case by the New Democracy Government. Tell us what's going on with the illegal immigrants, because the boats are coming again. We have a statement today from the Vice-President of the North Aegean that a hundred ten three - I will submit them later in the Minutes - entered Lesvos. Thirty thousand walk around Lesvos, while the Greek is incarcerated in his home, and they go around our islands and the mainland like nothing's wrong. I will also present to you the appeal of the Mayor of Paionia, Mr. Zionides: "Get them together. They are dangerous." The mayor says so. I'm not saying it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] It is not for health reasons that the Greeks are locked in his house - and he does well to go out only when we are sure when the experts tell us that we can go out - but at the same time, the time, illegal immigration bombs move freely in our home country. We should look at this very important issue and see it immediately, please, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u109	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, is requested to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, which is the delegation of the National Representation, and Minister, before I say a few words about the draft law, I would like to dwell in a special way on the two major crises that Greece is currently experiencing, and of course I am talking about the issue of our relations with Turkey, the events in Evros and the pursuits of Turkey that we have now most appreciated will be concerned with in 2020 and, of course, the issue of thecorn. As far as the asymmetrical threat to the Greek border is concerned, I will not be tired, ladies and gentlemen, of congratulating the staff of the police, the security bodies in general, the firefighting, the port, but above all, the Army for what they have done and what they have done these days and have not allowed a threat to our country to be turned into a routine. I am not going to be pleased - and neither of us should be pleased - with those who think about these hours thinking about ideologically preoccupied and unaware of history and against and undermining the effort made by the country in these difficult circumstances. By staying on this, I would like to make a reference to what Mr Velopoulos said about his initiative to inform the Prime Minister of these eight vehicles, which are confiscated to a customs office in the country - obviously - and the police took them to make use of them, which was like this Austrian I saw in Evros and really, it is an amazing tool for the police to do their job. However, I would like to stress that Mr Chrysochoidis has done similar efforts to allow those vehicles with which human suffering traffickers, i.e. human soul smugglers, but also drug traffickers, have attempted to make their crimes, have been arrested, confiscated or imprisoned. These cars, sitting 15 and twenty years, waiting for their owner, can now be seized immediately. When the good is released, the one who was once his master, if he wants, can claim them, which is usually never the case, so we see them rotting in the various police witnesses. So they can be exploited by our Security Body here and now. These are good practice and we welcome them. By staying on the issue of the coronary, the Greek state is moving properly and when I talk about the state, I talk about both the state and the society and when I talk about society, of course I am also talking about the opposition. We have a very good practice, which has prevented many unrelenting aspects of this scourge and compared to many countries. Today I'm making a special reference to France. Yesterday I spoke about the Italians and Spaniards, who did not have time to do so, but also about the French, who too were late to act, but who acted, reading the measures that President McCron made, I see how far the Greek state is and how much it has run. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must highlight problems which we, as political parties and MPs, are locating on the day after that it passes and brings us information, but also what each one of us sees, especially when it is inside the market. I also speak as a politician, but also with the experience of the free trader. There are too many problems that have arisen, they have appeared and we need to look at them in a very detailed way, ladies and gentlemen, to see whether the government now meets its obligations towards the people. We read that "ERGANI" has recorded thirty thousand redundancies and we all know that in many branches redundancies appear as a solution. Yeah, but the redundancies are about people, about families, about income that will be lost. So what billions we read in the newspapers and on the websites that the government will give - now, indeed, that we may be talking about, Mr Stagiras's reference to measures - we must look at them thoroughly, because we must not look at them, as the report says, '2 billion, 2.5 billion', but we must see how they are individualised, how they are evacuated, how they reach the citizen, who needs them, to the free professionals, to the businesses, to the agricultural sector and to the sacked. We are right to read about postponing the payment of taxes and contributions, and possibly debts on loans, but how are they specified? It is, I think, a top issue for Parliament and instead of some colleagues saying that we must close down, we must all stress the need to remain open, as a parliament, even in the way that we operate it, which also meets the needs of the country facing it. Can the House close? Why would the House close? Who's gonna sit down and see government policies in detail these days? Mr President, I was informed by Mr Kegeroglu that he is now discussing the Conference of Presidents with a view to postponing our current question on the economy on Friday. But is that possible? Now we need this parliamentary tool, to see how they are evacuated, specialised, the government's financial measures are personalised. We might be talking about some billions. When someone waited for the weekend to face the difficulties of their loans, but also of their family's lives, and now it's closed, we need to see what happens to this citizen. We can't just stay in the general proclamations. Also, Mr President, why does parliamentary control need to be checked? We read that the Minister of Education wants to transfer the examinations - for universities I mean - to September. That's a crime. The solution is at the moment - I am the optimists, in relation to dealing with this virus - if we do not go to the horror scenarios, to look at the subject of examinations involving millions of children and parents, based on a reduction in matter and examinations in July. September is the worst option, and I hope we can avoid it. Also, for hospitals, we say the National System can stand. He's got a good time for them, too. Mrs Gennamas has proposed the use of the private sector as well. That's right. In the private sector, however, we hear that intensive treatment facilities will be used. In fact, some donations are being made and I doubt that, on the basis of the information I have, if these units are already equipped to deal with the problem. I also hear that, where there is a need for help at home, in this case, for a patient, there are no appropriate groups to go - with the appropriate equipment I mean - so, the measure you announce and do not walk. Furthermore, Mrs Gennamas has just informed me that from information from Symi, on small islands where the provision of health services is too limited, what is happening? They tell her - from the Symi again - that there is - to say without overreacting - and despair, when people are bombarded with the news that we are all their social partners and on the other hand, they have no ways of dealing with the problems, as they know they are. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add this to the problems associated with private sector workers. The civil servant is covered and thankfully. What's the private sector employee doing? We see that there will be measures. What measures? As they specialize and concern them, they should have a corresponding form of protection. Take their place, in the position of those who are not made redundant - to take it with good reason - but that the businessman cannot pay their wages? What's gonna happen? Generally, the economy will inherit too many problems, which will appear in a very rough way when the virus is handled. The problem is being recorded at the moment, we control the government in the measures it takes and how they specialize, but the concern about the next day must be with all of us. I shall close this section, Mr President. As we praised yesterday, at least our party, the state's decision, the government's decision to manage the faithful of all known religions, we need to see some issues relating to Mount Athos. Yesterday's decision also covers this issue, but goes beyond responsibility to the Governor of Mount Athos and the Holy Community. There are problems, which are easy to solve, such as stopping visits, such as protecting sick monks or protecting the ultra-aged monks, but with regard to the day-to-day operation of Mount Athos, we expect, as a Change Movement movement, to be genuinely inconvenient to the decisions made by the Governor of Mount Athos, of course by informing the Holy Community, as yesterday's decision was published in the Official Journal of the Government, how it will be specified in practice. Mr President, with your tolerance, I will say a few thoughts on the draft law. First of all, Madam President, it is a very technical text. I do not want to speak in an unbelievable way and where my technical difficulties create a difficulty to articulate a political speech, I always respect technical difficulties and abstain from expressing thoughts clipping because I have been told that I have to. I invoke Mr Dimitris Biagis, our rapporteur at the Standing Committee and Mr George Arvanitides - both of his colleagues have been very specific, an article in an article in the draft law commented and said our opinion - and Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou's position today. However, I make a choice in two articles. The speech by Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Santorini from the Syriza. I want to stay in Article 64 and Article 15, Minister. I agree with private investment in ports. Indeed, by addressing my colleague, SYRIZA, with whom we have the opportunity to exchange views, I would like to remind him of their own practice. And I want to remind him of their practice, not when he was a Deputy Minister, but from the outset, when he was Deputy Minister, Mr Dritsa, when we had the issues of 'COSCO' here and the battles we had in this House, in order to move forward with the investment and how, with the withdrawal of excessive positions that had previously recognised the need to exploit our ports. We are in favour of using the ports. I am indeed a socialist of the relevant matter in terms of our country and economy if our ports are exploited. But what do you need from the Port Planning and Development Committee under Article 64 to be so party? Why, what do you gain? Minister, I address you. What do you need from such a party committee? You have two people, who express the social area, two members, all the others are general secretaries. What do you want with that? Why does it make it easier for you in your work to be such a composition of this planning committee? What problems are you going to overcome in this government-party way? I really don't understand it, and here's the space you need to explain. Are there any investment difficulties that a government-party option will overcome? Is that the target? Is this the ratio legis in this regard or any other thought that we cannot understand? Secondly, as far as staff are concerned, my colleague from SYRIZA, the rapporteur for Officerial Representation, Mr Santorinios, has submitted to Parliament the opinion of POSY, namely the trade-union police officers. There we read, as we have already seen, about how positive the measure of increasing organic positions is by a thousand hundred, but also pensions and grading aspects, and there remains more people in his work, this favours his pension rights, and it is also a good measure in our view. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] On the other hand, why are the responsibilities of the port and coastguard to the coasts extended? Why, what's that? Won't we have confusion of responsibilities, as Mr. Kegeroglu said with the police? I guess not, it's subtracting responsibilities. Why is that so? If it is necessary to deal with immigration and the more general political issues raised by this migration, why is it not that type of arrangements for specific areas in Greece and the regulation being generalised? The cops themselves are telling you no. The confusion will be specific. This last year's regulation was right. Why are you making this change? It is an issue on which, Minister, we want your clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is our duty today to thank, in addition to you and the officials of the House who are here and without them, the National Representation could not work. Therefore, a great thank you to everyone and you are all here today, but also to all those who are outside this Chamber, because we are in a special health, social, economic and parliamentary treaty. I think we need to take the opportunity to say a great deal of thanks to everyone and all those who give every day - in adverse conditions - the battle to keep society up and overcome this new crisis, this unprecedented situation. Our thoughts are above all to people who give their battle for life to intensive care units, to their families, but also to doctors, nursing staff, to the managers of hospitals, who also daily give an unequal fight against the coronary. I think it has now become understandable to all, even to those who detest, who were being sarcastic, slashing, fighting the national health system, that? without strong public hospitals? society is exposed and unprotected to unforeseen risks. This shift is welcome, as long as it is not temporary, as long as it is not on track, but all this will appear. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, there is a debate that needs to be held, even now in a situation of crisis, a debate on the social state, a debate on the supposed self-regulation of the market, which I learn is gradually being rejected as an idea and a guiding principle of policies, and even by ministers of the New Democracy, who some time ago defended it with all their powers in the field of ideas. There must be a debate on common goods, there must be a debate on fiscal policy, on the architecture of the euro area and the European Union, on its direction, on the Stability Pact, which seems to be a bankrupt form of regulation of terms and limits on economic and fiscal policy. Unfortunately, although these limits are recognised at the level of declarations and these conditions, but also the deadlocks at the level of real policy, we are, of course, completely behind the needs of both Europe and Greece. It seems that the Eurogroup can imagine a post-disclosure reality, marginally, even the end of the world, cannot imagine the end of the Stability Pact and it is precisely why the decisions of the other day were not just inadequate to deal with the situation, but they were almost out of place and time. In any case, let us stick to our own, let us stick to what concerns mainly our country. From our side, at this stage, we have said too many times in the clearest way and through our President Alexis Tsipras, that we are not going to follow a line of barren confrontation, a line of ruthless crys or the exploitation of political speculation, in a really extremely difficult situation. Ideological and political differences remain, but now the crucial thing is to be able to overcome this crisis with the least possible problems and, as far as possible, to limit its consequences. So, let us not hide the government today, but it is necessary for us to be able to overcome this crisis as a society. There is no excuse, Minister, precisely because this political consensus is in place in support of the difficult decisions to be taken. I am, however, obliged to express my concern because it seems that in a number of fields things are not going well. Already, the limited checks carried out on the coronary, due to a lack of reagents, create reasonable questions for the government to prepare for this crisis, which we knew would hit the door of Greece. It was a given - objectively - that it was absolutely logical to happen. I'm afraid, you know, the limited tests lead to limited case announcements and are likely to create a superficial image of pandemic retreat. There is a possibility that this will lead to a relaxation of protection measures taken by citizens. It is therefore extremely crucial to address this situation as soon as possible. I was told that Maximus - with a leak - was celebrating a reduction in cases. They want to pay great attention to this type of leakage, because I say again that it is possible to lead to a relaxation of protection measures, which we all need to take. Also, at the same time, due to this situation, the lack of reagents, we are leading to a strategy of response, which is more reminiscent of the Italian strategy. If experts suggest lowering the coronary tests, that's a matter. It's about the experts, and we have to listen to them. But if it is necessary to dilute, because of the lack of reagents, this is extremely problematic and you have to deal with it, because it is another thing to choose a strategy after the experts' suggestions, and another thing to go into a strategy to tackle it, because you do not have the logistics infrastructure to follow another, possibly a better strategy. I don't want to be smart. The experts will tell us what the right thing is. In any case, however, we should not divest strategies because of a lack of infrastructure. You know, Minister, that there was a corresponding flaw in the matter of the church. I won't expand. I just hope this frustration doesn't cost. Mr Mitsotakis was right to take the step towards rationalising the measures. I only hope that this ten-day, fifteen-day delay does not cost. That's all I'm pointing out right now. I think that the debate has taken place and will, in any case, continue to take place in the public sphere and in society. I shall also refer to the scope of the economy, so as to close. Given that shop restrictions have been launched for almost a week and every day we have an extension of the restrictions, I believe that the government's moves in relation to financial support have come rather late. It has been a week since the first companies started closing and measures of financial support are being announced for the first time today. I think that one week in conditions of this kind of rapid spread of critical phenomena is too long, and already on the labour market - previous colleagues have pointed out them, like Mr Loverdos from the Change Movement - the situation for workers and small and medium-sized enterprises seems to be evolving into dramatic ones. There have been too many complaints about situations, which remain unregulated and the Ministry of Labour seems to be simply watching. I will give you some examples, Minister. What about permit offsetting? We hear complaints from workers because, in companies that have ordered the state to close, employers have voted out for the forced non-working of workers with the normal permits that workers have to take when they choose. What about these setbacks? Will there be legislation on the part of the Ministry of Labour to ban them? What about the redundancies? I am aware that at the press conference, which was given today by the three ministers, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Staikoras and Mr Brutsis, there was a different answer in relation to redundancies. On the one hand, the Ministry of Labour has said that redundancies are prohibited in businesses, which are closed after the government's mandate. Mr Stavros and Mr Georgiades said something different, that special emergency aid will not be granted by the companies that close by the government's mandate and proceed with redundancies. These are two completely different things. The specialities of the measures must be cleared up on the part of the government. We cannot proceed in this way with three ministers giving a press conference on specialization and the communication of measures and say more and more. Our opinion is: a full and absolute ban on redundancies and a direct arrangement by the Ministry of Labour to undertakings, which, on the government's mandate, are closing down. There are many more complaints. For example, there is this problem in the deliberation area. These people, who give daily battle, so that everyone else can stay at home and protect ourselves, but above all the vulnerable groups, denounce that employers do not give them the necessary protection measures and instead tell them: If you want to take protective measures, that is, special protective gloves, masks, etc., you have to do so on your own responsibility and your own costs. What does the government do in this regard? I think that a direct order should also be given in this area. There are many other things that have been mentioned and made known over the past few days, and we will continue to point them out, because it is extremely critical, in order to make this possible, the smoothest possible development in the labour market, within a very difficult treaty. Especially with regard to economic measures, which have a financial impact, it is assumed that the EUR 400, which is given to workers whose businesses are working, have been closed down on the government's mandate, is not enough. That's for granted. We have tabled proposals, clear and clear, but also realistic what needs to be done. I'm trying to sum them up. First of all, claiming a direct reduction in surpluses to 2%. I think this is a golden opportunity at the moment to create the conditions for reducing surpluses to 2%. It is something that is not only realistic, but it is also perfectly reasonable, given the consequences of an economic crisis which is coming. We are also talking about a generous package of measures of about 5 billion from the budget. Because I heard Mr Stakoura this morning - I expect to see in detail what he said in his earlier announcements - talking about 3.8 billion. But be careful. The 3.8 billion is 2 billion, which is directly allocated to the budget and speaks of 1.8 billion to be announced in the next few days and is linked to European programmes. Watch out: here's the thing. The sum of EUR 1.8 billion in European programmes is not liquidity, which is currently going to apply. Until this money is disbursed, until the necessary procedures are done in the European Union, it will have spent valuable time. It is therefore the government's responsibility to proceed to immediate measures much higher than 2 billion, both directly and in the budget. There is this possibility, Minister. How should these measures be drawn up and specified? We have talked about covering the total wage costs, about all the workers whose businesses they work have been shut down, on the government's mandate. We are talking about a heading which, on the basis of new communications on business closures for the next month, is estimated at between 700 and 800 million. That's a size class. There is therefore a possibility of doing so. Of course, we are talking about extending the protection of first residence. We're talking about four thousand direct recruitments to the National Health System. It's not enough to hire two thousand nursing staff. On the other hand, we need to make permanent recruitments of doctors and nurses to the National Health System. We are also talking about an exceptional allowance to all free professionals whose businesses have closed down - there is a possibility of doing so - as is an exceptional allowance for low incomes to cover exceptional needs arising from the crisis. Also, suspension of payments of all tax and insurance obligations as long as companies are closed up, because it is the State's obligation when it asks citizens to take self-restraint measures and measures concerning their individual liability towards themselves, but also for vulnerable groups, to provide objective conditions, so that these measures can be met. It is therefore your direct obligation as a government to create these objective conditions, so that we can as a society collectively and with solidarity to deal with this exceptional situation. Minister, the Greek economy is in a fragile state. We've come out of a ten-year crisis. Of course, for a year and a half, since August 2018, there has been a clear economic recovery, there is a security pillow of 37 billion euros, which enables the Greek economy to withstand the shocks and dramas, which are objective that will come from this whole story. But just because we are just a year and a half after leaving a Memorandum Treaty and the situation is still extremely fragile - you have seen what is happening with the Greek economy's borrowing rates over the last two days - we need to act now, we need to act immediately and aggressively. I sincerely hope that the government understands the criticalness of the situation, does not plunge into its logic of "seeing and doing" and creates these conditions so that the Greek society, the Greek economy and the citizens can cope with this enormous challenge, which I think will play a decisive role in the very development of our social history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The new Lebanese Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor now. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer to the two asymmetric threats, the coronary and Turkish aggression, first of all in my speech today. First of all, I too would like to thank the medical and nursing staff, the workers at the EMCDDA, the intensive laboratories, the EGE, all those on the front line of battle against the virus with personal danger, doing their duty and protecting all of us. We must, however, also thank our soldiers, who, in the midst of a pandemic, guard our borders, by sending a strong signal of deterrence to the outside, the Greek Police that ensures that order is observed within this very difficult period, the employees of the stores, who remain open, to the supermarkets, to ovens, who work hard to get all of us access to the necessary goods for our lives. Of course, a great thank you to the officials in this House who, with disapproval, continue to offer their services so that the temple of democracy does not close. We have again heard the goodwill - I believe - of the Communist Party to close Parliament, invoking the exceptional situation. I understand the anxiety of the colleagues from the JRC and Mera25. But, ladies and gentlemen, the House cannot and must not be closed. The symbol of democracy does not suspend its operation. The State shall not suspend its operation. The symbol of modern Greek democracy will remain open and will also fight this invisible enemy of undisturbed war. In this spirit I also welcome the decisions of all the sacred ones, who were aware of the criticality of the situation, and have proposed measures to deal with the virus. However, I also feel proud of the decision of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a serious and progressive governor, who takes all the necessary steps, showing the right way, of a leader who comes forward and tells the truth, who assumes the political responsibility, which throws a net of protection to the citizens, which safely surrounds the people, experiencing his leadership as part of the people themselves, highlighting the principle of individual behaviour that gives content to collective consciousness. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, Maximos did not celebrate or celebrate. He moves with a sense of responsibility and tries to do his job as well as he can, as effectively as he can. So we feel strong and confident that we will all win this war together, because both the ever-populated Greek state and our oppressed Greek fellow citizens prove their unscrupulous abilities - when they want it - and their honesty. Public administration is responding with unique efficiency and speed to the coronary crisis that we are facing. The implementation of the measures is immediate and universal. The State stands to the level of circumstances, taking all necessary measures to protect citizens. The primary pillar in this effort is the National Health System, a system which is afflicted by the Memorandum of Financial Adjustment, but which stands upright and manages this unprecedented crisis. The message now is clear to everyone: the public health system is based, it must be supported and supported. This crisis shows, once again, the obvious fact that the public health system is the best guarantee of this supreme social good, that of health. The private initiative must and must exist, but it must be a crucial complement, a complementary pillar in a strong public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronary will inevitably affect our economy, it already affects it. The government, however, is ready to deal with whatever issues arise. Eurogroup's recent decisions strengthened the power of fire. Obviously, the issue of the Stability Pact put forward, but also of the wider economic policy of the European Union, should be discussed again, but not now. Now we're in battle. They will be discussed, when Greece will also have a leading role there. However, for this year there is no 3.5% target for the surplus. The costs of strengthening the health system, the care for workers and businesses who have been forced to suspend operation, the facility for citizens affected will not be taken into account in our planned economic objectives. We have the necessary liquidity to deal with this crisis. As the Prime Minister said in his speech yesterday, 2 billion euros will be allocated to support the affected businesses. Gradually - obviously - other measures will be considered. At present, however, tax and insurance obligations are suspended, while the State will pay the wages and employees to the close-up companies. Payments in respect of loans shall be postponed until June 2020 for enterprises. It is obvious that we must at some point also see private loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u115	For the free professionals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u116	And that inside, as you said before. At the same time, even more controls will be carried out to combat those who are trying to speculate against the citizens, taking advantage of their anxiety. Those who try to exploit this situation are punished and will be punished exemplarily. However, we also need restraint on the part of the citizens. There is no need to empty the supermarket shelves from antiseptics or food. We don't have to deprive our fellow citizens of goods that they probably need more and more. We only buy what we need. We must show this solidarity in all times of the difficult life that we have before us. The sense of humanity and national conscience that we have within us will prevail. The necessary isolation that we all respectfully have to observe by staying in our house will not turn into alienation. It will open up new ways of communication, coexistence and cooperation. We're all tested together and tested. But we'll endure and stand up again. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for the 'we' to be strengthened against'me'. In this context, I would like to congratulate, today, from this step, the Opposition, the whole Opposition. With responsible attitudes, wisdom and responsibility, it contributes productively to tackling this emergency. Our homeland must be united, since only so will it pass through the contributors. In this way - state, political system and civil servants - we will win this asymmetric war. But we're going to win one more thing. We will win a Greek people who act collectively and who rejects individualism, who proves his national self-confidence, who trusts our institutions and democracy again, a Greek people who eventually discovers his new national identity. I am closing down with a brief reference to this important bill, which, of course, came under these circumstances by the Ministry of Shipping, a bill which, as we have said, solves years of problems, increases always like the Port House, hits bureaucracy and facilitates entrepreneurship. The draft law has been sufficiently analysed by Mrs Anna Karamanlis before, and that is why the Minister will also speak immediately afterwards. The bill therefore faces and solves practical problems, which help to tackle the two asymmetric threats, which, as we have said, are facing our country and therefore, since our country is facing them, Europe is also dealing with them, and I am addressing Mr Velopoulos - and this is what we believe in and we are improving with our policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues involved in drawing up a support plan for the Ministry of Shipping, the same shipping, the under-represented Ministry, as has been said before, in the modern draft establishment plan of the Ministry, the workers' rights and their strengthening, all of this will be dealt with by a new legislative initiative of the Ministry's political leadership in time from what it considers appropriate. In this context, thoughts and proposals from the Opposition and the experience of all those responsible for this ministry are always useful. Obviously, we have our political differences. And that's acceptable. The government sets its priorities and judged them daily by the Greek people. And so is the Opposition. The verbal excesses and the populist approach, especially nowadays, are out of place and time. Police's choice of safe guarding places is evidently aimed at better security, security for citizens and the creation of the best conditions of responsibility and effective operation of both the Port Corps itself and, of course, our Police. So we take political responsibility and strengthen defence everywhere. On the issue of Kess, it is clear that the government is not being reassured. Obviously, all of us think of both the inhabitants and the municipality themselves, the structure of the municipality of our beautiful island. We have improved guarding - and this has been heard many times today in the Chamber - on both our land and our maritime borders. We control the Aegean better than ever. We watched the old ship that landed on Gias' rocks. Immigrants upstairs are obviously illegal. They are currently kept in quarantine for 14 days. The Ministry of Shipping from the first moment took action to tow the ship, to avoid the consequences of contamination. The police, however, were immediately strengthened on the island and took care of them. The island was strengthened medically and nursingly for the control and management of detained immigrants. The state is running, vigilantly and will face all the challenges it will face. Finally, the Parliamentary amendments were not accepted by the Minister. The ministerialmen, who were presented to the committee, one of whom is an emergency because of a coronary, were posted and submitted, even late as a result of the slower operation of the services, with a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Their object doesn't hide anything strange. You read them and judge them. We are all under pressure to deal together with the problems arising from the war of the virus, the work of immigration and the aggression of the Turkish President. We'll all make it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I shall now give the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u118	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u119	As long as it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u120	As long as it goes. I think about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u121	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in Parliament on the draft law 'Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions' takes place under unprecedented conditions both globally and locally. Worldwide, the coronary epidemic has led to the need for measures that could never be understood to be implemented in peaceful and democratic times, but measures which are absolutely necessary in order to limit its spread and, of course, to protect public health and measures - you will allow me to say this once again from the Step of this House - which we must all respect with absolute commitment and consistency. It is true that this government has taken the concrete measures in good time and much before other European countries. At the same time, the Prime Minister himself made concrete speeches so that the concrete measures would be implemented quite clearly. We care about human life. This is - if you want - the personal bet of all of us. And, of course, in this struggle, everyone needs to participate and agree. But most importantly, individual responsibility is needed. The Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy has been set up and operates on a daily basis a working group, which examines and recommends specific actions and targeted policies for all areas of responsibility of the Ministry for the organisation and operation of the Ministry's services. We are also in constant cooperation with the representatives of the shipping and shipping sector to take measures to protect workers from seafarers, as well as with the undertakings which are literally affected by the declining of the transport project. We are working on a specific plan of financial support and relocation for the affected island regions, as well as for businesses. Specific measures have also been taken. For example, all passenger transport between Greece and Italy was stopped. Goods shall be transported only. It was prohibited to tie cruise ships, boats, private and professional pleasure boats to Greek ports. And because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said a moment ago that we were delaying the matter of the Church, I have to say that we first exhausted every room for dialogue with the Church and then proceeded to take action. And I think you all realise that this was the right way. However, the conditions are also unprecedented, ladies and gentlemen, in our own country, since at the land and sea borders we face an organized plan from Turkey, an asymmetrical threat. At this point I would like to congratulate all the members of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, and, of course, the representatives of the Port Corps who are doing a huge national job, protecting our country's maritime borders. And I would like to stress that we all have a duty to strengthen the operational capabilities of this House and their material reward. I consider it very important that the proposed draft law deals exactly with the Port House and its executives in this way. In this critical period we are doing what should have been done for years. What do we do? We are increasing the organic power of this House by a thousand five hundred positions, of which nine hundred have to be allocated to the Aegean islands. You realise how much this regulation strengthens the operational capacity to guard our country's maritime borders, which, together with the addition of new vessels - some fifty-four by 2023 - will give the women and men of the port more easily to complete their mission. We do not, however, think that this is enough. The people who boldly, decisively but also sensitivity and respect for human life are attempting day-to-night, for 24 hours, often under very difficult conditions, to provide maximum support. That is why we are giving solutions to issues that have been afflicted for years by the representatives of the Port Authority. We regulate favorable issues that affect their everyday life and quality of life to a great extent with those relating to housing, transfer, care and co-service. As I have said, and as I have said in committee, it is a bill which actually restores normality in the operation of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. With the draft law we are called upon to deal with pathogens that we inherited from the previous governments, from the previous SYRIZA government, and at the same time implement our electoral commitments. At the same time, however, we are taking initiatives to strengthen the competitiveness of Greek domestic shipping and, at the same time, to ensure a sense of legal certainty. Let me briefly give you but targeted, the main aspects and arrangements of the proposed draft. The first part relates to the modernisation of the institutional framework for maritime cabotage and to the problems that have arisen in recent years on the coastline. An explicit prohibition shall be introduced to replace a conventional vessel with a high speed craft or a hydroplane during the period of operation. Speedboats and waterfreight ships are a distinctive category of ships and in view of the particularities they present. In addition, legislative gaps relating to these ships are covered and a specific procedure is laid down for the late launch of these vessels, in proportion to the procedure applicable to the contractual vessels. A regulation is also introduced whereby ships of an open type are required for 12 months on a given line to avoid uncontrolled movement of such ships on different lines during the period of operation. At the same time - and I think we all agree - we are finally in favour of adopting a regulation of principles and functioning of the Transport Council in order to lay down specific explicit rules for the uniform treatment of similar cases and, of course, to remove the misinterpretations of all the political leaderships of the Ministry. Finally, criminal sanctions are being abolished for the infringement of Law 2932/2001, which has so far not worked dissuasively for shipowners and a stricter system of administrative sanctions is being introduced. For example, there is an administrative fine of EUR 20 000, which is increased to EUR 40 000 in the event of a relapse to issue tickets before the announcement of the ship launch declaration. There is also a fine of EUR 50 000 for whoever received a route notification does not operate routes. And allow me at this point to say clearly my opinion. Healthy competition benefits society as a whole and in particular island regions. We regulate the field with clear rules as owed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Port Corps - the Greek Coast Guard at the moment we are discussing - guards the maritime borders of our country. Protects life at sea, protects the marine environment. As I said before, it is the state's duty to support these executives in practice. That is why we are implementing our commitment and legislating to increase the organic force of the Port Authority by adding the 1,500 positions. And we're not staying here. We expressly define by this provision that the 900 of them will be allocated to the Aegean islands, the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, the islands of the northern Aegean and Samothrace. In this way, the port authorities of the islands of Greece will be strengthened by over 60% of this increase. The message we give, ladies and gentlemen, is clear. The increase in the organic positions of the Port Authority is not only a message of support to this House. It is also a message to neighbouring Turkey that the Port House is being strengthened and will henceforth protect our country's maritime borders with even greater power in both means and personnel. And because you have rushed, Mr Santorinier, to tell us that we did not take the organic positions at 10,500, I ask you: All these years, why have you not increased the organic power of the Port Authority? You didn't even raise her in one place! There is also provision for a transitional system of recruitment in the Port House until the first series of pan-Hellenic examinations is graduated by tendering and moleculation. A direct ranking of masters and engineers from the AAR is foreseen to serve all increasing operational means. Of course, there is provision for the possibility of entering the College of executives of absolutely necessary expertise, such as legal, economic, doctors, both through the SAA and the private sector, who will be ready and experienced to offer the Port. The Port Corps is a military coordinated body and has procedures. The procedures, however, should be governed by a sense of law rather than coercive. A lot has been said about the transfers. Firstly, we heard the two federations and adopted their proposals. You promised to get a presidential decree in four months and we're still waiting for it. Regular transfers should be made on the basis of objective criteria. Only in exceptional cases and on a proposal from their senior body shall the service criteria be laid down. However, even in exceptional transfers for the low grades, the many, there are objective criteria. Now for strains coming from the Port Guard School and being of the highest level of education and prestige, an additional degree is introduced in their rating. The aim of the Ministry and of the Government is to improve the quality of life of the representatives of the Port Authority. We are not focusing solely on strengthening this House with modern operational instruments and staff. Next month we will begin to receive the new operational donation instruments of the Greek Shipowners Association. Our policy beyond technology has an anthropocentric character. There is a need for administrative care and we are struggling for it. The bill introduces the possibility of renting buildings on the islands for women and men of the Port House both through national and European funds. There are managers' co-service topics with teachers. It extends the battle for five years to officials who did a combat service and had not been recognized to date, while ending the allowance to the remote islands of Agiadians, Ottoons and Skyros, who had been unjustly forgotten until today. Of course, the issue, which he has rightly dealt with, is solved in terms of the medical care of our officials. On this government, the representatives of the Port Corps will finally supply their medicines from the contracted Pharmaceuticals of the EEA. And I would like publicly to thank the EEA administration for this help. Now we are going through the responsibilities of the saint and the beach. Mr Santorinier, in the time of Venizelos, there was neither the concept of aegialus nor the beach. These concepts entered for the first time in 1940. You tell us we're going back and we're applying the law of the junta. And I ask you: The Code of Public Maritime Law - which is a 'Greek' in the maritime sector - when was it legislated? In 1973. You've been applying the law of the junta for all these years?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u123	How many changes does it have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u124	You've been applying junta law all these years? Let's go down. Here in these chairs during the debate on the provisions of Law 4597/2019, we pointed out the improperness of extending all the policing powers of the sea and the beach to the Port House. Without any study and without any possibility of exercising them it was certain that serious problems would arise. Old dilemmas were returned for the boundaries of the sea and the beach. Have the boundaries of the beach really been described? Do you know that? And along with them, the confusion over the local limits of competence of the Port House and of the EPP, with what this implies for the safety of citizens, has also come back. But the most important of all was what? The disorientation of the Port Corps from their main mission to the sea. The enormous national effort that it is making these days - and here we are entitled - to safeguard our country's maritime borders and to safeguard our country's sovereign rights, particularly from the representatives of the Port Authority fully deserves our objections. So we're reinstated where? In the pre-eminent state. How many years do they apply? For the last fifty years. SYRIZA again came to stir things up without, of course, demanding that forces of the Port Corps be withdrawn from the guarding of our sea borders, research and rescue, protection of the marine environment and the fight against crime, in order to exercise the additional policing powers on a sanctuary and beach. We are now reintroducing competence in the Ship Control Division to carry out inspection checks and certification on ships. This recommends with two words of return to normality, but also in fact, because Greece was the only country - take note, Greece - the first world shipping power where the training and certification of inspectors of its flag ships was not provided for. Even if we wanted to dismantle this competence, neither international regulations nor Union law allow us. Look, Mr. Santorinier, the School of Inspectors at SYRIZA certified inspectors only for the port facility, did not certify inspectors for the control of ships, the carrying out of vertical checks as required. Digital transformation and the electronicisation of the industry's processes will also be the guarantee of objectivity and impartiality of the industry's services, and we will proceed to this next period. I also note that we have tabled legislative improvements for the Central Council of Architecture of the Aegean. Now, in terms of transport equivalent, the implementation figures, but also the view of industry representatives on its planning, in particular on fuel, does not allow us to perpetuate a mistake with a new mistake. We regulate the prolongation of the pilot card - and stress the "pilot" since it is a term of your own law - until the measure is assessed. Our aim is to become part of the wider context of the island policy which will in an integrated way introduce innovative and targeted financial instruments, extroversion and developmental. The voluntary logic of the previous years and the productively blind approach do not work. For sample drilling: It is not a question of hydrocarbon drilling, but of pre-projects carried out before each port project and is currently subject to unjustified bureaucracy. Our order solves this. To establish the port zone limits: because the legislative framework is strict and because there are still issues in some agencies, it is uncertain to say that I do not solve them because the deadline has passed. We should be able to resolve these issues. On the question of the deadlines for the legalisation of structures and port installations, we believe that this time limit is necessary and capable of resolving the problems, especially at this juncture. Now on the subject of the ESRB: the regulation on the reconstruction of the ESRB is critical and I understand it. However, it must be realised that it is not right to place such a heavy political burden on the officials. The development of ports is a central choice of the government and it was also formulated in an election process. The upgrading of ESAA at the level of general secretaries aligns the institution with the national policy of strengthening and developing the ports of the country. I repeat that the service is not specifically dismantled on technical issues. About the famous article 105: Why do we recommend his abolition? Because it has never been implemented in practice. Article 105 has unsuccessfully attempted by the previous SYRIZA government the fragmented legalisation of the port waste and cargo collection service only by the seven port services regulated by European Regulation 352/2017. The provisions of Article 105 are quite inconsistent with European legislation. With the abolition of Article 105, what will happen? There will be a direct and direct application of European Regulation 352/2017 for all port services falling within its scope. Now, the abolition of Article 105, I told you in committee, is in agreement with the Port Regulatory Authority, since its President has publicly expressed the view that its abolition is better than its retention. I would like to point out that, apart from the principle of the free movement of people, goods and services, which is the foundation of the European Union, there is also the fundamental stone of the principle of a free economy. In other words, the argument that a regulation of the European Union leads to monopolies is the least inappropriate. Before I come to the amendments, let me refer to the issues of maritime tourism, which SYRIZA handled by police-type arrangements: arrangements are introduced for the purposes of removing immediately bureaucratic procedures which create a negative climate for attracting visitors to our country by means of pleasure boats. In this context, the EKRD's anachronistic obligation to comply shall be abolished, including arrangements to facilitate departure and landing procedures by private pleasure boats and arrangements shall be introduced to streamline sanctions in cases of late declaration of an application for registration in the electronic register. We are going to go to the amendments because there has been a lot of talk before the debate in plenary. Firstly, we had agreed in committee that the amendments would be discussed in plenary. After all, we have discussed all the amendments to the committee and before the debate in the House was opened, they were presented to you. I am referring in the outlines: the abolition of the AAL which was my personal commitment. I didn't surprise anyone, you all knew that I was personally opposed to the creation of the Public Port Authority. I didn't surprise anyone. It does not mean that the responsibilities of the AAL are dismantling their public character, but within the framework of the new organization of the Ministry they will no longer be exercised by the relevant addresses of the Secretariat-General of Ports. The Secretariat-General of Ports is not a public body? The development of the ports of the country will go hand in hand without the technical obstacles you have invented. For retired seateachers, who were also a proposal from Mr Kegeroglou, they are based on the work carried out and the injustice caused by your own legislative repatriations is removed. They also give the possibility to seafarers who have graduated from the ESDP for further professional development. These seamen shall be given the opportunity to grow to the extent of the master or first-class engineer. Finally, we are setting up a task force at the Central Port Authority of Piraeus as an operational arm of the Port Authority. As for the second amendment, this amendment does indeed relate to the coronary. I am talking about unforeseen events that have arisen as a result of measures to deal with the coronary and the conditions relating to immigration, the possibility of extending the crisis to up to three months from one who is so far. The proposed draft law, ladies and gentlemen, is the starting point for a long course of actions and actions to be implemented in 2020: an electronic register, an investment in the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, a start in the process of developing the country's ten major regional ports, a sectoral bill such as that of maritime education and island policy. His vote changes badly, modernises the existing law of the coastline in order to meet the increased demands of passengers, upgrades controls, strengthens the level of safety of both ships and bathers, and I appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that by your positive vote we are today taking a positive step towards modernization for the benefit of Greek society. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that I do not accept any of the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, I would like to speak at least on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u127	Normally, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u128	Let me say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u129	Let me finish, Mr. Comrade. I have to say what I have to say and then you say your own. The debate is organised. As you know, there's no dentistry. That's for granted. However, despite the fact that you have all spent three times a year, not double, I will give you two minutes to put you on the amendments and any other colleagues you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u130	Madam President, I can have the floor to make a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u131	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u132	Referring in a positive way to Mr Santorinios as rapporteur for Officerial Representation, I told him 'Mr. Nectario'. It wasn't disrespectful, was it? To be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u133	Okay. Here, Mr Santorinier, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, the moment I was in the Step on my prototype, I did not have the amendments in my hands. Minister, I told you from the Step. You said you would do this, you will do that, you will do the other thing. If you don't see the text, what are you gonna vote for? You cannot ask for these arrangements when we do not have them. And here, Madam President, it is a matter of parliamentary order and good legalism. I am not going to be tempted to respond to what you have been charged, Minister, but Mr Varvitsiotis's law is not applicable to maritime tourism. Law 2932 is law since 2001, so do not say it was our legislation that you are amending. As far as the amendment to the Crisis Council is concerned, it is understandable that we are in crisis and that, at the moment, it is reasonable to make this extension. In the other amendment, however, you put five - six different regulations in one place and you are also in the dominant position, the abolition of the public port authority, namely the one with the powers of the public authority, which had essentially to be exercised by someone when the ports of PPA and PAT were privatised. So he cannot agree to us and we cannot vote on anything other than this amendment. We agree with Article 1 in relation to maritime teachers. We've asked for it too. However, there is a need for particular discussion on the access of PES graduates, seafarers, maritime education and the AEN. And since you're saying you're going to bring a bill about it, why don't you expect us to have a debate on this bill, and you're bringing it up with a last-minute amendment? Because this request has been submitted mainly by private PCAs. And everyone we are in Piraeus and know from Piraeus and who we know from who these requests have been made. Bringing them at the last minute is at least unwise. Please withdraw it and discuss it in substance when you bring the Naval Education Act. And I'm closing, Madam President. Bring in a thousand five hundred organic positions. The organic positions were abolished on Mr Varvitsiotis and it was a Memorandum of Understanding. The country from the memorials, SYRIZA pulled it out, and we told you there had to be a study. You do not have a study of exactly how much the positions the Port House needs. No study you have. You say, "How much should I put? I'll put a thousand five hundred." That's your logic. This is how you legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kegeroglu, you asked for the floor. You only have him for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, I ask for it because, as has been said, amendments have been tabled since our speech from the Stephen of the House, and so it is not reasonable not to take the floor. That was the deal made this morning. If the Bureau fails...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u137	You will allow me to say something, Mr President. The deal was this morning, but you spoke from what I see here 20 minutes while you had to speak eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u138	Madam President, I would again like to say that the amendments were tabled 10.45' and 10.55', so after our speech. If you want to be king of the king, tell us. This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u139	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. I'm neither rude nor anything. What I am saying is something and you know it very well, because you are taking part in the Conference of Presidents. The deal was for eight minutes. You spoke 20. You are right, and that is why I give you the floor. However, I would say that you do not get far and be consistent in time like the previous colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u140	I'll be consistent. The Conference of Presidents has decided another thing, and it will also be two speakers. The rapporteurs will then be informed that they will not be the other two speakers and will have normal time. And normal time is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Colleague, please get on with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u142	Don't be king-in-law of the king.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u143	I am not king's king.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u144	How was I supposed to say that? Mitsotakis' motto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u145	All right, fine now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u146	To say in two minutes about the amendments that have been tabled. Urgent is right. I mean the amendment on the possibility of a time-lag, which was not done in the Armed Forces, and in the midst of attacks by the Turks with a gun from immigrants to Evros there were crises in the Armed Forces. I consider the amendment to be very correct because it is truly contradictory when some officers give the battle for border protection to exist and behead them. Not that it's right, the ones who deserve to be decapitated after. But I say it cannot be done at the same time. The second amendment has very serious issues. It is impossible to study and place ourselves in it without wrongdoing. It contains two - three provisions which are in the right direction, such as the provision - although it does not solve the issue in the biennial - with teachers in the Commercial Navy Schools. Although it doesn't solve the issue, it's in the right direction. It has other paragraphs in the other articles that have necessary provisions. However, it is not possible for the amendment to be considered and put right. That is why our position in this amendment will be 'the present'. To close, in the few seconds I have, I would like to say that there is a need to strengthen the system that has to do with protecting our maritime borders in every way. Of course, we should also look at the issue, Mr Minister, of transport from the islands to Turkey. All transport with Italy, with other countries, etc. cannot have been cut. And with Turkey staying open. I do not know in practice whether it works, but it is a matter that you need to see at once. Of course, there is also the issue that Mr Loverdos raised about the islands, which are really at this time alone in dealing with the accumulated problems of the triple crisis experienced by our country: the crisis that has to do with the coronary, the crisis that has to do with Greek-Turkish relations and Turkish aggression, and of course, the economic and social crisis which is causing both these problems. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u147	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Is there any other of the rapporteurs who would like to take a second time? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy is adjourned: 'Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighty articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. You should make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u148	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u149	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u150	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles in principle and in a whole and as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its responsible ratification of the Minutes to the vote on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u152	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-18-S1-commons.u153	With the agreement of the House at 14.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 19 March 2020 at 9: 30, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions (I.S.).(')'.
