ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Parliament's 2-12-20 authorization, the minutes of its meeting of Wednesday 2 December 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Summary of the smuggling - Closure of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke, provisions on public property and commentary heritage, provisions on traffic charges and classification fees, incentives to attract tax residents and other provisions’.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 26 November 2020 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings, in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs and special speakers, as well as the parliamentary representatives, the twelve speakers in the first cycle, as well as the ministers, who will be involved in a natural presence, that three further circles of speakers be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the 'WEBEX' platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Mr President, we are going to make a comment, which is obviously only for the Minutes, that the absence of the Minister gives us particular impression. The fact that we are starting again without the Minister, who was not and did not take the floor at the last three meetings. We know it's the State Secretary here. But the Minister's not here and we're waiting for him. So the Minister comes in, because I want him to hear what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u6	Don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u7	I'm not in a hurry. We're informed to hear what I'm going to tell him. Mr President, on a point of order I would like to inform you of this. At the first meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, following our question, the Minister admitted that they are planning to submit an amendment of major importance to all aspects of renewable energy sources and the deficit in the special account. The Bureau of the committee has therefore also called in bodies on this subject. We thank the Bureau here publicly for this move. A paradoxical parliament, but bodies came without the bill or articles. My intervention today, Mr President, is because we still do not have these articles. So the first question we ask is when the government intends to give us these amendments, which have been announced for five days last Friday. It's not something that he heard yesterday. You understand that on such an important issue that has been announced, bodies have come - not to have a legislative text or a background on which the debate will take place, it removes from the parliamentary debate a very important part, which I believe we all accept. The second thing I would like to say to you is that last afternoon the Deputy Minister in the committee to which we were meeting announced additional amendments, which are also very important. I say, for example, to amend the Athens Regulatory Plan. I am talking about issues relating to both Europe's cultural capital and degreasing zones. I am talking about issues which have to do with the construction services as a whole. Minister, you weren't yesterday, but I think it's worth an answer from you. The first question is completely practical and collegial, I would say. When will we have the amendments to have the debate? When will we finally know what is the government's will? And on the political side, allow me a placement and I close with it. Minister, I think that you are insulting the parliamentary procedure once again and that goes too far! And I tell you so, the way our society speaks. Once again we have come to plenary. We are waiting for amendments. You'll bring them in for the last minute. What Mr. Economou announced changes the Regulatory Plan of Athens and you have not yet given it. In fact, you announced that, without anyone knowing it, there would be no consultation, no information to society. I think this is unacceptable, and this story cannot continue. If you want to meet alone in your office, go over there and make vultures, decisions. We are not in this period, Mr Hatzidakis. Here we have Parliament and we respect it. If you also respect it at some point, let us know, because we too want to contribute to a parliamentary dialogue, with all the rules of democracy. Unless you don't think this should be the conversation. You can understand that at times we come out of certain limits, because what you do is not even parliamentary. So, Mr President, we are asking this: we have very important issues, so society suffers from another issue, and the Ministry from the back door creates serious problems with the legalisation, but neither is the amendments, Mr Hatzidakis? Or the amendments? When, then, will you commit to completing this much-needed process, so that we can see your plans, too? Because you're secretly making all these plans. It's clear. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u8	Mr Famelle, on the first point, it is irrelevant now, since the Minister has also come. However, whatever the case, the State Secretary has all the powers in this Parliament, except to legislate. So you're not right about that. The matter was raised another time, and I've answered it. As far as the second amendment is concerned, there is only one ministerial amendment, as I see it, and the Minister has announced it to the committee. The debate is two days, and it will be possible to develop it here and all the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs will take the floor. After all, do not bring this up, because in the previous House, which you were also a government, that was the case. Of course, this does not mean that the issues must be cleared up. There was, however, a practice, tolerable by the parliamentary procedure, that the amendments should be made by ministers, that the Minister should come to Parliament, that all of you should be able to answer them. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I had no idea that my presence was so valuable to Mr Famello. I'll try, as long as I can, not to take it away from him. From there on, on the issues he has raised, I would like to say that the energy amendment will be tabled within a moment. The Special Report of the Accounting Office remains to be signed. In a very short time, she will also be submitted. On the substance, it is also well known that part of it, which was not, was presented yesterday by Mr Economou, for deprivation. The rest we have announced in detail since November 13th. When you see it, you will find that there is nothing new. That is exactly what we said. In this spirit, too, this debate was also held in the committee, precisely about the content of the amendment. Secondly, the other amendment, to which you referred, Mr President, was tabled yesterday. It is the amendment, which deals with environmental and spatial issues. She had been described since yesterday before she was tabled, Mr. Economou, and that's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u12	Excuse me, but Mr. Famelos spoke. He'll speak one of each party. Procedural matters are the same. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, we have just been given a supplement to fourteen articles. These are important issues. They shall be added to the following chapters in Chapter IB in the other provisions. You're catching us epic. You have not even informed us and these are important issues which need to be discussed and cooperation to be done and to know what we are voting on. It's unacceptable! You added a mini bill right now, at 10.15 ́ - it's unacceptable! - as well as the amendments, which you have not hung up even. So, what are we going to do through this parliamentary procedure, which you have completely degenerated? Empty, empty shirt, you're asking us to vote and talk about things we haven't even been able to read yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u14	Is there any of the parliamentary representatives or the special speakers who would like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u16	One of every party, my colleague. Don't do it like that now. Please. Please. Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u17	I would remind you, for those who were not in the Senate yesterday, that yesterday I informed of this amendment tabled. I have referred in general to the fact that there is the amendment and its basic features. From there on, any particular article can be discussed today if there is any objection or problem. However, the fact that no information has been made is not accurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u18	Now, I would like to make a more general comment. Please only those Members who speak from Stepma speak the mask. The Members who speak from their seats, but also the ministers, please wear the mask. Mr. Stamenitis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u20	Apparently the objections and objections...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u21	Mr. President, when...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u22	I imagine that tomorrow we will develop this amendment so that you can have the time to study it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u23	Are you serious? Is that a legacy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u24	It has been said that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I request the floor. Is there no possibility as parliamentarians to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u27	You will be given the floor and you will be told. There'll be comfort. You won't be confined to fifteen minutes. It'll be more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I only ask you to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u29	You obviously didn't hear Mr. Famelos speaking. Is that right? You obviously didn't hear it or you weren't in the Chamber. In any case, all these objections and objections are what I said in my report on the articles in the committee's discussion that, obviously, the bill is a very good bill and we are looking to find details and formal issues to be heard. Well, we are entering the debate of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy entitled 'Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation'. It is, as we have shown through the analysis of the provisions in committee, a legislative initiative, which is an overall property reform, development and the environment. It is a fact that our country does not have an integrated spatial and urban planning, which has led us to a demonstrable institutional framework with many problems, gaps and ambiguities. The result of this is the multiple negative economic, development and social consequences, but above all environmental consequences. The current problematic situation attempts to overthrow the draft law under discussion, setting three main targets. It is the first to protect the environment by limiting the outside construction plan and the parallel implementation of an extensive Local Urban Planning Program. Secondly, strengthening and supporting the national effort to reconstruct the country through growth and investment. It also achieves this by legislating measures such as modernising the land use regime and encouraging the development of business activity in organised business parks. Third aim is to protect the right of property through a number of interventions, such as the transfer of the building factor, rationalisation of the modalities and the acceleration of urban plans. But how is the change in the field of spatial planning and town planning achieved? What are the arrangements of this bill and how do they change the landscape? How do we overcome the obstacles? How are administrative procedures achieved? How is the public space organized and how does it enter into construction? How is the environment protected? How do we give green color to the buildings and how are they made more functional, but also more friendly to our fellow citizens with motor difficulties? Let us see the answers to these questions through the presentation of the provisions of the bill and its interventions. First intervention: Acceleration of spatial planning across the country through the limitation of the time of completion of urban studies in two and a half years - today we are talking about 2012, 2013, 2015 - and the start of the most major programme of urban studies ever carried out in Greece. Today Greece is covered by local town planning plans, only 20% of its territory. With the adoption of the bill, five hundred local town planning projects will be drawn up, with the priority of the island country. By 2023, they will have been approved in three hundred administrative units, thus covering the tourist areas, i.e. 32% of the country, while the rest of the country will be covered by 2028. To this end, as well as in order to speed up, more effective implementation of the programme, a special coordinator is foreseen. At the same time, there is the possibility of assisting the monitoring and evaluation committees for spatial studies by certified experts, because there is the weakness of these committees, obviously because of their subsistence, to complete their work and we have delays - which I mentioned earlier - twelve to fifteen years. Here too, you will allow me to comment. SYRIZA reacts in an almost anachronistic way and perhaps even meaninglessly, as it looks at the last "private" reaction. He could have allergies. I say this because reacting to a regulation - a provision introduced to unblock the procedures and reduce the time spent on projects, which, at the moment, the public administration and staff, which they have, unfortunately, cannot support - cannot be misunderstood not because of a failure, but because of time and due to a sufficient number of staff - I think it is just a reaction to the reaction. Continuing to say the very important thing. The Local Urban Planning Program will be financed by the Recovery Fund of 80% and 20% by the European Investment Bank. And I say that it is very important, because we need to know that one of the most basic reasons why urban projects do not go ahead in Greece is the lack of funding. The current government has the will to go ahead with this great project, but it has also found funding for its implementation. Second change? Restriction of anarchy outside the construction project. Articles 31 to 40 contain arrangements which face one of the biggest problems in the country, which has a direct impact on the environment, investment and healthy competition. The unregulated out-of-plan construction would say it is a Greek phenomenon. We don't see it elsewhere in Europe. And it is finally settled and limited, and this is a commitment of the New Democracy and the Government. And how is this change achieved, this restriction? By reducing by 10% the rates of outside building and changing the status of excellence derogations, but with a sufficient transitional period to issue building permits for those owners who want to do so. It is worth noting at this point - the Minister has said so in his positions - that we are moving on to this change without surprise. There is a two-year limit for building permits for those who want, not counting the approvals of a forest and archaeological service, and four more years for building permits to be implemented. Therefore, we have been discussing in total for six years. Of course the owners, who will not proceed with a building permit, retain the right to build, but on the basis of what will determine the local and specific town plans which will be drawn up very quickly, as I said. It does not change anything about the off-project construction of four acres or more, of course, always until local urban projects are drawn up. In addition, organised business activity is being strengthened. The building factor is increasing in business parks, while the possibility of developing strategic investments in old industrial areas without urbanisation is being provided. In this way, the leadership of the Ministry attempts to reverse the time-consuming trend of strengthening the unregulated structure and to stimulate organised entrepreneurship, in order to protect the Greek nature from uncontrolled placement of business. In order to say that the build-up factor for individual entrepreneurship is reduced and is being increased for organised enterprises. Third intervention: Simplifying organic land use by limiting general uses to have a more flexible system that facilitates mixed uses. A national land use nomenclature is hereby established, which applies uniformly to all land use projects. The use of land with the SMRs is at last equivalent, in order to limit bureaucracy and facilitate investment. Fourth point of the draft law, which is an important reform, is the activation of the transfer of the building factor. In this provision, the Ministry solves a problem which has arisen since 1978, taking into account the relevant case law of the Council of State. Just to explain in two words what exactly is being attempted by the introduction of the transport. Today, on the one hand, we have the owners of sheltered buildings, who cannot build and use the factor that deserves their land. On the other hand, we have areas in which, on the basis of environmental criteria and design, one is allowed to build, using a higher rate than that available today. The new provisions therefore create the framework for transferring surplus to areas where there is a deficit. This creates a benefit for both sides of the owners and solves a problem that has been ponding for years. The conditions for the installation of the coefficient bands shall be specified. The Digital Earth Bank, which is a key tool for the implementation of this provision, is created, as cultural heritage and property are protected through it, while owners are compensated for the limitations on the use of their property. I am going forward with the fifth intervention, which is to speed up the process of issuing building permits and strengthen the electronic process. The aim is to automatically issue all building permits after electronic submission of the dossier with the necessary supporting documents and the necessary approvals. A simplified mandatory pre-authorisation procedure for category 1 and 2 building permits is hereby established. An important complement to the reform of the building processes is the activation from the beginning of 2021 of the electronic property identity. At the same time, the new building regulation is being modernised and tackled by the large number of shortcomings and ambiguities that have existed. Flexibility is being given to form the interior of the building. This strengthens legitimate building activity and - as I have said - architectural design is being released. I also come to a provision - the section of this bill, which introduces an innovative urban tool that is the withdrawal of buildings and the expropriation of floors. In the context of the new building regulation, the withdrawal of the building will take place at the initiative of the owners, for which specific incentives are laid down, in order to dismantle areas which are heavy and pressurised environmental and climatic, while expropriation of floors concerns more aesthetic and visual issues, such as the coverage of monuments. The floors that are practically blocking the sight of monuments will be expropriated. Seventh point of the bill, rationalisation of the system of hormonal expropriations. It puts an end to the hostage of the citizens who are suffering from bureaucracy, as it provides for the equitable lifting of hormonal expropriations, if a long time has elapsed since their submission. It is also stated that a rheumatoid expropriation may be reintroduced only once. This is how the owners who remain locked in a process of continuous deferral of their property are released. Eighth point, the regulation of individual arbitrary issues arising from the process of being settled. In particular, they are included in category 4 of certain small scale infringements included in Category 5. The penalties for arbitrary structures and changes in use of Category 5 are also suspended for specific categories, such as for immovable property declared within 2020 in an emergency, acquired by means of forced auction, acquired on succession and leased under a leasing contract and returned to the use of the master of their supervisor. Absolutely reasonable arrangements. Indicate the activation of the fine for a late declaration in the Register, which will be generated on the basis of two components, the value of the property and the delay time. Here to note that the six-month period is quite sufficient for the owners to settle this pending. I continue to present the main points of the bill with two, in my view, important provisions that change the philosophy of building activity in the country, where they give a new character in terms of environmental policy or one of social sensitivity. In particular, I am referring to the provision that provides for the provision of a higher rate of building for environmentally friendly buildings. A measure which forms part of the Ministry's overall policy on energy savings and the adoption of policies that are more environmentally friendly. I am also referring to the provision providing incentives to enhance accessibility of buildings for people with disabilities. It is therefore possible to set up structures such as special railroad ramps, as well as to add lifts to buildings where there was no provision in the original building licence, and it is noted that these additions are not counted on the building coefficient. We are therefore making buildings more functional, more friendly to people with motor difficulties. It is an extremely important intervention of the draft law and I think that there is no better time than today, so that we can all vote in favour of this provision, since today is the World Disabled People's Day. In conclusion, I should like to say that the provisions in the draft law under discussion deal with the significant delay in the activation of maritime spatial planning in Greece, as the incorporation of Directive 89/2014 into Greek legislation with Law 4546/2018 effectively excluded the directive that included land-based coastal zone in marine spatial planning. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, spatial planning and urban planning are facing problems in our country. Its biggest problem is the absence of a specific, clear framework on which to design and base the organisation of the public space. This time we have to deal with today's draft law that we are working on. One could say it's the medicine we've been looking for for for so many years. The changes we are about to vote on today, ladies and gentlemen, give solutions to chronic structural problems. They settle environmental and land-use issues, promote the energy upgrade of our building stock and leave a powerful environmental and social footprint. The draft law under discussion is another proof that, in the energy, urban planning and environmental protection areas, there are specific targets. In voting for the bill, there will be the legislative framework that will enable us to make it a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the government with its first Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has set the bar high on the issues of the area of responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Indeed, the current leadership of the Ministry, Mr. Hadjidakis, the Undersecretaries and the Secretary-General, implement an extremely ambitious agenda for the environment, energy, spatial planning, renewable energy sources, defoliation of the country, rationalisation of PPC, protected areas of NATURA, forest maps, reduction of disposable plastics and all this within a year and a half. Since July 2019, fully harmonising with the main objectives set by the government and on the basis of the programme, which we presented in the election to the Greek people seek, seek, promote and offer definitive solutions to the problems of their sector of responsibility. Such an initiative we believe is the draft law under discussion, which the New Democracy is voting for and we invite colleagues from the other opposition parties to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Socrates Famelos, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place today on a very critical bill while in our society we are all fighting health. Indeed, it is difficult to get out of this context of agony, concern, the struggle of society to overcome this huge crisis, the health crisis and to talk about issues that the government is also seeking to legislate, in disparity with the sense of society and the needs and concerns of society. In fact, I must say that, from what we understand, this legislative process of the government will continue with amendments which no one yet knows about, they have never been in consultation, they change major issues in the institutional framework, but they do not deal with what is now burning our society. That is why I would like to say in advance, in response to what I have said since the first day, that the government and the majority should understand that society has serious health needs. There are major social crisis issues that we need to deal with, both with the government and the ministry. For example, we consider it unacceptable that the debate on the reduction of the amount of health in the 2021 budget should not take precedence today. We consider it unacceptable that we should not be able to have a debate on a parliamentary agreement, that the health budget should be increased to 7 %. You know, all this isn't just negligence and mistakes. There are very serious responsibilities to the government's choices that have led us here. I must say that these responsibilities include the fact that the government does not listen to science and creates serious ambiguities and serious problems to society, as well as unreliability. It is the government's choice not to make a large programme of analysis of the population, especially in Thessaloniki. And since the Secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, who is from Thessaloniki, is here, like many colleagues, I would like to state this: we cannot now reduce the analyses. We need to accelerate and multiply, so we can have a full picture of the pandemic. There must be transparency and reliability in all health data. This is linked, ladies and gentlemen, to the amendment we are tabling on transparency in the committee's minutes, so that there is both credibility and support for health. This is the second amendment tabled today by SYRIZA, because it is not enough for the hypocritical applause, Mr Ministers, for health workers, to pay for their overtime. That is why we are tabling another amendment, because the government has not provided for the overtime of health. But there are - I think - just criteria to clarify what we mean when we talk about Parliament's response to the needs of society. Today there are problems in society in terms of energy and the environment, which are indeed linked to pandemic. It does not, however, concern the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. For example, it does not deal with cutting the current, increasing the accounts, there are terrible pressures on the JHA, serious problems in society's response to electricity, gas, water, and telephone and telecommunications accounts. He stays unreasonable, without humanity in these matters. That is why SYRIZA is presenting a third amendment, which concerns the reunification of all these basic goods, but also the safeguarding of basic goods for society. What does the government now deal with? What is the government doing at this time? What does the Ministry of the Environment and Energy do? How he will sell out the public property, how he will appoint Golden Boys to structures and how he will support a parasitic and state-run operation of a small elite. You know, that's the most hypocritical. You who are in favour of the private sector, at the same time have a completely state-owned, parasitic and non-productive economic function next to you, and that is what you support, with Golden Boys in the public sector, with heavy wages and public assignments, with shops set up one day before taking supplies of health material. This is your reading, as well as the one-stop-shop transfer of all the networks in the country, that is, all the networks will be taken by a private person. That is your view of the private economy, without any competition, without anything. Mr Hatzidakis is organising this project, orchestrating this project and has sole responsibility for the fact that public infrastructure is currently being sold in this period. We believe that the House should also discuss the immediate cessation of the sale of public infrastructure which we now need as a society. We're making it clear to you. We'll do everything we can to reverse this sale. Our country is not allowed to have basic energy tools. You do not even respect the process of legislating, because we have today a bill where supervisory bodies first came to us - to tell us that the former President of Parliament - to put themselves in place without the articles of the bill being filed. Even today, four days after the bodies were heard, we do not have the articles in the bill to place ourselves. The amendments that change the whole regulatory of Athens - look out! - They came now because they hadn't even climbed into the parliament's collaboration. It had been concealed from Athens' consultation and was not in the knowledge of the citizens of Athens that the regulatory of Attica is being modified. There wasn't even opengov.gr. There wasn't even within the committees of the House. That is your logic, the concealment of publicity and unreliability in the exercise of politics. It is true that you are a champion in the last-minute amendments, as you are, Minister, champion, and in the accuracy of the current, because on your own Minister and on your own initiative, we have such an expensive current in Greece. We have been up on the basis of results from EUROSTAT in terms of accuracy in relation to other countries. And you've done a mess on the energy market! The amendment you will bring to the RES confirms that and from yesterday's statement, we will have further increases, because you have not even achieved the liberalisation of the energy market. However, because we want to be consistent with the people who are listening to us, and because today is the World Disabled People's Day, we are also tabling an amendment, which really responds to the need to extend the privileges granted for the early retirement, because these people - tens of thousands - are waiting to solve these problems of access even with a minimum allowance. But let us go a little bit on the issues of the bill, with which we disagree and in the committees we have made it clear that we will be subject to reservation, so as to enable the government to amend or withdraw some elements. However, the government seems immobile. So, what's this bill doing to be clear and to those who are likely to be watching us? First, it breaks down and delays spatial planning, imposing authoritarian central choices for land locations and uses at all levels of planning, ignoring local societies, self-government and democratic planning, with a logic of "decide and order" from the Secretary of State's office directly, while depriving spatial planning of its basic advantage, composition, participation, democratic planning, interdisciplinary and social process. And that's done with a choice from the government. It creates inequality and pluralism this bill, a salt in the off-project construction, creating new derogations, creating paper exceptions that increase building with inequality and discrimination, but at the same time reduces the value of small and very small property in vengeance, with class targeting and creates space for airplanes in the land market, who will collect land and gains tomorrow, but they will blackmail small owners today. And that's what Mr. Hatzidakis does with this bill. It makes the judgment an opportunity - frankly - within the pandemic without having any sanctuary or loyal. At the same time, she's making ruffles in banks. Banks can now arbitrarily settle for seizures, but not the citizen. It makes ruffles in a small hotel lobby, which is at the same time from the back door contractors, because it allows them the possibility of increased rates, increased loans and to sell for housing after tourist facilities with an increased rate of construction, insulting the environment and the entire building market. It also settles other interests, from the Greek to the Greek FRYSOS, which opens a new window to come out with a decision of the Deputy Minister of State overthrowing the regional planning plan of the Region of East Macedonia - Thrace and thus satisfy the announcement of the "Hellenic FRYSOS" for a new unit in Thrace. And practically it eliminates the value of the Greek structured and natural environment. At the same time, of course, the bill loses the public interest because it dismantles services, degrades the services of the Ministry of the Environment. And the amendment, which has been tabled, is another deterioration in the address of the AOCA - if I am not mistaken - because another building agency is being set up and another paramount, i.e. within the Ministry. It also creates the logic of the "revolutionary door" - the same scholars, the same supervisors - and excludes scientific bodies from instruments such as this new for spatial planning, which has no scientific body in it, to cover the obsessed idealism of the State Secretary, which was forced by the criticism he accepted to take back certain exclusions. But it is tragically inappropriate, too, in practice. It has serious problems with out-of-project regulations and exceptions, which Parliament's Scientific Service also points out. And we will find huge problems in the off-project area from the next day and warn you that you will now come with many amendments. It's an example of a bad legacy. Is this bill accelerating the planning of spatial planning? Because that's how the government says. It shall not include any acceleration adjustment. The field of spatial planning and town planning is not suffering from a lack of laws, suffers from pluralism and from application. And it is coming now, by changing words to four previous bills, to increase pluralism, and it does not go ahead with the necessary codification - which has already been announced - of legislation and which has too many powers. Imagine that it is so bad to legislate - such a start was not expected - with thirty-nine ministerial decisions and five presidential decrees, without any time commitment to extradition! Changes surgical articles by Law 4447. It creates a technical secretariat with a coordinator outside the service. And if we understood well from the amendment, it would also have a central city agency under the minister and outside the agencies. It effectively privatises the functions of planning and public services and responsibilities, while, as the representative of the Central Association of Municipalities admitted, it removes powers both from the municipalities and from the regions. And all this to set up a shop that will guide the assignments, guide the approvals and make the spatial planning scientific rousfetti. That is exactly what the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is doing now. And I must say that this seemed when the State Secretary sent the post office to the municipalities, to personally declare their choices for the most populated areas. Instead of strengthening public services, it even stopped the competition of fifty-four engineers and legal entities that would send the service of the Ministry of the Environment - which we had advanced - and two hundred and fifty recruitments for the construction services and the building observatorys, which we had also prepared. At the same time, it has come and broken down the planned town and country planning in all municipalities, which it had from the government of SYRIZA and specifications - published in FEK - and procedures with a timetable - published in FEK - and funding - published ministerial decision - and a press conference with the European Investment Bank and an invitation by the Hellenic Society for Local Development and Government to finance. And I also present the invitation and all the FEKs, to prove that all this was scheduled in 2018, 2019 by the SYRIZA government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And while funding and procedure have also been guaranteed, the Minister and the State Secretary are coming and eighteen months is delaying the proclamation of local town planning, so that they can demolition after the plan they are discussing today. And so the possibility of designing a municipality as a whole is being lost, in fact the first principle of sustainable development is being removed, and where there is strategic planning - with loopholes in the laws - is being modified in the bill so that it does not apply. In other words, the regulation in addition to the legislation that we had as the government of SYRIZA, which says in the case of regional spatial planning projects, has been 'committed to implement the special projects', that is, what the State Secretary himself draws up and approves. In addition, he writes another proposal, "and only if the specific framework gives them approval". In other words, it is surgical - if you like - the anti-democratic approach which is currently being attempted by the Secretary-General's office and the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment as a whole. And I wonder, Mr. Hatzidakis, do you know all this? Are you aware of these, the additions, the undemocratic and authoritarian that restrict even the design? Because the Undersecretary tried yesterday to mislead the House and say it's SYRIZA regulations, but he doesn't know we can read. He has this arrogance that he thinks the rest don't know exactly what's going on inside the ministry. Such an example is probably the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK", because this is how they tend to regulate, while the municipalities were clear. They came and said to retire the bill and be reviewed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because he's at the same time aalum, because the wolf says - in antiquity he's glad. But is the draft law abolishing outside construction? No, it does not, instead, complicate it, and in some cases speeds it up and pushes it. The intention of the Ministry of the Environment's political leadership - we are watching the Minister in the interviews anyway - is to come out and say heroically "we have abolished the off-project construction". The opposite does: it is so much scientific and political in this matter that we will find it difficult for the next government to unfold the box created in the field of spatial planning. It delays local plans of selected municipal units, so that the issue of out-of-plan is not solved. All institutions and the Chamber of Technical Chambers are not SYRIZA. And the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities and environmental organisations, no one is in the SYRIZA executives. They said that the planning, which is being delayed by the government in order not to organise, limit and eliminate off-project construction, should be preceded, but to play with interests. The choice of abolishing derogations for a small area has a specific and socio-economic but also an environmental sign. It undermines and underestimates the value of small and medium-sized property, the brokers themselves said. He's blackmailing small and medium-sized property. Of course, regulation is wrong, even for what it claims to be, because it speeds up construction in derogations areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will take three minutes from my dentistry, Mr President. In other words, it has the exact opposite effect, Mr President. Is building up in derogations speeding up, so where? In areas without roads, without shared spaces, without a rhymotomy and it says "build fast!". On the one hand, he blackmails them to sell their property, because who has money to build now? - and, on the other hand, he says to them 'get up deaf, even building skeletons, to guarantee the right to leave'. This is also an insult to the environment, insulting both property, insulting and planning. And at the same time, it's an insult to the popular need. It is currently taking advantage of the tolerance, the pandemic, so that some "airplanes" can take advantage of and take the property of the citizens. And it doesn't forbid building from the four acres or more. On the contrary, in mixed tourists, it is raised by 35% - can you imagine? - and gives them the opportunity to 40% of those who will take it with loans, which will be taken on special urban conditions, which will take it and work in tourism, to do so. And so it dissolves the space of the real construction, which is not involved with "air conditioners". These are the settings they pass, specializing in some hotel lobby, because camping has them outside the settings. They can't even make standard spaces to get the license. And so it reduces the property of the citizens and underestimates the value of land instead of doing the simplest, which would be designed, including the zones around the settlements, it will organise, potentially limit land by road, it will give real values and shared spaces. Of course, we must say this clearly, that those who are built are saying that it will cut after six years from the outside of the plan, that it gives them - with the regulations of the construction regulation, from the Greek to anywhere else - to the friends of the system, because there are regulations that increase construction within the bill. They are therefore more counter-environmental, and in the cases of arbitrary cases they make this terrible set-up, carpeting to banks, which can regulate seized properties, but not the citizens, and they have not solved the question of e-identity, due to the lack of recruitment, of buildings. Of course, it restricts the inhabitants to enter EXOCONOLOGY, even in the very hard-pressed lignite regions, and we will then refer to this. So that's not an equivalency. It is the definition of discrimination, inequality. Of course, it does not make it simple, which we have proposed synthetically, to agree on a national strategy, mature and move the political process further, so that the plans of the municipalities can limit and eliminate outside construction. That is not what we want to do either, because we have proposed that there should be such an agreement and that planning should go ahead. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Finally, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing down, Mr President - that this bill is not environmental. It's counter-environmental. First of all, it is counter-environmental that you are so densely condensing building in certain areas, even downgrading the tourist product. It's suicidal to limit the natural environment to the areas of tourism, because tourism wants a natural environment. The Secretary-General with his ideals and choice of coastal space from maritime planning is removed, in a country where we will have major climate crisis issues and an increase in sea levels. This is what world studies say, but it takes away, because it has an unscientific and short-sighted view on these issues. Because it very simply considers that the coastal area is an obstacle to development, while it is a wealth of development that is the coastal area. And beyond the climate approach that he forgets, a key issue that is also anti-environmental, is that it stops the hormonal expropriations, which are mentioned in parks, squares, in the opening of roads. So the municipalities lose tools to improve the structured environment and find no other solution, neither free resources from the Green Fund nor solve the issue of illegal owners, nor any reform. We simply freeze expropriations and thus stay in the middle streets, which have never opened up to our municipalities, especially those who have no economic potential, unless you do politics only for the municipalities that have economic potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u32	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've arrived four minutes longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u33	I must say that there are tragic photographic arrangements - and I conclude, Mr President - from schools to agricultural land, to health tourism in forests, to high productivity land that is no longer allowed to have houses, but only to have photovoltaics. At the same time it downgrades environmental inspectors. It makes them a secretariat of the private individuals who want to bring about environmental inspection, which puts the public interest at risk, but also the private sector of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great effort to highlight all this in the Ministry of the Environment's political leadership, to withdraw the anti-grassroots and anti-environment regulations and to find a solution. We have shown it with an analysis of the articles in which the implementation of this bill will be stuck. But the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment does not want to hear any such proposal. We therefore state that this bill is dangerous, dangerous, both for society and for development and for the environment. And we will obviously be completely opposed, not only in this bill, but also in all the attempts with amendments from the back door, which Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Economou will pass, which will only be aimed at "detecting" interests and making Greek society very expensive to pay the price of a catastrophic Greek government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too, Mr. Femmelle. The special speaker of the Movement of Change, George Arvanitides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the practice followed by the Minister, we have come to an agreement on Thursday 3 December, and we are still looking for the amendment that the Minister would have tabled, as he had announced last Friday, 27 November, which he announced earlier on Friday and 13 November. You choose, Minister, to 'play the priest' with the House, here's an amendment, there's an amendment, nowhere the amendment, and to discuss something which is invisible, as I described before. You wonder - and that's impressive - and you say you don't understand our reactions. So final state, so modern, so respectful in Parliament and we do not understand your efforts to improve things. And now the Deputy Minister, who is a technocrat, of course - not a parliamentarian - has also been asking himself, after he announced, saying, "But what is your problem? This is the parliamentary procedure.' He announces something, so a presumption of acceptance. It's very simple. He doesn't even want to study it, he doesn't want to improve it, he doesn't want to talk about it. And it is to wonder why such an important area, such as energy, spatial planning, the environment, on which you yourself supported and supported your narrative of green development, has such a rough approach and treatment, Mr Minister, of you. All in all, as Minister, you have tabled nine amendments to your term of office - ten to today - which regulate key energy issues and everything at the last minute. Isn't that a tactic? This is simply that "successful, pressured problems and that's why we're coming at the last minute?" That is why I think you could get the title of the Environment, Energy and Amendment Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u36	That's good!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u37	I hope, of course, that the record of the previous government, of the SYRIZA - ANEL, which is the only measure, unfortunately, every time the Minister, has. I would remind you, by making an anniversary flash back, that right here in this Chamber five years ago, on 4 December 2015, it was the previous government, which brought twenty-four amendments to a bill of twenty articles, entitled 'Bossible lands of Greece and other provisions'. It was when some were looking for pastures to get channels. And now Mr Hatzidakis invokes the very naive argument: 'But since the previous ones have done worse than that, why should I not?' Do we expect this place to go forward with this attitude of government and Civicism? Some do not want to understand the needs of the time and the change of attitudes that we need, especially that the political system needs. Ten years of crisis and difficulties, unfortunately, did not make us understand that 'we change or sink' is always timely. But because I want to be fair, I have been waiting for some reference to a draft law by the previous undersecretary of State, our former colleague, George Diaras, to be made by the economists. I didn't see anyone mention him, nor did SYRIZA who was running back then. Maybe because he quickly forgot his ecological component. So then, the competent Deputy Minister of the Environment George Diaras had, unfortunately, presented with a closed parliament on the eve of the elections on June 24, 2019, a bill on urban regeneration, a bill that should not be left in drawers, as he said at the time. In the drawers too, the issues that had been raised in good intentions have not been moved in the same direction. So today we have the bill of the present government entitled 'Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Law', with the Minister talking to us about a major reform. And one would expect Mr. Economou, who is well aware of the issues of spatial planning, to dare and not just to make arrangements and arrangements. As I said at committee meetings, however, there is no modernisation and this is not a big reform. He's just trying to make arrangements. It does not protect the environment or citizens' ownership rights, nor will it run at exceptional speeds any sustainable development due to the arrangements that this bill brings. And there is no modernisation, because there is no modernization and much reform if you change points two, three newly adopted laws. Unless you call it, Minister, modernising the moral, political and national responsibility you have for making use of the European resources of the Development Fund, that is to say, in the current context. The only practical and real intention is to make local urban plans now that we can because we have the resources from the Development Fund. I understand that as a rationale. You will even be much inferior to the circumstances if instead of planning efficient and measurable use of resources you start to redistribute resources and funds for studies here and there, or at the end, to take away the problems that your ineffectiveness will cause to the co-ordinator who chooses to institutionalise or the maliciousness of the Greek state. It is neither modernising nor, of course, promoting environmental protection when you look at the role of a poor relative, with poor means and staffing for the Environment Inspectorate. Unless you believe that by maintaining it, perhaps, as another address of the Ministry and turning some new responsibilities into the shortcomings of Articles 124 and 125, which are in its other provisions of your reform legislation, environmental control in the country is being modernised. Where is the reform proposed by the Pissaridis report? Incidentally, does this cove, ideas, the framework end up calling for the upgrading of the Environmental Inspectorate to an independent authority? If you adopt it, that this guide will proceed in the future, do it. So that's an arrangement. Whenever it suits us, we invoke the report, the Recovery Fund. Even WWF pointed out to you that bureaucratic responsibilities are being burdened with the Environment Inspectorate without starting. And how are you going to convince us that you are cutting out for Green Agenda for environmental protection when in the first year of your own governance from July 2019 to July 2020, the Northern Greece Inspectorate, for example, carried out a total of forty-eight inspections and only seven cases of this were able to be completed by a fine decision. The evidence of the Southern Greece Inspection Corps is also relevant. The cases and the themes checked were the Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal Municipal This is the pollution in the country. These cases he saw and imposed symbolic fines. I shall therefore submit the same answers that your Ministry has given me to the corresponding questions that I have submitted. [[At this point Mr Georgios Arvanitidis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] People and executives of environmental inspectors fight unequally with environmental crime, and you degrade them to a bureaucratic agency. So what modernisation and environmental protection are you talking about? Nor is it modernising or protecting the environment, nor are property rights protected by the arrangements you bring for the off-project construction. I described them deeply as classics, and the Deputy Minister replied to me that he was disturbed, that not all expected them to be written in that wording. I did this because the great and powerful people who can buy the most useless parcels, eliminate the small property of the ordinary world and even promote their own special town plan. That's the way it is. Why do you not give more time to the transitional provisions? Everyone's asking you. These timetables are not realistic, Minister. We've told you to put at least five years. Simply, Greece has been in this situation for all the years of its democracy. Five years are bothering if we really are to solve a problem so that we all know that since local town planning, what are the rules in that country? So you should bring in a separate bill only for out-of-plan construction to mark that a major problem that you want to solve. We don't think we're gonna keep a class out of plan real estate. We are saying clearly that out-of-project construction must be abolished as it is today, but not to the detriment of micro-ownership, such as the arrangements you bring about. We agree that outside the construction plan it depreciates the landscape by fragmenting and expanding the ecological footprint. Building should be limited to the built-up areas and outside of the project only for specific uses. Goodwill in agricultural parcels, yes, but in an organised way and functional transitional arrangements, without penetrating small investments and property in the air. So a lot more needs to be changed in this bill. I would like to point out the clear contradiction: in the outside structure plan. Restricted micro-owners and the tourist facilities of the large complex tourist accommodation, when the pandemic changes the profile of tourism worldwide. Do we know what tourism will be like next period? It is not modernising and the property rights of all citizens are not protected, when you exceptionally bring "gifts" to the banks and high buildings in the Greek. Why are you only giving the banks the right to settle the major arbitrages of the real estate in their portfolios, and this deadline has passed? Do we wonder if the auctions can move forward in an unintentionally and faster manner? Why are you giving free measures to the very high buildings, indirectly removing various facilities from the building factor? It is not modernisation and property rights are not protected on an equal footing when the fines for late statement in the register are increased or you are maintaining injustices of the laws of the previous government. I pointed out to the committee Article 80, where we believe that you should bring changes to the method of calculating the block exemptions in category 5. We have also told you that bringing increases within 2021 to the fines for the Land register is no more than helping to complete it. There is still a lot of work to be done to eliminate many bureaucratic procedures imposed by existing legislation, n.4595, in order to facilitate the work of engineers and citizens. It is not modernisation and property rights are not protected unless the particular conditions of each mountain area or island region, as laid down in Article 101, are not guaranteed. Unless you consider that with your announcements, for the priority preparation of special town plans in Mykonos and Santorini, you are fulfilling the island clause. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what I have tabled to the committee and the amendments tabled by the Change Movement, allow me some thoughts and suggestions on the draft law in question and on what it should serve. It should therefore serve balanced sustainable development between the centre and the region. We should move on to balanced sustainable development in Athens, Thessaloniki and the countryside. It is for every government not to ostracize as far as existing legislation is concerned and to dare real reforms. Unfortunately, here we are not dealing with reform, despite the government's narratives and majestics. Of course, there are provisions that are in the right direction and we will vote in favour of them, such as regulations for disabled people or an extension for one year to the final entries in the register. It is something that, as a parliamentary group in the Change Movement, we had asked for a relevant question on 16 November. Of course, however, this bill is not a reform, but it will, on the contrary, bring deregulation if certain issues are dealt with without change. It should also have had this bill to have a more cooperative spirit and seek consent and not be classic and crusade. It needed a collaborative spirit between many ministries, structures and levels of administration to eliminate procedures that favour bureaucracy and prevent the real economy and its needs. Unfortunately, however, we do not see this spirit in your choices, Minister, since in many parts of the bill you are showing that you want to smoke the procedures and the appropriate ministries. That is why I described you and described it as a 'great landlord', which will decide for everything and a year later will decide and what expropriations the Green Fund will make. It would have to be this bill not simply confined to the green wrapping up of a account to abolish the off-site construction, but to get into a truly green content that we care about with our essential proposals that we continue to present. Green content with the benefit of the human being, which we always have as our focus in our policy. Green content for the benefit of the many and not the few. Why should strong ones be donated and small ones limited? How green is that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minimum of time, Mr. President. The Change Movement suggested among others that there should be a relative provision in the preparation of local urban plans, to increase the green rate per inhabitant in the Greek cities that approach the European average. Let's dare. Also, the undeclared and unknown property in the municipalities of the country and not the state should be in danger of reaching the superstate. In this way, municipalities will be able to make use of urban properties for the creation of social housing and rural areas for the restoration of landless farmers. We also propose that a contribution should be made to the National Social Solidarity Account for the pensions of young generations from the concessions of maritime areas for renewable energy projects in line with Law 4162. Ladies and gentlemen, Joseph Campbell, an American professor and writer, said: "If he wants to see what a society really believes, he has only to look at the horizon of a city and see where its largest buildings are dedicated." So let's look around us, let's make our self-criticism all of us, even though we're finally honest with ourselves and with each other. What do we think of as a society and where do the new generations of Greeks want to live and believe? In the unidentified neighborhoods and in the ever higher unaccountable apartments with increases in building and covering factors that the government gives as an incentive to withdraw buildings? Why should these incentives not be reduced municipal charges or tax exemptions? To withdraw, let's dare to withdraw whole blocks. Let us consider what the value of Psychics and Kifisia or even Kalamata, Nafplio or Chania would be with large buildings in height. Let us remember, finally, that we are in the country where it was once glorified, because its inhabitants had the human measure in their culture, the measure in the sense of the human scale, but also in the sense of good and aesthetics. Houses and people make a city, but also vice versa, a city makes people and their homes to form. The Romans made Rome, but also Rome was despising authority to all to make them like the Romans when they visited her. Therefore, a spatial and urban draft is basically theme of culture and political priorities set by the respective authority, political and cultural priorities, which, as they come to the core of this bill, but also the energy regulations that will be added, are deeply counter-progressive and classic. That is why we will vote against it in principle, as its basic provisions and philosophy are not judged in the direction of sustainable green urban development, not to combat unregulated building and not to modernise the institutional framework of our country's planning. In short, they are provisions below the circumstances and needs of the time, country and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. The bill: "Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation" has met many reactions, including the CEDE, which we know are in favour of the government, which, by a unanimous decision of the Board of Directors and by its official communication, but also many regional associations of municipalities demand the withdrawal of the bill. It is a bill that does not solve people's problems, because unwittingly, ruthlessly and unwittingly serves great economic interests. In fact, with the amendment you have now given us - inadmissible procedure - you level out every obstacle by even taking responsibility for the construction of municipalities that pass directly on to the Minister. Of course, the road has been opened by SYRIZA specifically for strategic investment, as you say. So much for dealing with the problems of poverty and her suffering. You have not even taken care of public health, you have not taken the appropriate measures. That is why, firstly, it is a bill of class, because it robs and concentrates micro-ownership on the earth in large capitalist holdings, favours main banking, tourism and construction capital at the expense of popular strata. You have again done the same in the amendment as large gifts to the group that bought, that is, free of charge, the Greek one. It is, of course, characteristic that properties, which have fallen into the nails of the forced auction banks, are excluded from any sanctions. You are thus challenging the recapitalisation of the banks and you do not hesitate to criminalize by law SYRIZA and you are arresting trade unionists, who have defended a family not to put their only house out in auction. Shame on you! Fines and penalties only for poverty! Moreover, the concentration of the land into a few hands has been speeding up in recent years and with a number of laws such as the Banking Code, forest maps, while this bill is intensified after making more obstacles to the construction of micro-owners. Therefore, owners of young people who do not have economic opportunities to build at this transitional stage a few years and, even in a period of new economic crisis, their micro-ownership is completely discredited. So promote the restriction of off-site construction in the name of supposedly environmental protection at the same time favouring off-site construction in the tourist, construction capital. In fact, the purpose of the draft law from the first article is clearly stated that the aim is to speed up and simplify procedures with modifications and corrections, i.e. to quickly clear up the organization of the area and the uses of land to ensure that the landscape of investment for the monopolistic groups is clean. Here and here the National Garden, the municipality of an anonymous company, made it a privatization. Don't rule out and pay a ticket to get through. Secondly, it is counter-environmental and anti-grassroots, because it speeds up the commercialisation of state land and, above all, forests, forest land, property of public institutions and businesses and others belonging to the people. In local town planning, you ignore the forestry service and seek to legitimise any illegal expansion, even before 1923, while there are decisions by the Council of State that they cannot be demarcated and legitimized if the nature of the area that is normally the case for state forests has not been solved. In fact, you seek to demarcate settlements before 1923, but on the basis of the situation in 1981. Local towns cannot legitimise state land violations for decades. There are decisions of the Council of State that consider any demarcation to be unconstitutional. There is nothing to be said about the approval of forest service, of course, while the latter are stumbling under Article 24 of the Constitution. And you do not stop here, but at the Central Board of Disputes, which is created, the Minister, together with the directors, has the majority in this body, while the Director-General for Forests does not participate, i.e. the representative of the Forest Service, which manages and protects 65% of the land area that is forest and forest land, and most of it is state property. While much of them have been violated over time, illegal changes in the use and nature of land have been made, as has been done hundreds, thousands of counterfeit contracts that give ownership to private interests at the expense of state-owned forest property, do not protect them. On the contrary, the anti-environmental character of the bill reaches the permanentization of the violation and illegality always in favour of capital. In this context, NATURA areas of particular nature, but also residential areas, are not protected against factors which could harm the environment in which residents and institutions are opposed. More generally, the speed and safety of investment planning and capitalist development are further promoted, while all the rest, which are about people's needs, are outside. Nowhere are they mentioned in the bill, such as building public schools. We need many school rooms or sports and cultural facilities, earthquakes, anti-military works, public spaces and so on. There is no provision for meeting the need for a people's housing. All of this is in the case of the bill, like other previous laws by other governments, because these are incompatible with the needs of monopolies. It's authoritarian. The Minister, each Minister, gathers responsibility for services. It also abolishes any restrictions on land use and their direct association with the investment projects of the monopolistic groups, with priority for investments in so-called green development - mockery - on land and sea. Therefore, the pursuit of a link between spatial planning processes and development plans reveals government policy with a view to making land uses subject even more effective to strategic investment options. In all this, if we add the commercialisation of state property to ports, airports, mountains, beaches, forests, forest areas and others - which all governments have done - it turns out that the government is adapting spatial planning to land and sea to the needs and design of business groups, domestic and foreign. With local town planning, it specializes, facilitates and clears up the investment landscape. But as far as fines are concerned, when one has submitted a late statement of property to the property register, it will depend not on the value of the property, but also on the time of delay. Therefore, at the expense of people's classes for the first residence, which may not have declared because of financial impossibility to pay the fine. There's more. Like the issue of maritime spatial planning, which comes to respond to the need to increase the exploitation of marine waters and to increase the use of accumulated funds. It concerns a lot of energy, submarine transport, underwater tourism infrastructure, fish farms, renewable energy production facilities, exploration and exploitation of oil and natural gas, maritime transport and fisheries activities, extraction of raw materials, tourism, facilities and so on. They are very important as parts that are of interest to capital and are very profitable. This is why competition is increasing, and that is why you are also promoting the organisation of the marine space. Of course, this is also a question of transnational issues and the directions of the European Union. The great interest forces the government into fast track procedures with pressing timetables and very short consultation times for these projects. At the same time, the SYRIZA-New Democracy assemble is revealed in the most resounding and official way in facilitating the profitable action of capital against the quality of life and the environment, after leaving the anti-grass provisions of Law 4546/2018 untouched. It is the incorporation into Greek legislation of a European directive that shields an article - an article criminals, at the expense of the Aegean and the beach - provisions of Law 4607/2009. The purpose is to decouple the coastal area from marine spatial planning. Article 17 is distinctive. In fact, since the scheme of exploitation of the Aegean and the beach is regulated by business groups under the provisions of Law 4607. It is clear that with this disconnection you are seeking to safeguard this investment fillet from any future legislative involvement. It is no coincidence that exactly this law of SYRIZA is one of the first to be supported by the Government of New Democracy, which is why it fully implemented and implemented a joint Ministerial Decision of 2020 of 47458. In total, therefore, a framework of placement is being established for the benefit of the large groups in tourism, construction and so on. It is provided through the Board of the National Spatial Strategy, whose composition and role will be in the interests of the groups. You also ensure that spatial planning on land and sea serves the capital faithfully and does not deviate under pressure, popular reactions or even conflicting provisions. Moreover, the Central Council for Spatial Affairs and Disputes you are creating is a tool to give opinions and to ensure the compatibility of the spatial frameworks and plans of all categories and levels with the overarching spatial planning, which is, of course, centrally designed within the framework of the guidelines of the European Union. But also the transfer of your multi-famous building coefficient will lead to a change in the character of whole regions and the legalisation of arbitrary areas through the transfer of a build-up factor. In fact, you also found another alibi to premium additional build-up coefficient in buildings made with high energy efficiency standards. Furthermore, the provision for the introduction of certified private engineering for the assessment of spatial studies leads to further privatisation of spatial and urban planning, while on the basis that spatial arrangements affect land values catalytically, conditions of land-based intensity, profitability of land traders and all parts of business groups that are active or active in these structures, as well as the provision of specific times for rhetorical expropriations or otherwise, self-evident removal of rhemotional expropriations, will be established. It favours owners who will blackmail for better expropriations. So everything works for the profitability of capital. You are even getting to the point of adopting a preliminary study of geological suitability, so the next basic and critical study of the next stage, relating to the safety of existing towns and settlements, as well as to the safety of new towns, is being abolished. There is a protest from the Panhellenic Association of Geologists, as well as from the Agricultural Chamber of Greece. However, innumerable are the authorizing provisions, the various presidential decrees on land use to specialise new conditions for the off-project construction and many of the ministerial decisions that will be adopted, to complete a spatial policy, land use policy, according to the interests of the Greek Industrial Association, the STE members of the banking groups. That's what you're doing. So our criticism in urban policy is based on all the modern needs, including the cover for modern, qualityly good, safe and cheap housing, with all the urban conditions and the minimisation of environmental intervention, the guarantee of health and safety for workers and residents, the calculation of the effects on the whole of economic life, the sporting spaces, entertainment, social and political association of workers, the constant work with growing free time, the rapid, cheap and safe access of workers and the people's families and others. It is not within the framework of the capitalist development path, which is inhuman, barbaric, unrealistic and only profit-making. The objective and criterion for the organisation of the social area for the JRC is the combined satisfaction of all the people's needs, the specific social use of land and land in general, so as to separate the agricultural production for tourism, quality popular housing, social services infrastructure, industrial production, environmental protection, etc. But this presupposes social property on earth, the central planning of the economy, it presupposes the break-up and overthrowing of monopolies and their power. We are therefore voting against and we shall ask for a roll-call vote in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution, as a special speaker, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we said in committee, this draft law seems to modernise existing spatial and urban legislation. In this context, it seeks to establish a new set of laws that will include amendments and changes of three main precedents, but which remain in force. However, we have seen that it is attempting to change the current regulation adopted by a Presidential Decree. The positive points of the bill are that it restricts the bureaucratic procedures for issuing building permits, while it removes many administrative agencies from long-term approvals and meaningless procedures that afflict citizens, as well as engineers. However, there is an even greater need for the services to be released from the relevant authorisations, which are to the point of hostage and dependence of engineers on the issue of building permits. At some point, the process of issuing building permits must be automated. In addition, the private engineer should assume the full responsibility, since otherwise his certification by the State via the TEI does not make any sense. The positive aspects of the draft legislation certainly include the treatment of disabled people. as regards their easier access to the design of the building complex. A number of such sensitive issues are resolved by the provisions of Article 119. However, by looking at a number of additions to the article which we referred to in the committee, we have seen that these are negative provisions, since those responsible can take advantage of them at their best. Therefore, the framework for exemption of buildings from the obligation to provide accessibility to small and medium-sized enterprises is being extended, which we consider incomprehensible and we cannot accept. We therefore objected to the fact that we hoped that the government would be given the necessary importance, since this group of people must pay particular attention. As we have said to many committees, it is outrageous that the government, on the one hand, does not take into account our comments, on the other hand, only answers SYRIZA's questions, obviously because it is easier, that is to say, because it applies what SYRIZA has adopted, so it can counter him without any problem. To substantiate, we will mention a small part of Mr. Economou’s speech yesterday, saying: “They can overthrow the designs of the municipalities, in fact, because they are overthrown, based on SYRIZA’s legislation. That's what Mr. 4447 says. It says they're overreacting and local planning needs to be harmonized. Is that our fault? The Special Spatial-Trade Framework for IPOs, says Mr. Economou, "was entrusted to the Government of SYRIZA, in the knowledge of this legislation. So, why are we to blame? Why do we move on to a specific spatial framework, which has been developed in SYRIZA under the legislation of SYRIZA? We're not making any change. That is why I am saying that Mr Famelos is oppositioning if not himself, at least in the previous political leadership." That's what Mr. Economou said. So, having noted all this, we wondered why the New Democracy sought its election when it continued with the same policy, namely the one that the troika actually imposes, whatever party it is running. Just for the prestige of power? Is it not a shame for the voters and their MPs? Our aim, however, is to be constructive and not simply to oppose, as is the case with other parties. The Greek Solution, of course, is a liberal patriotic party, which believes in the national state, that supporters of globalisation and uncontrolled immigration want to abolish, not to an extreme neoliberal, submissive party, such as the New Democracy. Our differences, however, which are truly enormous, must not prevent our work, that is to say, our contribution to making Greece what it really deserves to the extent that our electoral power allows us. By the way, Mr Loverdo, do you really want to talk about the eight-year-old Signite? I very much appreciate you and you deserve the position of President of PASOK - with the new ABM, of course, which makes it easier not to pay more than 200 million he owes - but is there any reason to substantiate the role of Mr Simitis in Imia, from which Turkish aggression began? We are not all aware of the swap with 'GOLDMAN SACHS', the stock market scandal, the drug scandal, launched in 1997, while 'NOVARTIS' is only the tip of the iceberg and the doubling of private debt in the years of its governance, holidays, etc.Huh? Aren't we aware of the armaments scandal condemned by Mr. Tsochazopoulos and Mr. Papantoniou, the case of party corruption with Mr. Tsukatos and all the rest? Of course, the party was swollen by the Karamanlis government, but the starting point was the previous government. If you insist, however, I will analyse in a next plenary the eight-year Senate, giving evidence and tables for documentation. In this respect, as far as the non-project construction is concerned, in particular Articles 32 and 33 which we have asked to withdraw, we have seen that the Secretary-General was pretending that he does not understand, of course, the word that we support unregulated construction. However, no sensible person would agree to continue, let alone because there is nothing different in the other countries of Europe. Our objections relate to the time chosen for the construction of the plots under the four acres, especially as regards the short deadline for obtaining a licence, only two years at a time when Greeks because of the memoranda, the pandemic, the constant lockdown, and so on, are experiencing a huge fall in their incomes, with no prospect of improvement for the immediate future - none at all - if mismanagement of the economy continues. So they are not in a position to make good use of their land, so they are in danger of losing much of their value, since they will certainly be underestimated. In particular, with regard to Article 12, we decided that this was a timely, cumbersome and pre-formative one, because once again this bill does not solve the problems of delimiting settlements before 1923 in many areas. We stressed that definitive solutions should finally be given to the citizens of this country. The Greek Constitution defines the right of every citizen both to his or her property and to exercise his or her right to it. We have also mentioned our proposals in the debate in the first place. Unfortunately, however, no answer was actually given either to these questions. Why, really? Is the demands of their inhabitants not correct, such as those of the Stop or Dionysus? What are the hands of the government for which it does not agree? We didn't hear anything at all. It is also important in Article 80 that category 3, which concerns small interventions, is also important. They should be completely relieved of the payment of the EUR 250 paradox, because 70% of Greece's properties have such small violations, but they do not offend the country's environmental balance, which should be of interest to us. These are unjustified carpets - and they are not the only ones - which are unfairly burdened by the citizens. With regard to the electronic identity of the buildings, which was institutionalised ten years ago, it has not yet been implemented, we stressed that it is due to the inability of the state mechanisms to digitalise the country's building stock archive. "No" to Greek citizens, but they have been paying for the mistakes and omissions of the state for decades now. In addition, we said that there were no institutional dealings with the loss of permit files from the archives of the building offices, mainly in relation to buildings built before 1970. In this respect, it is clear that a practical, fast, inexpensive and flexible solution must be given, because, with the omissions and the deregulation of the responsibility of the administration, it is attempting to transfer its responsibilities to citizens and engineers. Continuing, we said that without it being known in society, the need to overthrow the urban system as regards the off-project construction is suddenly attempting to pass a bill that will surely destroy many small property. These are property of people who are tired of getting them legally, paying taxes on transfer and legacy, notaries, engineers, etc. In addition, many owners have taken loans to make use of their property, often mortgageing even their own homes. What will be the end of these people after the total depreciation of these lands? Has the government considered it before drawing up the draft law, or does it simply consider that the Greeks have fallen their heads after ten years of monuments and are not going to react? I am not an economist, but as an economist, I consider this type of method to be criminal, assuming that we are being imposed by creditors, with the aim of completely robbing our country, namely changing the property regime, with the Greeks turning into cheap debt slaves of the new owners of their country, unfortunately. As far as the transitional period for maintaining derogations is concerned, the two years provided for in the housing bill have been said to be inadequate for the following reasons. Firstly, the bill does not provide enough incentives for citizens to obtain building permits. Secondly, there are no longer any derogations for building capacity for too many land cases. In particular, for in-band plots with more than two thousand square metres area, it is introduced as an additional condition for building, the requirement to have a minimum front in a public area of twenty-five metres and a minimum depth of forty-five metres, while not including any derogations with an area of more than four thousand square metres, which have time to create before 17-10-1978. In other words, the vast majority of the land is excluded. Third, they have not yet been characterised by presidential decrees as category (a) or (b) municipal roads, as provided for in the bill and in accordance with the procedure laid down. Experience has established that this entire process may last not two years, but more than ten, so the land owners will find themselves in an unpleasant position not to be able to exploit their assets. In any case, the imposition in a horizontal way of legislation that does not find any basis for the majority of the members of society, but on the contrary create inequality or worse, serves the interests of the few and economic powerful, it is certain that it will fail, if it does not lead to social unrest, when at some point Greeks wake up to their lethargy. As far as maritime spatial planning is concerned, Chapter B, from Article 17 to 30, is concerned, it is important, inconclusive, ineffective, inefficient, inefficient, vulnerable, unstable and unstable, since, in order to implement its provisions and to have any beneficial effects on the economy, tourism, cultural development, entrepreneurship, energy, shipping, fisheries, aquaculture, etc., our territorial waters in the 12 nautical miles must first be extended, and our maritime fishing zones and EEZ must be declared. Continuing, aquaculture in recent years has emerged in a high sector in which our country can become internationally competitive - unfortunately, Turkey has now passed us - especially because of the considerable length of its coastal front. In this context, the recent L.4711/2020 of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has made an important effort to improve the licensing framework for water crops. In addition, however, the framework of urban legislation accompanying this activity should be modernised, especially in the case of land or aquaculture, as already under this draft law and with the specialisation of maritime spatial planning, there are fragmentary steps for water installations. Finally, without mentioning the articles again, since we have analysed them in committee one by one, we have stressed that there is no quantification of the costs of the General Accounting Office of the State, although there are several regulations which will create costs which will be covered, as the budget says, but which will not be specified. In conclusion, we have expressed our hope that the reference to Article 37.2.b should be theoretical, since further investment in tourism would be unacceptable. Our interest should focus on changing our productive model, not on perpetuating the bankrupt model of post-mortemism and monuments, be it mass tourism or building houses. In conclusion, we stressed that several provisions of the bill are photographic. Their main objective is to support large groups, while fully depreciating citizens' assets in areas with plots below four acres. These are the reasons and others that we have analysed in the committees, for which we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u44	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u45	With his dear friend and colleague, Mr Villander, who has knitted him many times yesterday, we had a debate in which he came back for the eighth year of Simitis. Mr President, knowing the Rules of Procedure, I do not want to interrupt the flow of the rapporteurs. I would ask you, however, once the next sixth rapporteur is finished, to give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u46	Mr Loverdos, immediately after Mr Arsenis, the President of the Greek Group of Parliament has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u47	Then obviously after the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u48	You can come up with it. There's no problem, otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u49	I owe you one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u50	The floor is given by the special speaker of Mera25 Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, MPs and MPs, the bill we are discussing brings immediate construction or sale, they want - they do not want - to small landowners under the four acres and building as long as they want, where they want, whenever they want to do, in the large businesses in the off-project area. You, Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Economou, say that you are reducing out of plan construction. In fact, if you did, we'd be with you, we'd support you. However, I shall repeat a little the words of Mr Hatzidakis in his first and only speech to the committee: 'Those who are in a hurry to build' - and refer to the estates under the four acres - 'have six years to do so. Those who are not in a hurry can wait for local town planning." What exactly do you mean, Minister, when you say that those who are not in a hurry will wait for local projects? Because so far these local projects have included a ban on derogations. So, you're going to change the specifications of these plans? Will they stop including the prohibition of derogations and these plans? Is that what you're telling us reluctantly? That's what's supposedly positive about this bill. We now move on to its 'heart, the increase in the outside construction plan for the major insurmountable projects. These are private tourist villages, complex tourist accommodations, which will now be allowed to be built in even fifty acres, when they are classified as small-scale, while the building coefficient and the rest is increased by 25%. This is a reduction in outside building. Private tourist villages are a regulation, a legacy, which we fought and won at the National Spatial Planning Council all the members and representatives in 2008 and 2009, Minister, against a mighty predecessor of yours, Mr. Sufflia, who had lost no battle, but lost it. It was lost because not only were the environmental organizations together, but the BSE and GSE, the GSE, the Hotel Chamber, the TEI, the GEOTEE, the association of architects, who only had to leave this bill with the National Spatial Planning Council. Why did all of these people stand across the street, the whole society across the street? For as far as these tourist villages are concerned, they are illegal state aid to private individuals. And they are illegal state aid to private individuals for a very simple reason: they allow housing to be built on rates and privileges of hotels in exponentially multiple construction factor - and I say 'expositive', because it increases depending on the extent - in relation to what is permitted for the rest of the citizens and the one who used any contractor up to now. That is why they are, in fact, state aids and discretionary behaviour of the state towards entrepreneurs and citizens. Anarcha, of course. Corresponding shells of such projects can be admired in both Sitia and Lemnos and elsewhere. Now, in order to "dress" the governments that brought them - I am talking about the Samara - Venizelos Government and then about the SYRIZA Government, which did not fight them for your own aid - the quality mask, they have brought two regulations: a lower rate of construction and an obligation of large size, two hundred fifty acres - if I remember correctly, they had started with even greater quality - so that they could be implemented. You take this mask off, you officially equate them with hotels - so it leaves the meaning that they are investments in quality - you increase the building factor far away and you also allow them to build even in fifty acres. In order not to displease hotel owners, however, do you allow hotels to be built on all four acres? Really, Minister, how do you justify this? Your Undersecretary asked him three times. He never answered it. That's why I'm asking you. How do you justify that you allow hotels to be built in four acres, as you allow each citizen to build his private home? Let's move on. Electronic building ID. It will not lose the license to practice a profession by the engineer who falsely testifies and declares false evidence. Really? Only the TEI, by internal procedures, will refer him to the internal disciplinary body of the TEI, not the state, but the TEI. Really? Explain why. You haven't said a single word about it. What for? Will you also explain why you allow the data centers in the Nature Conservation Zone, in the Habitats and Species Conservation Zone, in the Sustainable Natural Resources Management Zone? Truly, in these areas, something had been rampant without officially answering the Step, your State Secretary, saying: "But there are also other uses there. If so many uses are foreseen, why not provide for them?' They are provided for exceptional uses, in order to serve the citizens of local communities, which are in the protected areas and to continue the normality of life there, in order not to penalise citizens from the fact that they are in protected areas, but to have the positive effects of the local economy and its positive economics, which are created precisely because they are in a diamond for our lives, for our nature and for our tourism, called 'protected areas'. The data centers will be set up by a resident in the neighboring village? What exactly are you going to do? Are we destroying the protection of these areas too? Marine spatial planning: Discussed too much. You have tried to mislead the House that the coastal area is not provided for in the European Maritime Planning Directive. You have been unravelled, and now we ask you: Aquaculture, coastal fishing, how are you going to regulate them, when they have facilities and are also affected by land space? How will you implement your commitment, Minister, to a climate clause in every legislation, when the main issue we have to face is the rise in water levels over the next few decades? We are the generation of people who live and are in Parliament right now. We'll see that rise of this level. We are not even talking about the generation of children born after 2000. They will experience this phenomenon in its full extent. How, then, will your maritime planning regulate, predict, address or adapt to this risk when the flooding coastal areas are excluded? As far as SYRIZA is concerned, we are continuing a little debate we have had in committee. I can't figure out if you're against the off-site construction. You say that you want to abolish the non-project construction and yet you did not bring a horizontal regulation during your administration that abolishes it or abolishes any part of it, even the derogations that the Ministry says here that it wants to abolish and, in practice, will lead to an increase in construction. You say you brought the local spatial plans, etc.. But that is where the derogations are to be abolished. No out-of-project construction is allowed. I think society requires a clear line from you too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u52	... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u53	I will answer you very thoroughly - I do not know who asked it - at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u54	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u55	Sure, I'll tell you. But, Mr President of the Committee on Production and Trade, you know very well that I have been placed on several occasions in my three speeches on this subject. You're talking about 5% of the newly built tax in the offline area. Really, will it apply to hotels and complex tourist accommodations? Will it apply to them? Where will the resources go? You have told us so far that they will go to the Green Fund. I asked you several times: Do you promise that these resources will be directed towards building the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u56	Compensatory actions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u57	Compensatory actions are nothing, Mr. Undersecretary. Compensatory actions mean nothing. We want preventive action. Compensation is such a general concept that could mean reafforestation in some mountain. That's not clear. Make it clear. As far as derogations are concerned and as far as only 2% of the space is concerned, it is also a funny argument that we have heard here more than misleadingly than this House. 2% of the area is the derogations to the non-project construction, that is to say building permits coming out of farms below four acres? You said that only 2% are licenses, and that's all this is about. These are the permits when citizens could build less than four acres and more than four acres equally. At a time when they are forced to make building permits to sell to build these land within two to six years, they will obviously exceed the total number of building permits. For the City Hall of Petroupoli, we really all know that Petroupoli needs a town hall. He's currently renting a building in a building. It's not a picture of a modern municipality. Obviously, it has to be done and there has to be state aid for this city hall. But it is not possible to place this town hall in a forest and centre - a wildlife sanctuary. It's not possible to violate every law, what do we do? There are some laws in this state. We can't destroy them all. We had the Prime Minister himself the other day. We had the Prime Minister with his wife on a bike and a motorcycle in the area of the managing body of Parnitha, in the woodland, when it is explicitly forbidden. And obviously no one can apply our law - because you obviously do not respect it, so it is not yours - because you have not given the workers of management bodies powers. You have taken care to abolish management bodies. And it is unclear whether people will be re-entered and who will be the ones to be re-occupied. And now we understand why you want the laws not to apply to protected areas. For the wildlife protection centres you called, you told us that you would finally fix the title and make wildlife care centres. I did not see that remedial provision, the legal system. You also did not make it clear, Mr Secretary, and I ask you, Mr Secretary, to do so - if they will actually be allowed to enter areas outside the housing zone, because these are activities which must be in a more natural environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u58	We talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u59	You said it in your word. When you tabled the amendment, you did not say so. And because I don't know if what you described is true, I want you to commit yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u61	Article 132 provides in Zone D of the Mount Athos recreation, children's recreation, sport, free green, cultural events. Excellent, Minister, really excellent. We are truly congratulating you and we support you. It is the same zone that is the Gender HYTA, the same zone that surrounds the Gender HYTA. We invite you to close the Gender HYTA and to do just recreation, sport, cultural events, etc., but close the Gender HYTA at last. A little review before I close. From New Democracy alone Stefanos Manos had made some thoughts, attempts to unplanned construction. Antonis Tritsis is coming in 1982. In 1983, however, it goes away as in its great effort to implement its own law and law of plagiarization, Law No. 1337, to clean up in a zone of five hundred meters off the coast of the penthouses and all obstacles preventing citizens from having access to beaches, in fact losing his head, losing his place. If he had stayed in his place, today we would not be talking about out-of-plan construction, arbitrary or even many other things. In 2009-2010, PASOK is elected with an agenda for the environment, and all it does is bring the limitation of the off-planning project. I conclude with NATURA. A huge opportunity is still lost. SYRIZA does nothing but promotes the plans that limit the derogations, but not the out-of-project construction in practice. And we have the government today, which says that it will abolish the derogations by a six-year suspension that will lead to greater construction. We call for the immediate abolition of the off-site construction of large tourist complexes, tourist villages, complex tourist accommodation. We are asking for a vote to be taken directly on this bill and we are calling for it to be the answer to you, Mr President of the Committee on Production and Trade - yes, to apply all the provisions of the Council of State which is required by the State to implement to abolish the off-site construction project here and now. We are voting against the bill in principle and we will be very critical of our vote on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Arseni. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor. Until the seat is ready, we should organize the debate a little bit. Then, after the President, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will take the floor, Mr Loverdos, and every four or five Members who speak will speak, if he wishes. This can go back, but at least four to five Members, in view of the fact that they are many registered Members and we will have a debate next day. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin with a little mention to the Minister. I've known him in the House since 2007-2008-2009. He's a mild-blooded man, but you know what? He never listens to what you say. Whatever you say to him, he'll do what he wants. Whatever you ask him, he'll go and do what he thinks is right. My Minister, we've known each other since 2007-2008-2009. I have learned that in the committee you have been offered many things, that you have been asked so many questions, but you have never answered and you have never done anything that can be right. Somebody tell you, "do this" and do it. Unfortunately, it is a tactic of Mr Hatzidakis, politically in his view right. In my opinion it's wrong. Every minister and every government must listen, and especially after studying the proposals, reject them by argument or approve them, accepting that they are right. Unfortunately, it is a tactic of Mr Hatzidakis and many, of course, ministers, but there are also bright exceptions that the ministers are listening to. I'm gonna go to the bill a little quick. You know, we're a strange people. I don't know how many you've read Aristophane. If I'm not mistaken at "Horniths" he said that in Ilissos the ancient Athenians built wherever they wanted. We've been doing this since antiquity. It's a reality. After 1923 in a country that had no Land register, a country that had no major infrastructure, was built wherever it wanted. And everyone was built where he wanted to know why the MP was attracting the citizen - that is the reality - with the "false eyes" and the police and a little bit of town planning and we did a country which was really unrealistic in its structure. And unreserved - and here is the problem - and not human beings. Inhuman cities. I won't talk about the coastal areas. I've met Halkidiki where since I was a little kid, I've been to Kallikratia. Everyone was building wherever he wanted, arbitrarily. That is what the government is dealing with today. It's a gordian bond. Mr Hatzidakis and no Minister can solve him if universally all parties do not agree that a solution needs to be found. The result of poor construction was Matty, the tragedy that Greece suffered with the dead. They had no routes, no escape exit, no entrance and exit. That's how many areas are. You know, I imagined this bill would solve these problems, but unfortunately it does not solve the problems. The proof that no party, no government has solved these problems is that each government brings a bill. That means the previous government didn't solve it. The New Democracy from 2007 to 2012 had brought similar bills, arbitrary arrangements, four acres, twelve acres, six acres. That means we're not doing our job well. Citizens are hostages because of the lack of proper implementation, not of laws, but of logic. We're doing laws, but they're inappropriate. You're talking about maritime planning. It is excellent and I fully agree with you. I will talk to you about tourism, aquaculture, shipping, etc. Mr. Hatzidakis, I'll tell you something very simple. I would really believe you if you were right. I would think the government is really interested in fishing. You could make fishing zones. How do you talk about development in fisheries and aquaculture, when our country does not have fishing zones and next year ends in March the most famous agreement of the European Union on the proclamation of fishing zones on the islands? But you don't make fishing zones because you're afraid of the Turks. You can say there's a Turk and we're afraid to make fishing zones. The Turks go in and do whatever they want. So, you see that this logic of "alcard law, without really seeing the problem in the face" creates problems. I won't talk about AOZ. You're blackmailing the land owners outside of the plan to issue a licence within two years. Greece has been through a crisis that lasted ten years. The income of the Greek citizens has been shattered. The Gross National Product fell. We have a crisis of nine months because of the coronary, and the abrupt of economic data will find it before us after the coronary, because it will eventually end this story. You tell Greek "run over the next two years, find the 15,000, 20,000 that you need to build a house and get a license". I don't know what that makes sense, Minister. I don't understand it. I don't understand anything well, do I? I'm starting to think a little backwards - you know, I'm a bit of a backward thinking - because your study "smells" some people, who act as hyenas, who are rushing to get people's land or people's estates. I, too, would expect when you bring me such a bill that you would have solved the matter. Have you been to town, my Minister? It's a terrible situation. Stacks, envelopes thrown from here and there, looking for the file of these, "ladders" the engineer, "ladder" the city road. Don't you know that? You know them, and I know you know them, Minister. You want us to make an incision in the towns. I'll tell you differently. It is not public in nature that this story, there should also be a privatization criterion, independent offices which will be supervised and controlled by the Government, the Minister or certain bodies, in order to speed up the process, to vote on these statutes. We're living in the 1930-1940 season now here. I'm saying this because I see you always start from the penthouse to build the building. You need to start at the base. The basis is town planning. I will give you an example. If I were a government, if the Greek Solution were to become a government - it will be because of the mistakes you and the others make, because you do not learn from your mistakes and repeat them - we would ask you for tax control of all the towns and their 'outside'. There to see how many rich citymen there are. Where did they get the money? We'd ask for tax control, too, to know what's going on. But no one did it because you don't dare. Nobody dares to check. All Greek citizens know that. If I don't "walk" my town-ship through my mechanic, I won't do my job. That's how they all got dissatisfied. Knock yourself out of corruption. But when the head of the city is a party official of the New Democracy or SYRIZA or PASOK or the Greek Solution - will I - where do you draw his ear? He brings me a thousand owls from behind. I mean the votes by 'worms'. I'm just saying it. I do not want to refer to e-mail. It's ten years institutionalised and you haven't implemented it, it's never been done. Also, Minister, if we really wanted to solve the problem, a committee of Parliament had to leave and go to all the coastal areas in Athens, Thessaloniki, Halkidiki to see the problem in the face. It rains a little and floods all the coastal areas across Halkidiki or across Athens. That's because they built everywhere and the torrents don't exist. I told you, Minister, what Aristophanes was saying. I remind you that Aristophanes said that the ancient Greeks were building in Ilissos, where they wanted, in the bed, on the bed. We're the same! But when there are draconian laws and applicable laws, they do not. If I'm not mistaken, you said that, Minister, you'd bring down the arbitrary. Have you broken the arbitrary down in Matty? Have you demolished anything? You didn't tear anything down, you only went to Halkidiki and smashed a bar and left. I therefore tell you that this is why we are not being believed as a political system. I'm not doing it in a bad mood, I'm doing it from a sense of penitentiary to learn from our mistakes. I would now like, because you are here as Minister, from the top ministers, you are also Vice-President - in any case, I do not remember exactly what you are, you have a special capacity - to say this: the problems of the economy will start after the coronary. We have a new red loan batch. It's 60 billion new red loans. It is 36% of all loans in Greece, the new red loans. The corresponding Eurozone is just 2.6%. It is necessary, Minister, if the Prime Minister really wants to give a solution to the problem, a generous deletion of private debts. There's no other way. I am surprised by the Members of the New Democracy that their Government and SYRIZA have given the various loans to fund, and they take them with 2.5%. Why not take it with 5% or 6% to make the state money, but pay the citizen too? Why are you doing this? If the Government's view - we have heard it from Mr Villardo - is the continuing invoking of the Troika, that we are carrying out orders of the Troika, then resign and bring the troika and Merkel to us here to rule. That is, if we do the self-evident thing - because we will have a profit, we will not sell in the funds with 2.5%, with 7%, with 8% in the private sector - the state will win, the private sector will win, Greece will win and the houses will stay here. I don't understand all this. I repeat, in order to see how much you have to legislate: Minister, there is the law of the Ministry of Finance that, in my tax declaration, I write 30% compulsory card receipts. Isn't that what he says? That's the law. But the market doesn't work. For ten months the market is closed. Why don't you suspend the measure? I'm just telling you little things. You're not market people. I'm obliged to pay 30% of my bills. Mr. Villardo, isn't it? Since the market is not working, why should this 30% exist? Where am I going to buy from? From the bar of the neighborhood where you closed it? It must be suspended. I told the Minister, but he hasn't. That's my problem. He doesn't. With closed store cards? Don't tell me you're all ordering online. Everyone ordering e-shop? I can't. My grandfather can't. My father can't. My father in the village doesn't know. You're barely gonna make him do this? Don't tell me such things. You're doing good work on technology. My generation, too, is working on it. The younger generations, however, the 60 - year - old, the seventy - year - old, the eighty - year - old, do not know. Do you obligate him to do that? I'm telling you, some things don't work out. I'd also like to ask if we have a North Helladic here. Do we have anyone from Thessaloniki? We don't have one. Mr. Abdelas is from our party. I'm looking for New Democracy. The Children's Village at Pelion is in danger with a padlock. There are no food, heating for children and EUR 564 million in the budget - there are records - going to illegal immigrants. We already sent three whole trucks this morning. We'll send out more. But the Government of the Children's SOS Village - your wife, if I'm not mistaken, has something to do with charity and she knows about it, I guess - she can see it a little, because the SOS Children's Village in Northern Greece is doing a job. The kids aren't warmed up. Where do we live? What's that thing? Isn't there a little charity, a little solidarity? We run on structures to save illegal immigrants, give them benefits, give them power, homes. The kids, the psychos, what's going on? Minister, I'll be a little sad, but that's all right. I am annoyed by New Democracy because it had a former Prime Minister who spoke about "pimps" in here - he paid dearly - Kostas Karamanlis and you bring new "pimps" and you make new Boboles. I'm sorry to say that. You and your government are doing this. The new Bobola's name is Mytilene. There is nothing that has not been taken: Energy, roads, wind turbines, photovoltaics. State-owned businessmen. Everything that's moving is a Mytilene. I've seen the man three times in my life in different places, like airports. I don't have anything with him. But I do not understand that a government with a former Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, who spoke about "pimps" and their fall in Greece, is coming here today and you are building the Mytilene and no one talks in here. I already hear that "Actio-Ambracia" took this project again. Didn't he take it? Mytiline. Why, you guys? Will the Mytilian take all the works? And don't tell me he's making better offers because I have evidence that doesn't confirm you, Minister. I would like to give an example: look at how it is done 'photographics', Mr Colleague, all the things that are being done. I spoke to Mr Polakis before. In the World Health Organisation, the Government says: "We will take specific tests, which are listed in the World Health Organisation". One, we're talking about nice "photography", "cadro", as if he'd say "take these" is a company, a monopoly. I tell you things that really bother me and bother me. And it's a government that honestly has a reformer Prime Minister, so at least he said he was a reformer, that he wanted to make a final state and that I appreciated, because he was young with a different person. And he comes in and has double my books, and he doesn't admit it. Go ahead, at least the mayor admitted it here in the past. Double books on ETA! Recording of cases for the coronary, two different systems, one in the IDU and the other in the EAFRD! You gave the two-month HICP contract EUR 184,000 to OTE-Byte, didn't you? The EGE shall sign on 1 June, before the development of the IRI system is completed, a contract of EUR 800,000 with the company ‘MAINSYS O.E.’. That is to say, it is clearly proven on the basis of the documents I have before me - I will submit them in the Minutes, here are all the conventions - that you are contributors, not you Members, who have done so. They're grifters, real grifters, 800 grand. It's not much - you'll say - for a big company, but 800 grand took it directly. There's the scam! Second scam: Rapid Tests Scandal, "photographic" four-day express competition. Four days! Margin only three days for the delivery of millions of tests. It's like Velopoulos says: "Come here, sir, look, next week I bring you a law, for three days it'll be, go, get it, get it from now, get it in storage, set up, as soon as I get the law, go and give it." That's what you did. That's what the New Democracy MPs do and pay it in here. They're accountable for the crooks. That's a crook! And you paid with a hat on an intermediator. ABBOTT test, but ABBOTT, has a subsidiary in Greece. Isn't that right, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u64	You're stealing my speech, I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u65	It's not my fault, I had it before, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u66	The debates are prohibited, Mr President. Besides, you don't need verdicts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u67	They are serious complaints, Association of Medicines and Biotechnological Products denounces them. Are we talking about raw deception and fraud of the Greeks and you MPs will apologize for the crimes of the crooks or the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u68	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr. Loverdos, the way I say it is. It's a waste of millions of euros! Who was favoured? I'll tell you now, Minister. Superintendent of "SIEMENS"! He was a stem and in 2008, Stratos Greymanellis! So you know what your government is, where you're willing to-- don't you? - Some serve corruption, but inadvertently the MPs become the bridges of corruption, inadvertently, and then we go out on the road and the rest of us spit, as if it were the New Democracy MP's fault for what's going on. Shame, shame! And I won't talk about the vaccines. I will say this, however, to be serious at some point: the Prime Minister of the country comes out without care and says that the restaurants and bars will be closed until all Greeks are vaccinated. Wait, you guys, to the businessman who owns a shop, you say, "I close your shop, because that's what I want, for health, for the pandemic," I get it. Will he pay electricity? Is he going to pay municipal fees? Is he gonna pay HICPIAL? Will he pay taxes? Will he pay cars, traffic charges, security? He'll pay! So find a way to say 'I'm closing the shop for you, but you won't pay for it!' That's not what you're doing. Restaurants, bars, movies, stadiums. That's what you're saying. Do you understand what you're doing? You kill the economy, we kill the economy, and you tell them that the citizens who want to go later to the bar, the restaurant, the fish tavern, if they don't do the vaccine, they won't be able to go, that is, with the gun to his head, you tell the Greeks, "or you'll be imprisoned, locked, if you don't do the vaccine, or you'll get the vaccine and you'll be released." Rejoice in this democracy! The optional you make it mandatory. That's the problem with each government, baptizing the fish meat, and that bothers me. Also, I'll say it straight away: Do you know how many workers are in the focus? Six hundred thousand families eat bread from the focus. These people have been murdered financially. Hotel clerks, these people still expect a piece of bread to eat, go to their family. Don't you understand that? You take measures - and you do well - for the pandemic, you did the crimes you committed with the wrong algorithm, with double books, with the precursor of Lockdown you opened the border without control from northern Greece. We have now reached a risk with third lockdown. I told the Prime Minister here and he didn't deny it. You'll open up for a while and then again it'll be the citizens' fault and you'll make third lockdown. That's for granted. Yes, but there is no care and care for the financial results - which are unpleasant - of entrepreneurs and businesses, say 'yes, you guys have lost something'. I have two stores in Athens, Thessaloniki. The current is normally paid, but it's closed. The current, Mr. Comrade, I'm paying for it. Municipal fees we pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u70	Reimbursement!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u71	It's not like that, sir! Which returner, my lord. Do you know what I've lost? Do you know what the businessman has lost? Because you're a lawyer? I have five hundred workers, sir, what are you telling me? What's coming back? Will you give me 700,000 a month? Will you give me 700 grand to pay insurance and wages? You'll give me a thousand and go! Please, too! That's what you do, and unfortunately you're on your own. Expose, you are heard by the businessman who has voted for you now. 'You will get a returner!'. Not to tell you what you're getting. Don't tell you what you get! Sit down and look for it. Because you haven't looked into it. As a lawyer, he can, as a government lawyer and an attorney.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u72	I've looked into it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Stamenitis, don't interrupt! Finish, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u74	And for what I'm telling you, then, I'm telling you names, I'm not telling you what I want. Just stuff. Well, I'll say back then. Four months, ten cars in my company closed, you forbid them from running. Ten cars! Traffic and security fees, why should I pay? Do I have a returner? Oh, no! So don't say anything. Ten cars are money, put them down. Traffic and security, that's all. Leave the rest. They're corporate. Let's get to the bottom of it, and I'm closing here. The biggest problem, Mr President, will be another one, that will be solved. It can be solved, make an emergency plan for the New Democracy and the Government and help businessmen. We have doctors here. These are the psychological problems that will arise from now on. The "10306" psychosocial support line from April to today received about a hundred thousand people's calls for psychosocial problems. Domestic violence is beginning to grow, the frictions are beginning in the families. We will also have problems and a result which makes me - frankly, I say this - a feeling of isolation 60% of the Greeks, a feeling of insecurity, anxiety and a fear of 78%. It's the psychiatric corporation. So we kill the soul and the feelings of the Greeks, we murder them. Without a smile, we wear the mask, we don't smile, we don't look, we don't see each other, we don't communicate, we don't have what we call "human interpersonal relationship", father and child, grandparent and grandchildren are isolated. These are the problems. The rest we can solve, fight all the time you want, but these consequences will be found in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u75	In conclusion, Mr President, you have gone in twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President, just a minute. Now we're talking about society, we're not talking about the government. Television also creates other problems for children. We've got the results from Pisa University that say that those kids who do teletext complain about the waist, about eye addiction, are gradually showing symptoms of clinical depression. That is what we will find in front of us, ladies and gentlemen. The rest of you have said that, with or without evil or pain, we will solve them, or we will try to solve them. These won't be solved. I am also saddened and say it - we have a judge, top judge in the past, Mr Athanasios here - a decision of the S.H.E. that whatever children will not be vaccinated will be expelled from the schools. That's not democracy. I'll say it straight away. This, unfortunately, is called authoritarianism. It's called racism. That is what is said - I shall say directly - isolation from those who have another viewpoint. I am not against the vaccine - because I hear a number of things in here - but I am against imposing the vaccines on anyone who can disagree in the context of democracy. Why? Because when the University of Stanford comes out and says that the virus is mutating, that means the vaccine that was found a month ago, two months ago, three months ago for a certain virus, it's a matter. Is that right? Well, the other doctor hits his head, that's all right. I hope you're not making no 'NOVARTIS' recipes yourself. Let's go down. So I say to be serious... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Chiodra said so, gentlemen. Why are you doing this? Are you questioning Chiodra? He said we've got an increase in symptoms due to a mutation of the virus. Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, do not have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u78	But I can't see every weird guy making any meanings underneath me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u79	You've reached twenty-two minutes. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u80	Anyway, you've all learned a story and said what you want. Chiodra said it, Linu said it, your people say it. But I told you, the way you're doing it, it's going to be a boomerang. You may be on the main stream of everything some say, but I'll tell you something more: You'll be in here for a while, as New Democracy goes with these options. Why don't you do what Singapore did? Singapore has how many victims it has, you know? Let me tell you - and I close here, Mr President - that everyone will not say what they want in here. It's minimal. He's got two hundred ten victims. Why? Because he's been doing a test since the beginning. At first, however, Chiodra said they don't need the tests. It doesn't fit the coronary in school, then it's stuck in school. We forgot about that, I think. To close, I say this. Because there's a lot of talk in here, like you're going, I'm going to have to read a letter just. The results for Singapore are here. I'll leave it in the Minutes. I was wrong, there are twenty-nine dead and fifty-eight thousand cases. Do you see them? They are the results of the World Health Organisation. And that's because, with the continuous tests, he was straightforward saving the problem, which you didn't do. You made mistakes. Don't go on. I'm reading a letter and I'm closing here. You have all received it in your e-mail of Parliament and you are sensitive to the vaccine! He says: "Mr. Members, I have head cancer, sugar, and I do insulin, a disability of 84%. I went through the CSR committee and got me out of the social invoice. What am I supposed to do? Should I die or freeze the insulin on the roof?" Mr. George's phone is here. I will give it to you, Mr Colleague, for you, as a government MP, because you are sensitive to vaccines, to see what you are going to do here. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, the Minister has asked for the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u82	The rest will then be discussed, Mr President. I want to deal with two issues. First of all, on the issue of the Children's Village in Filipro. I have been following this and any negative developments in recent years. Last year I would like to remind you that by our own intervention - my own intervention - the ELPEs were given free heating oil in the Children's Village. I have reason to believe that the same will happen this year. I say this because it's a matter that I know really is of interest to Thessaloniki. The second issue has to do with the current. There's a triple system to protect the weak. Its first component is the social invoice, the COT. The second is the regulation for vulnerable people, introduced by SYRIZA, and we continue with it, with money from the budget, and the third is the Catholic Service, the Last Refugee Service for all those who cannot. In Greece such a service is provided by PPC as the largest supplier. Therefore, there is overall coverage. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I understand there are complaints, because mistakes may also be made. There is no doubt that there may be errors in eight million connections. In many cases, however, I have seen that complaints come from strategic misappropriators, who change their providers, making the so-called 'energy tourism' so that they are treated favourably against the vast majority, which is still in spite of difficulties in paying. Therefore, yes, we must look at the weak, but look at the really weak, and not finally adopt tricks, tricks of different kinds, which are harm not only PPC and other suppliers, but also at the same time cause all the consistent ones who continue to pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u83	We continue the process and I give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, because what I have to say is not urgent, go to the list and after seven, eight speakers, I will speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u85	I had this briefing. I had to report it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u86	But we want to know when the government will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u87	That's not my business. The government will speak when it decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u88	Yes, but excuse me, because we have a special role as Parliamentary Representatives, do we want to know if he will speak today, will he speak tomorrow, in between the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u89	The government hears that and will do so accordingly. It's her thing. Now we're on the list. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Economou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by making a reference to a large philhellion who left last night, the former President of the French Republic Valerie Ziskar d'Esten, a proven friend of the country. Most people know his close relationship with the late nation ruler, Konstantinos Karamanlis, and many others know his help and support in our country's effort to join the European family. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the modernisation of town and country planning is an important step forward and environmental protection and strengthening the value of property and, of course, sustainable development. It includes arrangements that speed up the preparation of local town planning projects, which, together with the completion of the Land register and the suspension of forest maps, will change our lives in terms of making use of public space and of our property. In particular, this government dares to do something that everyone agreed for years as a necessity, but no one ever attempted to deal with it with a coherent and comprehensive plan. What do you mean? The drastic limitation of the non-building project, along with the implementation of an extensive programme to organise spatial planning in this area, namely the preparation of local urban projects. They are planned to be completed by 2028, and 80% of them by 2026, since their studies will be financed by the Recovery Fund, which also constitutes a restrictive condition for their completion by then. I would like to dwell on this, in other words, the fact that our government, the relevant ministry, has made sure that it is financed for the necessary studies, in a way that is simple and functional, contrary to what we have seen in the past, the handling of the previous government which is a monument and a handful of misery, but also a deposit of communicational impression at the expense of the substance. These necessary resources have now been provided, both from the Recovery Fund of 80%, and from the European Investment Bank of 20%. Secondly, a common language is created between spatial planning, environmental policy and economics, so that citizens and investors know what they can build and avoid endless delays and, above all, very painful surprises. Thirdly, through the mechanism of the Digital Bank of Earth, the offer and acceptance of the building coefficient will be made transparent, without the possibility of legalising the arbitrary indirectly and thus a double major benefit arises, both the owners of the retainers will be able to benefit from the transfer of a building factor, but also the municipalities will be able to make better and more effective use of these buildings, which in most cases are located in central and contagious parts of their territory. It ends the hostage of owners who have committed their property for years in the context of rhetorical expropriations, but nothing is going on. There are issues of urban legislation, where there is multiplicity, bureaucracy, delays and unnecessary costs. Finally, the extension given to the register is also important. But here I would like, Minister and Minister, to point out something. There are cases throughout the country, which your government and your Ministry must, as far as the register is concerned, see as a whole in relation to the responsibilities of other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Finance. I'm referring to a case involving my place. It's the notorious red plot case in Malesina. There before 1900 by Royal Decree they were granted land to build, build houses, take loans, pay taxes, but their properties today do not belong to them, so that they cannot register them in the Land register. I have raised this issue repeatedly in parliamentary control, the Ministry of Finance has committed itself to bringing in a provision regulating this thing - it is not trespassers obviously - but you realise that if it is not settled they will not be able to take the next step, to declare their property in the register. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the environment has been a victim of the way in which the country has developed, but also of the timeless weaknesses of the Greek state. What created this situation? This situation, let us not be foolish, created traditions throughout the country, which make their change unpopular, unfortunately unpopular and ultimately unpopular, resulting in a constant burden on the environment and its degradation, but also the hostage of the citizens and the emergence and expansion of customer relations and the establishment of a belief that economic development and environmental protection cannot go together in this area. For our government, it is a clear choice to leave behind and this procrastination, but also these outdated perceptions. I would like to say that this philosophy is horizontally characterised by any legislative initiative by the Government and the Ministry in question. The policy for NATURA areas, the policy to facilitate authorisations in the RES, for disposable plastics, for electromobility, for recycling for waste, for reafforestation, for saving at home, for forecasts for the energy upgrading of buildings, for degreasing and for supporting policy through the Transfer Fund, these and so many others constitute an integrated reorientation plan for the Greek economy in an environmentally-friendly development model, taking advantage of our innovation and natural resources. In the face of this plan, the Qualified Opposition formulates every time an obsessed, awkward and awkward speech. It recycles each time charges for so-called photographic services, through legislative initiatives, but never the corresponding documentation. It gives us every time, flirting with the boundaries of graphics, extreme characterizations of environmental drugs and other relevant ones. She tries to create conditions of dissatisfaction and contempt between private scientists, who will help the state and service actors, and of course, she insists on forgetting, overcoming its action and inaction as government in these matters in the previous period. For the same reason, we have also heard about this bill, a bill setting order in the off-project construction, which promotes organised business development, and that is another draft law that creates for society, the environment and entrepreneurship conditions of security, legality, accountability and transparency, and that is why we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I want to now call SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Paulo Paulakis, for seven minutes. Please prepare a health check because Mr. Paulakis is a doctor! Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to ask for your tolerance, because I will also support an amendment. Mr. Hatzidakis, patriot, Mr. Economou, I directly blame you for doing two things: firstly, I denounce that you are doing - and I will prove it - the greatest redistribution of real estate against small and medium-sized owners, against small and medium-sized estate funds, big-workers, large-scale and large-scale, air-trafficers of real estate and secondly, I will prove it, Mr. Economou, do not move your head, I also have a gift at the end - you make a series of "photographic services" and with the amendment you bring for the benefit of the five, ten thousand best-sizes of the Mitsotakis family in Greece, whom you are finally serving. Let's go to the beginning. What did you do about the environment and construction? You abolished the spatial data by removing the address, you stopped the work of forest maps, you left windows on environmental licensing, you froze the local spatial plans, all the things that Socrates Famelos, SYRIZA, had gone through the previous three, four years, which had not gone on fifty years. You have stopped all of this and you are currently coming with this bill to give the gift shot to thousands of small and medium-sized owners, who, based on the clientele arrangements of the previous social contract, bought in many areas of the country, tourist or non-smoking, a plot with an exact price, which was built up, to give it to their children to build up later, to have an income, and at the moment you make it either field or pasture, or to plant potatoes or sell it. I'm just saying that. Who will be able, over the next six months, to take this crisis and with this poorness, Mr Hatzidakis, to take a leave and build? Essentially abolish off-site construction. Based on the laws existing to date, these plots were built and had a value. That is what you do with Articles 31 and 32. At the same time as you do this, you leave it free in the name of environmental protection, because they build at a factor of 0,2. But if one buys half price and beer despite these plots, which will fall value based on this arrangement, and raises a hundred, two hundred acres, it can build up with 0.5. Where is environmental protection and private building? Freelance all large-scale organized reception plans for large funds are being developed, such as hotels in a thousand rooms with casino and golf rooms, and you call them "small-scale mixed tourist accommodations" - listen, small-scale! - concerning areas from fifty to a hundred acres - small-scale! - with a builder of 0.12 to 0,15 - where there will also be buildings from the hotel, but after you make mixed use of them there will also be houses - abolishing the entire building regime that exists today, so also selling the houses and serving - of course - these big ones, who will build on an area of fifteen, eighteen thousand square meters, and six to seven thousand will make them homes, free the hotel and sell houses because the others will not be able to build. You remove from others the right to be able to build. Now, because I am not speaking in general and you said before, Mr Economou, please listen to me, and I am linking it to the amendment that you have brought at the last minute, Mr Economou. I'll talk about our area, Mr. Hatzidakis, you know it. In Marathi - in the known Marathi, the Prime Minister is also swimming there - is there a owner named Vassilis and Lebidakis who bought more than a hundred, hundred and fifty acres and prepared - how did he know? - a mixed-use court, with hotel and houses, without a person and a recognised road that you remove this forecast now. Is there or isn't there? Secondly, in the Kolymbari area in Kissamos - you are swinging, Mr. Economou, you have been robbed! - Is there another investor named Leptos who's done the same thing? Has he bought such an area and he wants mixed tourist accommodation, a hotel and residence? Yes or no? Aren't they? Where did they know it and prepare permits, and so far there has been no leave for a hotel and housing and without a person on the road without such a legal status? Where did they know? They knew you were bringing the bill, right? And that is why, Mr Economou, you are doing this, bringing an amendment and you are the country's main townmaster and peasant. If that's possible! You build a Central Building Agency below you, which takes over, says, to give the building permits in connection with construction work made in the context of strategic investments or investments financed in whole or in part from European resources, at least 500,000 euros or for buildings over three thousand squares, that is, for all hotels from now on you will grant the building permit. That is why, Mr Economou, I took you and a seal to seal it - so you humiliate the ministerial office - the building permits you will get tomorrow, the day after tomorrow from your office. Because that thing's a prick! It's the definition of interacting! It is the definition of the cooperation of political leadership with organized interests, because that is what you are doing and you must be ashamed of! Listen. I'll talk a little more politically, Mr. Hatzidakis, because we're together with the OSH. You break up your social alliance with a large part of medium-sized, medium-sized layers that you have claimed with the Mitsotakis Government to find the instability of their development and their freedom of movement. You steal their property and give it a gift to ten, fifteen, twenty friends of yours. That's what you do with this thing. You will suffer with this bill - make your mask, you have fallen, Mr. Economou, rather from your stress - everything that you have suffered with ENPIA, because it is challenging to serve the interests that this includes. I can talk about too many other things, but it is not enough time and I thank you for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u93	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u94	Yeah, yeah, I know. I said it quickly, I wanted to say more. I'm short. I shall state, firstly, the decision of the CTA of Crete, which condemns these regulations, which you are doing in relation to small property, and asks you to change them. I will present a request to you by Mr Papaderaki, the Vice-President of Entrepreneurship of the Region of Crete, where you who will bring growth by abolishing - take this away - you do not give the opportunity to renew a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been built on high-quality land because the ministerial decisions have not been taken and you are actually stopping any investment. Cancel the removal of the device, you won't be able to make anything and we're talking about the area of Agia. Thirdly, I'll testify for the Ministry of Health. Listen. Heroes don't just want applause. Workers other than roses and applause want bread.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u95	That's it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u96	Health scientists have tabled an amendment with a general number of 624 and a special 65 to abolish the 9% cap as a limit on the remuneration of additional newspapers. Health workers in hospitals this year because of the coronary make much more on-call than they have done so far. We were paying the additives, they are now going beyond them and the additives, because some of them are leaving, and some of them are getting sick, and this must be abolished in order to pay their newspapers. And they have to be paid, the fast bear doesn't dance. And sick and fasting!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u97	Finish because you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u98	In short, your bill does this thing. I spoke very specifically. In fact, this amendment that you are bringing is a shameful one. You're going to be the country's main city manager, so all the businessmen will come to bow to your ministry to put the license stamp on them. That's a disgrace! Take the amendment back. Change the arrangement for the construction plan. And you need to know something. We are the largest defenders of the environment, the largest defenders! Mr. Famelos has done a great job at the Ministry. You stopped everything, but you know that when we come back what you're doing today, we'll change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u99	Mr Athanasios Ljupi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Deputy Minister, extremely ambitious and bold of the bill, which drastically changes the country's spatial and urban map. Proceed to a very good legislature, moving into three main axes. The first is environmental protection. This includes arrangements with a green sign that seeks to structure and entrepreneurial activity. One of the major issues raised by today's bill is out of plan construction. Finally, a government dared to touch and give solutions to this serious issue which directly affects the overall image of our country and the natural environment. The plots above four acres are not affected by the changes, for those under four are given a long and reasonable period of time in order to make use of their owners. There is a specific provision for complex tourist accommodation in non-planned areas to have a higher rate of construction. Therefore, you are institutionalised reconstruction based both on the environment and on the development and support of entrepreneurship. The most important objective of the bill is to quickly complete the necessary local town planning projects throughout the territory. This is a huge task, which will be completed with money both from the Recovery Fund and the European Investment Bank. Priority is given to tourist and island areas, where local town planning plans will be completed by 2023. Immediately after 2028 the whole territory will be covered. It is a grand programme that requires proper organisation and cooperation between the services. I hope, Mr Ministers, that solutions will be found in areas such as Pelion, where it has paralyzed all activities after the two decisions of the SGC. for the building and the boundaries of the settlements. The coordinator has a central role to play in this bill, as he is responsible for the preparation and implementation of urban planning programmes. The build-up factor is significantly reduced by 33% for individual industries, so as to protect the natural environment. At the same time it is increasing from 1,6 to 2 the construction factor in industries and crafts within business parks. A clear attempt is being made to motivate industrial activity to become more organised and better in terms of the environment. In the same environmental direction, the provision whereby buildings which are environmentally friendly is awarded a higher rate of construction is being initiated. A shallow and extremely useful measure is introduced to withdraw buildings or to withdraw floors from buildings in areas with an environmental burden. The second axis of the bill is the country's development perspective. There's something that simple, but it's so necessary. A single nomenclature for land uses is established so that all services can now use the same conditions. At the same time, each land use corresponds to a SAR. However, the most important thing for the optimal use of property is that each area can now have more than one special use. The new building regulation solves many years' problems, including the high delay in issuing building permits which clearly constituted a deterrent to investment. For cases where a pre-authorisation of the building permit is compulsory, the procedure shall be done entirely by electronic means from the single digital portal by a rapid and fully transparent procedure. For those authorisations that do not require prior authorisation, the certificate shall be issued automatically and shall be issued within 10 days of the electronic submission of the complete file. The third axis is to support ownership and strengthen policies with social awareness elements. This category also includes the arrangements for the transfer of the building coefficient that solves a chronic issue, mainly for owners of resident properties. On the basis of the decisions of the S.H.E. It is allowed to transfer the building factor, with specific criteria and exclusively through the Digital Earth Bank with an electronic, reliable and very transparent system. Limits enter into the hormonal expropriations. It is expressly stated that expropriation is withdrawn, without even an accreditation act, if 15 years have elapsed since the approval of the quarrying plan or five years after the ratification of the relevant act, and indeed only once the re-imposed rate of duty expropriation to the same property is allowed. Finally, regulation, not only of high symbolism - World Day for Disabled Persons today - but of substantial respect for the rights of disabled persons, it is the one that allows exceptionally the construction, except for rheumatism, ramp and socket to be public spaces accessible to HEIs. Reactions from counterpopulation do not concern the substance of the bill. It's not the substance that's bothering you. Who can disagree that anarchist structure must sometime stop? Who disagrees with a rapid, transparent procedure for issuing building permits? But what is bothering us is that we are talking about a real change in the way we deal with urban and spatial issues. The centre for the first time enters the broad use of technology and the perfectly clear procedures. Sustainable development is not just a question. It is a reality with a clear philosophical strategy that effectively protects the natural environment. Mr Ministers, I would like to say that it is extremely important for the regional plan of the Region of Thessaly, for the work of Acheloos, for the environmental, water supply, irrigation, energy, development, anti-military work. Many people say that if it had gone ahead, it would have mitigated the devastating consequences of the 'January'. Please, Minister, in the revision of the 21st SDLP, of the River Leather Management Plan to include the work of Acheloos. Because the previous government did not include it, resulting in the S.H.E.'s rejection decision. And the Messiah. Finally, for the first time decades, rules are being introduced, limits are being set, and there is planning on which image of our country we are envisioning and looking for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. I'd like to invite the Prime Minister of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u102	Today, 3 December, World Day for Disabled Persons, we must recall, government, political parties and society as a whole, for new policies that will bring people back to the centre, social cohesion policies that face the social inequalities and the particular problems of disabled people. Since 1981, with the foundation of the social state, the PASOK has also given support to people with disabilities who have until then been on the margins. We are proud of this policy. We are proud of the great offer of PASOK to the progress of post-population. We are proud of the democratic and institutional modernisation we have achieved, of the development, of the social inequalities and of the country's European path. We are proud of the governance of Andreas Papandreou, Kostas Simitis, but also of the period of Giorgos Papandreou and Evangelos Venizelos, who put forward the country and not the political benefit and the political cost. We made a choice to deal with derailment 2004-2009 and the crisis he caused, but passions of time, without accounting for what antimony, extremists, all wings were saying. We are proud today that, with our autonomous course and with the policy of Fofi Gennimata, we have a responsible political attitude, national and socially beneficial. In fact, in the midst of a pandemic, without prioritising the small-party exploitation of the government's failures, we support the choices and scientific views which are documented by the experts, the rules and all the protection measures to be taken, and at the same time we propose and claim support measures for people who are affected economically and socially. This is our responsible attitude. In this context, the immoral attitude and misplacement of the party of Greek Solution cannot be interpreted by its well-known anti-European attitude, but also by their right-wing right-wing political position. Obviously, an explanation is what he said in his revulsion of the reason that there was no derailment 2004-2009. A small acquittal contract, except those who today are trying to disprove it. The spatial and urban planning, which is the subject of the draft law we are discussing, must be carried out as seriously as possible by means of institutional procedures ensuring social and scientific dialogue. Why is that? Because spatial planning and urban planning are the basis for tomorrow. It is not just dealing with existing problems, it is the launching of economic and social progress. The pandemic and the climate crisis show that we need to strengthen, shield the environment. But at the same time, not to stop, but to shape those conditions that economic development will obey an anthropcentric progress. The bill refers to the off-project construction, culminating in the fact that there is legal and arbitrary existence. Instead of facing arbitrary construction outside the plan, it also abolishes legality! But at the same time, with this option, small owners' assets are being reappointed, many of which have been obtained with building assurances, according to the existing ones, from the labour and labour of people, micro-owners. Secondly, it is reversed, it is "stop" into legitimately launched investments. Even small changes in building factors overthrow investment projects, which are part of the development law or the NSRF. You are forbidden even to build peanuts in parcels. You only allow investments in financially powerful, who will be able to buy beer despite the small-owners' properties, after your bill has depreciated them. All this, instead of facing the arbitrary construction, will trigger her. We are proposing to link the regulation of out-of-build construction to the drafting of local town plans, which means organic linking, at least two to five years in transition - but not to a transitional institutional framework - to the existing ones, so that you do not overturn the ongoing procedures for issuing permits or implementing investment projects, and in any case that should be linked to the ratification of the urban plan to be drawn up. There are procedures. You will also modify Law 4412 so that these procedures can be predicted at certain intervals and the two periods can be pressed. A net period, therefore, without changes, with the current ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I would like some time. With regard to arbitrary buildings, an important issue is why you do not finally calculate the fines with the updated objective values that apply, below most cases. The second point is that while about a month ago the date for arbitrary settlement expired, you did not prolong it, despite the fact that there is a pandemic period and for all but that there is an extension. You come now and say that the right to prolong, to settle, I only give banks, funds and those who get the properties - houses from auctions and to decoy the heirs. That's what I think is absolutely unconstitutional. All citizens - owners without discrimination of sex, colour, religion, economic situation, must be given deadlines. You can't do that. As far as ELA is concerned, your ELA regulation, EMEMPAR, has caused a deficit. Whether it is 300 million or less - it has nothing to do with the pandemic - it has to be appreciated. You will come and bring in, as you prepared it, an arrangement to transfer the burden of the deficit to the small and medium-sized production of renewable energy sources. It's a regulation of violent concentration of RES in less hands. Obviously, they won't. They'll sell. Who are they gonna get? Those who have the financial potential. As far as energy communities are concerned, instead of upgrading and strengthening the institution of the energy communities, with your fragmentary arrangements you are even undermining their potential role. Please, Mr Minister, the institution and, in particular, the energy communities, involving bodies, self-government, regions, municipalities, businesses, households and citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u103	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u104	I'm done, Mr. President. It is very important that this whole framework should be discussed with institutional procedures. We're not standardists. The good legislature, which was the first bill you brought, is not a form of speech. It's a matter of fact. If we have good legislation, we will have better results for citizens, especially for urban and spatial planning. This is also evidenced by another element. My colleague, George Vlachos, tabled ten - twelve amendments on serious issues. This means that you have not even had any extravagant dialogue, not only social and indeed, from what I have seen, some of them are serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u105	It's understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u107	May I invite my colleague, Member of the New Democracy, George Vlalo to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today's speech by addressing a very big thank you from the heart of all of us, I believe in all our medical, nursing, administrative, assistant staff of public hospitals, who every day give the battle over themselves to counteract the pandemic and safeguard the lives of our fellow citizens. Thank you! I come to the bill, a very important bill, a very important initiative on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment. It is important because it really gives solutions to many issues. There are, of course, too many outstanding issues in the field of the environment. Not this bill but many others together could not give complete solutions. Therefore, the attempt to deal with the problems is obviously continuing. My initiative to table eleven amendments - I could table another twenty - is to help me, as far as possible, identify specific problems in their resolution. And you know a lot of these problems people face all over the country. They are not in the area, they are not narrow, they are not - if you like - what we say to serve closed, small societies, because these problems have indeed left the area of Attica more. I'm starting with the first one. Indeed, it is a good thing to try to act on business units in organised receptors. Indeed. But this can be done in a receptor, which starts from the beginning, which can program and organise properly. However, there are dozens of areas in Attica, which are facing enormous problems and which require the resolution of these areas. So if in these cases no one insists on the contribution of land to 15% and 20%, it's actually like saying to them, otherwise, 'you cannot be sanctified'. We therefore need to look at the possibilities which exist in each region both in the contribution to land and in the way in which they deposit the money. This money is, of course, theirs. They undertake the funding of studies and implementation, and the Ministry always has control over approving this study. So, what's best, what's right? Those who want to exalt their space, with an approved study, which they finance, should have the first reason. That is what I am saying with an amendment. In any other case, if we say that the situation continues as it is at present, industrial business areas are at risk too soon to move out of plan areas. I'm coming to something else now. Despite the possibility, Mr Minister, that our fellow citizens have had to regulate loose ends with arbitrary ones and despite the initiative taken by you to transfer some unfinished items from category 5 to category 4, they will indeed remain in trouble and will be many, they will be thousands. I, with my amendment, actually what am I saying? In summary, they may carry a build-up coefficient and settle these unfinished ones. We'll figure it out in front of us! Since the state has decided not to demolish over time, we will have to see the reality as hard as it is! Life has proven that whatever problem we go about it, the problem doesn't disappear, it's just growing up. I come to another point where I have again tabled an amendment on this subject. He was in the land fragmentation. With Law 1337, you know that partitions were banned. Many owners acquired millimeters on indivisible fields and arbitrary constructions were formed. The Government of New Democracy in the past with L.4315/2014 allowed the building to be settled in Law 4178/2013, since this law regulates arbitrary construction rather than property. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA government - which we heard so much earlier than Mr Polakis - did? Now tell me what the people who had solved the problems imagined? You had to go to self-determination first, make sure the fines from the town building were made and then go into the arrangement. We all knew how towns work. So I say today from the Step forward of the House: if we find a - literally - guaranteed fine from town planning to tell us. To see how useless this arrangement was. And we're coming up a little bit, what are we talking about? To go to what we have arranged for in times of Minister Tararas, to have the opportunity for people to come back and settle. Since we do not solve the property, as I have said, we are dealing with the problem of building itself. I'm on my way to a big deal. In the Dionysus region - you know that very well, Minister, Minister, and your colleagues all - there is a huge problem with the non-delimitation of the settlements, even before 1923. That's where the danger is? It's not that people can't organize their lives. It's not that they're afflicted with transfers. It's not that they have problems with their inheritances. It is a risk that tomorrow morning, once the forest maps, dwellings built in areas and in recognised settlements before or after 1923, will be found in forest areas. We have therefore tabled an amendment enabling these settlements to be demarcated, in order to avoid the worst, because once forest maps are posted - I do not want to exaggerate - the frustration of the world will be too great. I'm on my way to another topic. SYRIZA legislated in Law 4045 in Article 148(6) and allowed the extension of buildings and facilities on a adjacent plot, so long as you spoke of "photographies" - this plot the owner had acquired it until the publication of the law, i.e. on 3-11-2017. If this is not a photo, let us know what it is. So they brought in a setup to settle whoever he bought and whoever knew about it. Here's the proverb. Here is the proof of photography, not what has been heard, of saying names. Minister, with your legislative intervention - nothing else needs to be done - abolish this condition on the territory of the Community. He doesn't care if he's going to build and what he's going to build. He cares when he bought it. What do we do? Real estate, are we? That's what they did. Don't go on with it too. Let's set it up. You will tell me: 'What will it build?' As provided for by the law. I am saying this in the amendment. Nothing illegal. What is envisaged in each region and, indeed, conditional. I would like to say this very clearly in the amendment. I come to the derogations, to build the four acres. This 10% reduction, Minister, I really want to ask you to remove it. I think it makes no sense and I do not understand how it can help the environment. The citizens must not feel that they are our enemies and that the state is against them. I think that this reduction in the rate has practically no value, not only does it create bad impressions and gives the opportunity, if you like, sometimes to the opposition to claim for its own reasons some things. On this issue with the four acres - we have discussed it on several occasions - we say that there is derogating from the four acres of archery. I said that they should build what is currently in place, and I believe that a piece of legislation was made for 132, which had a mistake. I think we've taken care of this. Also, why not come from combinations of these four acres? Why should we say that the parcel, in order to derogate from four acres, should have been single and set a date? I put forward an amendment and we open it a little more, because I think it is an incentive to give our fellow citizens the unification of the fragmented land and to avoid too many arbitrary ones on the smaller plots. Let's motivate us to go to the four acres. Let it become a unit for organizing and building the four acres. In the four acres when you build two hundred square meters, it means that three thousand eight hundred meters stay for the green ones and, indeed, the green ones that the owner undertakes to keep and watch it. So what better can the state want? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have also tabled amendments to extend training where permitted in C2. In addition, the Secretary-General should be allowed to extend the possibility, instead of six months above, to complete the general urban plans which are in the second phase. I mean, if we don't give them and they couldn't do in semester, what are they gonna do? Will they be lost? I have one case on the Ororus. What's gonna happen? Give him a little bit more than once he's in phase two, so he can complete it. Isn't it healthy to have a general town plan? I say there are responsibilities. I say there's a delay. I say there are problems, whatever you want. But how will the problem be solved by not seeing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u109	That's it. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u110	Excuse me, Mr. President. Give me the opportunity, as other colleagues have asked, to substantiate my amendments. I said about these plots that lose their completeness due to forced expropriation. I have tabled an amendment on building where the demarcation studies have been carried out and there is a recommendation to decentralised. In order to make it easier to replace the supervising engineer - I did not know, gave it to me by some bodies - so that we could make it easier for the citizens. In conclusion, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, because it has been heard here about 'the land sold, etc.', the following: The greatest value exists in Attica and Attica, land uses are identified by an ZOE Only in North Attica there are no ZOE. There is the Launching Zoe, the Mediterranean Zoe, the Mount Agaleo Zoe, the Aspropyrgos Zoe. So, it's a little specified - a little too much. The derogations in these ILO areas have been abolished. We're talking about the rest. Of course, for the rest of us and for the north of Attica I would say that it is right, Minister, that the abolition of derogations should actually be linked to local urban plans. Why? Because when the ZOIs were built then they had said they were temporary in character and they are coming - he says - to deal with uncontrolled growth. Finally, they proved that from 1978 until today when it is Laurent, they have not changed at all, neither uncontrolled growth has been tackled nor changed. I remember then one signed on Manu that 'yes, he has injustices, but I myself will pass the perimeter that defines this zone, so that where there are mistakes to correct them'. Of course, the governments have changed. And because it has proved life that our policy has no continuity and, above all, it has no effect, it would be wrong at this time to go into a regulation that we do not know what luck it will have in the future. You have the best of intentions. You're saying the local town plan will end in two and a half years. Of course, I personally do, but you don't know how things will turn out. And faces change, and politics change, too. I would therefore say that, in order to ensure that citizens are assured that derogations are abolished, a local town plan will come, which will be different in each place. Different possibilities will be for you to build, for example, in Drosia and different in my own country, Lefkada. We understand that. Minister, the contribution of all of us is to achieve a better piece of legislation. I am doing this, so I have also taken these initiatives to the committee and to the plenary to deal with as many problems as possible. Citizens expect answers from you. I know you know the issues. I know you're studying them. We'll vote for the bill, because it gives solutions. Of course, we must also respond to the existing problems in society. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u112	Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u113	We're allowed to ask a question for information....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u114	Oh, no. I won't allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u115	For an amendment, to take it into account and correct it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u116	I can only allow you if you are a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u117	I'm the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u118	The rapporteur cannot, only the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u119	I cannot accept the amendments. Fine. There's a serious problem with your amendment, which is contrary to law, but it's probably not the President who wants to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u120	Mrs. Pulu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the peak of the second pandemic wave, when society is suffering between the health and economic crisis, when the National Health System is standing only because of the self-determination of medical and nursing personnel, the government has brought an unacceptable bill to the vote, which will create more problems for the many and will benefit the few, as it has been systematically legislated for seventeen months. This bill is yet another case of malformation. The explanatory statement should probably be called 'descriptors', as it is exhausted in a summary of the provisions and makes no reference to the problems they have to solve. Why, for example, did local spatial plans become urban on the basis of what justification? We won't find the answer anywhere. In addition, we have lost the account with the number of decisions to be adopted for its implementation. Thirty-nine, seventy-two ministerial decisions and how many presidential decrees after all? To treat a architectural transfer, your bill, Mr. Ministers, looks like a baroque institutional structure, heavy, outdated and dysfunctional. But let us move to the first chapter of the bill, to the piece of spatial and urban planning, which is neither simplified nor accelerated nor, unfortunately, improved. I wondered who and who you legislate about these arrangements. The hearing of the bodies and, in particular, the positions of the scientific bodies have confirmed my conviction that your reform is vacant and in fact you are again legislating for very specific interests. You say, first of all, that you regulate town and country planning issues for environmental protection, and last May you have legislated Law No.468520, environmental law as characterised by more than a hundred environmental organisations. While you have abolished protection regimes in NATURA areas, “CORINE”, in mountains and forests with critical natural stock, in archaeological sites, in high productivity land, while you have suspended the approval of forest maps and landmarking, you are now in a hurry to regulate, allegedly, the uses of land and the structured environment. On what background will town planning be based? After all, the representative of the CEDEFOP, the Mayor of Katerina and the former Member of the New Democracy have told you. He said it very well. Infiltration of RES only in terms of social justice and energy democracy must be done, without lowering the natural environment, to fragment the framework of spatial planning by strengthening local projects and weakening energy communities. Boeotia, unfortunately, is also a typical example of this disastrous policy of yours and local societies are rebels, Mr Ministers. I wonder, Mr. Undersecretary, in your capacity as professor, what you teach your students. Do you really teach that the subject of spatial planning prevails over the superintendent? How can it be possible to build the building? On the basis of what science? How can you remove planning at municipal level and promote its fragmentation in municipal units? The town planning plans do not constitute a mere change in terminology. On the contrary, they hide an unforgettable sin: the fragmentation of the space, the fragmentation of the design based on investment or housing interest, which are criteria for the selection of a study, as, after all, you mentioned in the relevant discussion with the CED in August, Minister. You tried to lure the CEDEFOP on the pretext of speeding up implementation of the project, flexible urban plans and even individual studies - if necessary - which will be launched at a rate of two hundred per se, starting from December, that is, four hundred per year. And with a simple calculation you assured that more than a thousand studies will be completed in two and a half years. In a decade, you said, we will have full, comprehensive planning throughout the country. The exclusion of the representatives of the municipalities, the Regional Associations of Municipalities and the CEDEFOP from the relevant decision-making centres and from the Central Council for Spatial Planning and Dispute, strengthens the reservations of the government towards your bill. Afterwards, the specific remarks and suggestions he has made and your assurances that they will be accepted, and in the end you rejected them, expressed its disappointment and proposed that it be withdrawn to the committee. Minister, under the pretext of lack of resources you have changed your planning, while we all know that the Ministry of Governance SYRIZA had completed the specifications of the thirty-three studies for each municipality and there have been the corresponding FEKs since 2019 for the recruitment of qualified scientific staff, as well as the guarantee of funding that is the one you are calling for today: the European Investment Bank. What you're changing is the intermediary. In other words, you are proposing the Greek register instead of the Green Fund. You personally, Mr Economou, participated, as a scientist, in the design of the specifications. I wonder what happened after the elections? Have scientific data changed because of your new status as Minister? The necessary holistic spatial or town planner - tell him as you like - planning at municipal level, which would lay the foundations for its sustainable development, disappeared as magically? And after you are keen to implement your vision of town planning, why have you been inacting for eighteen months? But how can you approach these objectives? With promises and magic wands, which, of course, have a lot to go on in this government? With what staff? With the coordinators you're hiring, you're answering. Who will approve, with their signature, the studies? But, of course, the officials of the public administration who, as you say, are decimated and, of course, will not sign in advance, I suppose, but after scientific scrutiny. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too ask for your tolerance. I wonder: What real time is finally earned that makes you so optimistic for the completion of the design? By subscribing, with so many ministerial decisions that are needed, we wonder whether there will be a start in the two-and-a-half years. And we are sure, after your statements, that the areas that the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises will be interested will be promoted. In L.468520, May, you come to supplement even more favourable provisions for investment interests and I think that with the slogan "go to the world" to the detriment of the sustainable development of the place, since the local projects will go through the ministerial office to approve the necessity and only by priority where there is investment and housing interest as selection criteria. Local government in continuous lockdown and local affairs will be evaluated at your ministerial offices. Random? No, because local government will find it difficult to sell local affairs to interests, because it is accountable to the citizens every day. After the road opened by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, with the opacity, concentration, manipulation of self-government and exclusion from decision-making bodies, you cannot be left behind. The "Theocraticization" of self-government is now ideally complemented by its "Economicisation". Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the arrangements for out-of-plan construction. It is hypocrisy for the government to celebrate that it solves this time-consuming problem in the name again of environmental improvement. The first consequence of these arrangements is the downturn in the citizens' confidence in the state, and the second consequence is the depreciation of small property with the aim of concentrating the land on the hands of investors. By mistake, Minister, you have forgotten the plots of two thousand square metres outside the plan and within the five hundred metres prior to 1977, as well as four acres before 2002, which do not include any derogations to the 1985 Presidential Decree on the derogations of which the Presidential Decree is maintained. First you are promoting a violent acceleration of procedures, but no one can assure us that you will not give any new extensions in two years. What does it cost for another extension? Perhaps more will be the political benefits. And if you assume that you are looking for a building activity, why don't you strengthen the 'EXECONOMIC' programme which clearly has a positive mark on the environment? Especially in Article 104 which a person from professional interest or distortion can study and understand the changes, as he must compare motamo, a word for word with Law 4067/2012, Articles 11 and 13 -- the building coefficient is discreetly strengthened, not numerically but with small increments in any case by the many changes. In neither of the amended cases, however, construction is not declining. In fact, many changes are as if the legislature were describing specific architectural plans. In fact, the title has been omitted, Minister, and many cases you add after the case. It is the fact that the sub-cases of good, b, c have probably been added so that you do not displease anyone, as they refer mainly to high buildings. Especially in the globe, a whole floor is added for reasons of static adequacy or earthquake shielding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u122	Finish it, Mrs. Pulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. What do you mean? The earthquake regulation has changed - how is it possible? - provided - he says he doesn't have any use? And who assures us that they will not acquire future use? Minister, here you give land and water or rather land and building factor. And I don't think you're saying that all these changes concern the design of folklore or average residence that we know no sauna or swimming pools and other such clips on the second basement or on floors. Of course, after all, we can see that no improvement in environmental conditions is achieved by the alleged abolition of the off-structural project, as you say it promotes this bill, if and when it is implemented. The so-called benefit claimed by the government disappears from the first construction of Article 104 in the existing structured environment in the urban fabric and in the surrounding area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u124	Close, Mrs. Pulu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u125	Your bill, Ministers, is not a reform. It is another missed opportunity to modernise planning in our country and also a win-win opportunity for diversity of interests. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u126	Please prepare the Step. Mrs Perka has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing I would like to say is that because there are continual amendments, Mr Ministers, which we do not even have time to read, if it is true that tomorrow we will have a tenth more time to put on the amendments. Secondly, I would like to ask a few questions about the amendments and to answer what is possible by the Minister. One has to do with Article 4 and the temporary placement of waste transhipment stations. We see here that, on the one hand in the Marathon municipality, this precedes it. It had been voted on by Law 4685, and in fact we had denounced that it was against local planning. It's coming back without being removed from the previous one. The second relates to the Municipality of Perama, where we have the opposition of the municipality, but you refer it to the Municipality of Piraeus. And I want some clarification as to the Greek for this provision for codon hotels in fact. As far as I know, there are neither such uses in the presidential decree nor in the NSAs in the development areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u128	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u129	We will see that on substance when the amendments are discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u130	If you do not remove the previous arrangement, two regulations will apply at the same time to the same subject. Good legacy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Polakis, don't interrupt, because because of the masks there's no sound. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u132	I'll tell you in private. We shall therefore see the substance of the matter when the time comes. From there on because I understand that you are raising a question - if I have understood correctly - about the Marathon Municipality transhipment station, it has not been regulated by the previous law. It's been arranged for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u133	Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis, the Mayor, has the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Before I entered the bill, I wanted to say something I heard from Mr. Velopoulos. Your people - it says - Mr Chiodras and Mrs Linou. Mr President, Mr Velopole, neither Mr Chiodras nor Mrs Linou nor any infectious person does not belong to parties. They belong to their science and the nation. And we thank them very much for what they do and for what they exist. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law corrects some bad texts on the spatial and urban conditions in our country, which lead to a practical inability to protect the environment, while at the same time causing delays and delays in a number of positive projects that both our country and local communities need. In this context, I therefore propose, Mr President, and Mr Secretary-General, an amendment with a general number of 599 and a special 45, which helps solve a chronic problem of the municipalities throughout the country - you are being watched with Mr Polakis, because you have been a mayor - while at the same time pushing solutions with a truly positive environmental footprint and dealing with the installation and operation of car parks for the local authorities - as you all know - tens of them daily services to the citizens. With the current regime as in force by the Presidential Decree of the 2018 land use, an almost absolute blockade of car parks for heavy vehicles by the municipalities has been created from almost all land use that occurs in and around the city. In short, it is not possible to build such parking areas in almost all the municipalities, which leads the mayors to use spaces which do not have the standard conditions on the roads, on the narrow, on the turns. Understand? The amendment proposed and signed by many Members - I could have more than a hundred, Minister, and you know that, I preferred to sign it four - solve this issue by amending the provision of the special use of land for the parking of vehicles of up to three and a half tonnes. The Presidential Decree of 2018 provides for what? What can you do in a garage so he can take vehicles of up to three and a half tons. The scrapers are five and five and a half tons, so what do we do with them? Shouldn't we be able to put them in the city? Where should we go? Find a place outside the city? How are we gonna get there? I want it to be understood that with the current provisions, both in the Presidential Decree of 2018, as in 1987, things are difficult. In addition to the amendment I have tabled, it is possible for the municipalities to proceed with the construction of modern underground trains with a positive environmental footprint and zero nuisance. In this way, a chronic issue concerning the whole of society is solved. I would like to say to you, Mr Minister, that the Antonis Tritsis programme, with dozens of municipalities, will make an underground garage. Should we be spending two, three, four years to make a special placement and modification of this particular orbital project? They went, they threw away the money. People won't do anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u135	"PHILIDIS" has these. Let us not say 'Antonis Tritsis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u136	At the "PHILDIMOS", Mr Polakis, it has not been possible to complete it. Some money has been transferred to "Antonis Tritsis". There are antonis Tritsis 2.5 billion with which the mayors make plans, will be funded. That's what I wanted to say. So, Minister, in Article 44 of your bill, where it refers to being able to park for vehicles of up to three and a half tons, you should put 'except for cars of local government without tone'. So when the wastewater has five and a half tons you can't tell me, make a special landfill to change it so that we can park. I'm talking about what's on the way. I'm also talking about when it's underground. I would like, Minister, to give you - I will not present it to the House - the unanimous decision of the City Council of the Municipality of Palaio Faliro, where I was the Mayor, the decision of the programme contract with the District Director of Duros, who financed and after we passed fifty waves of legal and ownership, the decision to auction the project, where I received a 63% discount and the 4.5 million will become a great garage for two floors on which the offices of cleanliness will be upstairs. I want to close with this: Hatzidakis always solves problems. I am quite sure that my amendment will be accepted in order to move forward and to do something in the place. We're all judging, not what we're saying, but what we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u139	Before I give the floor to Mr. Synthraki from the Communist Party of Greece, I will give the Minister the floor to submit the legislative improvements. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like to put forward the first package of legislative improvements, which are largely based on comments by colleagues at committee meetings. It's twenty-two different legislative improvements. Each one makes his evaluation. If I did my own evaluation of these - to help Ethiopia - I would choose some interventions in the new building regulation. I repeat that this assessment is a basis for proposals and suggestions by colleagues in the committee. I would choose the interventions made in relation to the protection and treatment of wild fauna and flora, the location of which is relevant. I would also choose to delete the arrangement in Article 138 (c) in respect of the land of high productivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u141	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to colleagues. Now I give the floor to Mr. Synergy. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. As has already been said by our rapporteur, this bill is classic, counter-environmental and authoritarian. It serves competitiveness, the principle of maximum flexibility in the system of spatial planning and urban planning in order to make large-scale investments in dynamic and profitable sectors, the location of industrial, tourist and other facilities, even in mountainous volumes, beaches and geographical areas of high productivity, the installation of wind parks even in nuclei of national parks and areas of particular natural beauty. This, of course, requires the expansion of private property on earth, the merchandise and that part of the land which belongs directly or indirectly to the public sector, the abolition of any restrictions which existed in changes in land use and the direct function of those with investment projects, and the implementation of these by fast track procedures. You see, business groups invest where there is certain and abundant profit. The bill is fully in line with the national recovery and resilience plan, which seeks to implement new urban planning regulations at 4/5 of the country in order to do just that, namely more attractive investments, on the other hand to impose special economic zones on the people. The problem, of course, is not, in itself, typically, spatial planning. As much as the other parties want to avoid the debate, the main political question is who decides, with what criteria and to what benefit the priorities for placement at national and local level. It is no coincidence that the National Council for Spatial Planning has a dominant and circumstantial role to play in BSE, namely representatives of industrialists and tourists, the Hellenic Association of Business Parks, as well as other bodies, representatives of domestic capital, while at the same time literally being thrown out of this body, the Forest Service and the Pan-Hellenic Association of Architects - Diplomas of High Schools. Invoking sustainable development, social and regional cohesion by governments and capital, in our view, is ashes in the eyes of the workers. None of this is possible in the context of capitalist development. This is an ideological propaganda aimed at easier acceptance by the people's layers, especially in the most degraded areas of all these anti-population choices. That's what the draft law does. Under the pretext of combating spatial and urban anarchy, it comes to regulate issues of land use, land planning in general, but not on the basis of the interests of the vast majority of workers, micro-owners outside the building project, but on the basis of the needs and the class interests of the urban class. So, at the level of spatial planning, the right to set up in private and public investment is extended - for example, with airports, ports, motorways, dams and other cases - the prohibitions are reduced, while the opposite is the case with popular strata. At the level of town planning, as with the arrangements of the non-building project, the right to entrepreneurial activity is extended and the right to take advantage of popular strata is reduced. This modernisation of spatial and urban legislation in fact redefined institutional and legal limits on rights and prohibitions of construction. But never - but never! - the urban state did not provide with public expenditure for the necessary social infrastructure in the urban areas, water, sewerage, ombres, electricity, flood roads, roads, roads of education, health, welfare, culture, sport, waste and waste management sites, cemeteries. These are implemented at an additional cost to the people's strata, with the remuneration and commercialisation of the respective services. With this draft law, the State is exempted from any obligation, with the express prohibition that anyone who does not have a large capital and an extent of their own does not build out of a project and does not have any demands from the State. It is clear that the Government adapts spatial planning to land and sea to the needs and designs of business groups, both domestic and foreign, to collect the land, rather than to areas outside the city plan and to make free investments, planting wind turbines, building industrial and tourism units, even in forest areas or NATURA areas, without any control and restriction. It promotes the restriction of off-site construction in the name of so-called environmental protection and residence, and at the same time favours the off-site construction for organised receptors, i.e. for tourist and construction capital. So it devaluates small property and as a cherry on the cake, it allows them - with the gun on the head - if they do not want to lose their property, within two years to take off and build them. But what micro-enterprises do they decide to build when the majority of these difficult conditions are currently employed, employed, self-employed, poor farmers, unemployed, who have lost over 50% of their income, with debts in banks, in tax, with the tax levied on them? In fact, the government is making fun of them inconsistently, putting an end to the cost of building permits - which is attributed, it says, to the Green Fund - in whichever decides to structure in non-planned areas, where construction is not allowed first. It is evolving, however, that leads to a new cycle of derogations, to enhance uses and functions in the exotic space. They are, as you can see, arrangements for the tourist capital. Any restrictions of a selective nature, of course, which are seen in the build-up factors by category of uses. It reduces, for example, the building coefficient for micro-ownerships and increases it for receptors for productive activities. It is this premium that facilitates and promotes the widespread placement of business activities in the inland area. The Government also legalises infringements and illegal use changes with the provisions for delimiting the settlements before 1923, while the transfer of the building coefficient will work in favour of construction companies, leading to a change in the character of whole areas and to the legalisation of arbitrarily through the transfer of a build-up factor. This policy will clearly provoke many generations of arbitrariness and the state of capital - before all - and even the citizens. The arbitrariness of the environment, however, is treated succinctly by the State, with no intention of restoring and rejuvenating the abused areas. People's strata, fines and burdens are being imposed on the various governments and municipalities of all colors - either the New Democracy or the SYRIZA or the Change Movement - just to increase the revenues of the state which are being channelled back into big capital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is a challenge that out of the billions of euros collected from the misery of poor people's families who joined the law on settlements has not been returned to these regions to deal with the serious problems of civil protection and planning that they face. It is clear once again that governments do not give a damn about the people's needs and the protection of the environment in the face of the profits of business groups. Both of these issues in this draft law, namely the regulations on the old arbitrary and non-planning construction, are in the same sense. They do not fundamentally change the situation the proposals to extend the years of the transitional provisions or to different treatment of co-ownership.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u143	Complete your time, Mr. Synthraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u144	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I'm referring to the indivisible, small plots. At the reverse of this policy, Mr President, it is the policy of the JRC, with its perception of the development and organisation of the social area, the central planning in another Greece, the socialist one we say. In this sense, therefore, we reject the draft law, the spatial and town planning of the civil-class staff, which are strategic plans, with the main aim of the bastion and perpetuation of monopolistic and capitalist sovereignty. That's all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Greetings to Crete and Heraklion!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u146	Thank you! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u147	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has asked the floor - for a question, I imagine - Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Yesterday, Mr President, we had a debate with the rapporteur on yesterday's draft law on the part of the Greek Solution, Mr Villardos, who, in his speech, was smuggling, made a very devaluation of the Prime Minister, Costas Simitis. And because we have decided, when we are in the Chamber and there are reports of this kind, that we should not allow them to remain unanswered, because they create "say, say, "say, say "speak" data, I have taken the floor and pointed out two - three of the excellent moments of the former Prime Minister. He told me he'd come back. He returned to his speech today. I appreciate him, he's very well documented. In this context, however, it mistakes and erroneouss to the extent that it no longer escapes the framework. In my speech, I just want to remind you of five things, without having a personal head against you. I want to remind you of three, four, five policies of this Prime Minister. I am referring first of all to the Economic and Monetary Union. The accession of Greece has been a great success. I am also referring to the very large projects that the Greek people have been using for many years at the Rio-Antirio Bridge, Attica, the Metro, the Ennatia Road. And there is no end to that list, and I do not have time. I am referring to the allowance, Mr Colleagues, to an allowance which has greatly helped the integration of our unpunished fellow citizens in the middle layers, and has improved their income. I am referring to the 'CAPESTRIA' programme, which was the beginning of major local government reforms. I am referring to the Citizen's Counsel, to the public contracts. There is no end to this list. I am thinking of the arrest and dismantling of 17 November, of Cyprus-related issues - Cyprus became a member of the European Union - and then of the Eurozone, the Western Balkans initiative, which is still in operation, Mr President. As for medicinal products, when we delivered in 2004, the consumption of medicinal products was the same as in the Netherlands and Belgium, that is, with countries of the same population as Greece. I don't understand why that empathy. We disagree - and that is right - we may disagree on many things. And the equipment programs that took place in PASOK are based on the country's defence now. Don't stand on the railroads! I also agree with you on these, but the country is now relying on those armaments programmes. That is why we need a little streamlined relationships between us. We press back on data, we talk about data, and we exchange different estimates. There's no need for excesses. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u149	We continue the list of Members of Parliament and I call on the New Democracy MEP, Mr Constantine Maraveya, to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics we do not always see a government doing what it has announced in an election or telling the truth to the citizens about what it really can do. After all, we have had, unfortunately, SYRIZA colleagues, the example of the last five years of your own governance, with innumerable variations in top-level issues, its political revolts in numerous social problems and the false bills that SYRIZA voted for in the House, as well as in the case of environmental protection. The current government, however, has had to change this negative picture for good. A characteristic example that confirms the credibility of the New Democracy and of Mr.Mitsotakis' personalities is the current bill of the Ministry of the Environment. This is, indeed, a reform - this time in the structured environment - which is coming to implement the election commitments of the New Democracy and to facilitate the exploitation of private property, but always with respect for the natural environment and sustainable development. This is precisely the philosophy of the liberal party and of the Prime Minister himself, already from his first term as a MP and environmental director of the New Democracy. Minister, I would have to denounce some of the positive measures contained in the bill under discussion. Activate the transfer rate of builder so as to obtain real usefulness and include other cases such as those of maintained buildings. We are also giving a higher rate of environmentally friendly building construction, as an incentive to promote, among other things, bioliquid design. We are creating a mechanism that can function in practice, the Digital Earth Bank, which will allow the acceptance and offer of a builder with a click, quickly and impersonally, without any margin of unfair trade. Moreover, it is stipulated that anyone who buys a rate should pay the municipality an additional 5%, intended to create public spaces. We specify the conditions for the spatialization of the reception lifespans Factor. Thus, the transfer of a building coefficient will not take place unreservedly, but only in specific areas and with clear rules, ensuring that, on the one hand, the legalisation of arbitrary resources by means of the transfer of a building coefficient and, on the other, that the local nature of the natural and structured environment is protected. Another modernisation intervention is the changes in the New Building Regulation, which accelerates the issue of building permits, making procedures more friendly to engineers and owners. Thus, the electronic licensing procedure and more than all the building permits will be automatically issued following the electronic submission of the file with the necessary supporting documents. We are providing total funding of EUR 200 million from the Recovery Fund and the European Investment Bank in order to finally draw up all the local urban projects, which are still pending. Today, Greece is covered by local urban plans only at 20% of the land. With this project, the whole country will have local urban planning plans by 2028 and by 2023 local urban planning plans will be available for all tourist regions in Greece. In order to make this possible within these timescales, we allow certified private engineers to participate in the assessment of urban studies. Innovative urban tools, such as the withdrawal of old buildings and special expropriation of floors, are also introduced. In particular, the owners are provided with incentives to withdraw worthless buildings in order to renew our country's building potential, while the state is able to expropriate individual floors to multi-stage structures for specific reasons in the public interest. In fact, for the withdrawal of the old buildings, which will be carried out at the initiative of the owners themselves, incentives are laid down, and for the expropriation of floors the public should pay reasonable compensation to the owners and that these expropriations will only be made in exceptional cases. Another key central intervention of the Ministry is the freedom from the hostage of eternal rhetorical expropriations of many affected property throughout Greece. Thus, municipalities will be able to block the development of real estate or commit them for an indefinite period, on the grounds that they will once be able to use them in future municipal projects. Finally, we are modernising all the provisions on the accessibility of people with disabilities - today is the World Disabled People's Day - following modern European trends. In this direction, facilities are provided to enhance accessibility of buildings by HEIs, such as the possibility to manufacture special ramps outside the line, the addition of lifts to buildings where there is no provision in the original building permit, the non-adjustment of special structures which serve, such as tiles, lifts, etc., at the building coefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the spatial part of this bill, which I consider to be the most developmental part of this government's legislative initiative. This is because it lays the foundations for simplifying the use of land, with a view to combating bureaucracy and strengthening economic development. Our central aim is for everyone, owners and investors, where they can build what, that is to enable them to exploit their land without incomprehensible bureaucratic constraints and time-consuming administrative procedures. A characteristic example is the facilitation of mixed land uses, as is done throughout the rest of Europe. The aim of the New Democracy is the legislative framework for land uses to become simple, transparent, functional and to meet the modern needs of our economy and society. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to publicly acknowledge the sensitivity of the Ministry of the Environment's political leadership, which listens to the social demands and responds to Members' proposals, solving problems. I am referring in particular to the extension given for one year to the final entries in the register for those areas in which certification was started before 2006. Thus, until 31/12-2021 the possibility for affected owners to escape the status of their property as ‘unknown owner’, taking into account the difficulties caused by the pandemic to all interested parties. In relation to Thessaly and especially Magnesia, it is very important that sanctions for arbitrary constructions and changes in the use of real estate are suspended in areas declared within 2020 in an emergency by Civil Protection. It turns out this way once again that the New Democracy Government not only puts the bar of social responsibility high, but through its actions it succeeds in overcoming the positive expectations of everyone. Mr President, I will take a little advantage of your tolerance to respond to the personal issue raised in the speech by Mr Velopoulos. So, let us know, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Solution you are in the Chamber, that my colleagues from my office helped Mr. Giorgos from Rethymno to make the request for the reincorporation into the social invoice, because of course I have great sensitivity to the daily problems of the citizens, but I am showing so much sensitivity when from this Step, the heavyness, of the National Representation, there are things that are unscrupulously scientific, from people who have no knowledge of medicine and do not feel that the gravity of their role, however, can affect public opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u152	I can't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u153	As a Parliamentary Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u154	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u155	I won't talk long. To congratulate the fellow Member who helped our fellow citizen, at the suggestion of the President of the Greek Solution, and we are pleased about that. This is our role to help our fellow humans and good for doing so. I just want to make it clear, Mr President, that. Everyone is responsible for what he says and not what he understands. That is why the President of the Greek Solution will not be apologised, nor the Greek Solution. Mr. Velopoulos invoked scientists. This has made it clear, Mr Colleague, from the Step of the House, which you referred to and said it was sacred. So since the Step of the House is sacred, you should be very careful what you say when you put a party and parliamentary group president in your mouth and blame him with lies. So he was invoked by doctors. He said what the doctors say and made it clear, saying, "I don't have medical knowledge." He said what doctors say and when he says "your doctors" he does not mean by the neo-democratics. He means the ones you're okay with and you're working with are your partners right now, like Mr. Chiodras and Mrs. Linou. It's not bad. He didn't lie. That's enough of the specula, for God's sake. Again congratulations for helping our fellow citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, can I say a word?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Maraveya, say a word, but I'm not familiar with the matter. You know, the President finds out whether or not there is a personal matter. I am now an unknown subject. But because I want it to end smoothly and not to be regarded as unfair, you have the floor for a minute. We must not be intensified, since I think that matters are being clarified in good faith.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u158	It was just my admonition that no one should interpret the scientists when they do not have the scientific knowledge necessary to do so. That's what I said before. [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, you interpreted my words in your own way. That's the parable. Someone be careful how he interprets, because he then invokes them and confuses public opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u159	I think that all the issues have been clarified and I understand a little bit that I didn't know anything about. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position on this serious bill, and I would like to emphasise something to you, Mr Hatzidakis. If you want, you can hear it. I listened to you this morning, arguing about the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members for the third time for electricity reconnections - and I would remind you that yesterday, forty-seven Members were also tabled - you should refer once again to malicious payers. I believe that this expression is an insult, firstly, to many to the Greek people right now, who in the vortex of the COVID pandemic cannot pay, lose electricity, as there are disconnections. Recently there are reports of what happened in Thrace and so on. Secondly, it is an insult to small and medium-sized businessmen who have closed shops. Today, in an interview that has been said to be closed because of Lockdown, it is called upon to pay an advance to PPC of EUR 1.800 - compared to - and 4.000 repayable advance. I would like to say, therefore, that with greater respect you must stand up, as a government and see what can be done, that there are no cuts in electricity, that there are reconnections. And with regard to the July CSR on reconnections, I should like to say that the funds are small and that the funds are small. So I come now to the draft law. It would be a good thing if the Ministry of the Environment and on the basis of what I said before actually dealing with these top energy and social issues. But you are now coming and bringing a very serious bill and a nice gold wrapping, entitled'simplification, acceleration, clarification of spatial relations and town plans', you are trying to present it as a bill that theoretically solves many issues, as you say. Of course, we don't believe it. Already the experience of today and of the legislation that you brought up this shows, whether it is anti-environmental law or electricity, which, as it goes on, - we were not opposed to the institution, with your bill, we were in trouble - essentially help some electric bicycles alone. And you're coming now with this barbaric title. Essentially there are changes, stitching and alteration of three main earlier laws, which refer to urban and spatial planning - they are n.4447/2016, for maritime planning n.4546/2018, for the structured environment n.4495/2017-, which are still in force and amendments to presidential decrees, such as the non-building project and the land use plan, which have affected and shaped the Greek area in the last hundred years. You are basically demolishing the existing institutional framework and, on the other hand, you are talking about investment, development, and you say that the law will help in this direction. You do not want to understand, however - and here too, you do not solve issues, apart from many of the services you are doing - that a serious investor always wants clear urban, land use, etc. We are talking about responsible and reliable investors. We're not talking about investors who know that whatever the government asks is likely to solve. This is how the lack of rules, which exists for years and responsibilities, have the old big parties, the old bipartisanism, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which had a strong customer character. You do not want the country's legislative tools for strategic planning and instead of organising and planning, dismantling and helping once again. Climate change adaptation plans are not mentioned in the bill, the regional plans. This is a very serious matter. The problem of the world, of the planet, all are dealing with climate change and, depending on this factor, the corresponding design at all levels. Frozen Land registers, forest maps, local villages everywhere, do not go to institutionalised building observatories, e-Identity, degrade the marine space, remove everywhere the term "a coastal area" and give a time to build plots outside the plan - those who prevent - by supporting the reduction of supposedly of the outside construction plan. You are dealing with the small ones, who, on a bipartisan basis, were granted derogations, while the big ones were favoured once again. The CEDEFOP itself, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, pointed out too much negatively in this draft law, but you probably did not take it into account. Even in arbitrary intervention. You're changing category 5 to favour seized public real estate and mainly banks. In other words, the banks, the ordinary citizen, who wants to take care of his home. It's not the same. There is an extension for the banks, and there are photographic provisions. I now come to maritime planning. The draft law makes substantial amendments to Law 4546/2018, which incorporates a Framework Directive, on 89/2014, for maritime spatial planning, jeopardising the quality of marine space projects, as well as the country's timely compliance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The approach taken conflicts with the basic principles of the Framework Directive, is not sufficiently substantiated and satisfactory in the light of spatial planning science, but also in the light of legal science, as Law 4546/2018, which is amended, has not been applied, has not produced spatial effects and has therefore not been interpreted by the Council of State. Directive 89/2014 had already included in the first drafts of the text as a necessity for maritime spatial planning in the management of coastal areas. And I say, Minister, that in the case of the Mediterranean countries, the obligation stemming from the 7th Protocol to the Barcelona Convention applies, the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management, which has been signed, ratified and entered into force by the European Union since 24 March 2011, turning it into Community law and thus into an obligation of all Member States. Greece is the only country - member who has signed since 21 January 2008, but has not made progress in its implementation. According to the above, Law 4546/2018 rightly considered the sea and coastal area as a single spatial group, which must have a single spatial visa and design. UNEP through the Regional Centre for the Management of the Coastal Zone, already in the April 2019 report of the Parties to the Protocol, acknowledges and acknowledges that maritime spatial planning is a tool for implementing integrated coastal zone management, due to the spatial overlap, i.e. recognising that maritime spatial planning is also relevant to the coastal area. The removal of the coastal area from the scope of the design shall put the effort in doubt. I would remind you that, on 8 September, forty-five Members of the SYRIZA, we asked a question about the ratification of the Barcelona Convention. The answer, which has recently come to the Ministry, is that at this stage - I have your answer - the ratification file is at the political leadership of the RIS in order to assess the time to relaunch it. You will say: "What have you done?" Yeah, we didn't, say. You, however, have now come to correct and spaced, intervening in maritime planning, because you obviously did not find the right time to relaunch the ratification file of the Barcelona Protocol. Gentlemen of the government may sound good, but a shortening of time and procedures does not mean simplification and acceleration. The government of SYRIZA had matured local villagers at the level of the municipality of three hundred and thirty studies. The current government gives the opportunity to draw up a municipality by increasing the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u161	Finish it, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u162	I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. And others spoke more. The support of the public sector, which would help to achieve the objective, does not result from the proposed provisions. However, I am going to refer to and table the following documents here in the Minutes. One thing has to do with the Greek Geologists' Association and the other has to do with the Agricultural Chamber - I will submit after the relevant documents - which are placed and said that the concept of geological risks is extinguished in this draft law and is cut down the decisive stage of geological suitability study. When our country has natural disasters and unfortunately also lamented victims, bypassing and devaluing the geological fitness studies is very serious and it has nothing to do with sustainable development, with regard to climate change, which also contributes to increasing destructive phenomena such as the ones we have seen in Karditsa, Samos, Crete, Evia, etc. Your draft law actually does not answer questions, both at the level of spatial planning and town planning, because we do not suffer from laws, but from the implementation of a holistic plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u164	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, because I have discussed with all the rapporteurs of the other parties, and they are in agreement, we are asking tomorrow for a regular recommendation by each party on the two amendments, which actually number 30 articles. These are important issues that will affect the daily lives of our people. That is what we are asking and there is the agreement of all the rapporteurs. Before we begin tomorrow, not to continue with the speeches, but to make our position on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u166	Good, you've heard of it. The government hears it. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a couple of days ago I had seen a post, which was imprinted on my mind and rescinded it yesterday in my memory, and I want to share it with you. It's a post about the ancient secrets of Kythnos. Here in the picture are the excavating fronts of the rocky island Vriokastraki opposite Vriokastronis the ancient town of Kythnos. Starting the post as follows: "A resolution of the Municipality of Kythnion, which lays down restrictions on the building infringements of the ancient Kythnians, as well as the fine to be collected by the theorists in case of architectural addition, is one of the touching findings of this year's excavation on the island. The inscription is in a donor dialect and was found in Vryokastraki, the uninhabited rocky island next to Vryokastro, once an integral part of it". In other words, some centuries before Christ our ancestors, the ancient Greeks, had town rules. Watch out. I am not talking about either the Acropolis or the Delphi or ancient Olympia. I am referring to an island of Cyclades where two and a half thousand years ago there were rules on town planning. I ask myself: are all the colleagues who are criticizing of 'why are you, my child, upsetting the waters and trying to get things going a little further in the direction of Europe', honestly within them how they feel? I am not an honor to anyone's conscience, but does anyone think that the place can go ahead with noteworthy or that the place can go in front of the "let it for later", which I have heard hundreds of times since I've been elected here and be present in this Chamber? Can we go anywhere, please? This is double for those who claim to be progressive. Progress is the point, progress is to be back and what was going on two and a half thousand years ago? See the image in many areas of our country and tell me if we have to reconcile with this image and whether the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, has the mandate to compromise with this image. You go to a lot of areas and you see a house next to a handkerchief and next to a hotel next to a greenhouse. All Europe, including Albania, has gone beyond us in local town planning projects. Well, we don't agree with that. It's over! We can't deal with it! We have a mandate from the Greek people to move forward with all the necessary European reforms that modernise Greece and that is how we move forward. We, Mr. Economou and I are on our way to our predecessors, who have tried hard and costly many times to change things with arrangements for local town planning, for off-plan construction, for renovation in various regions of Athens and other cities. There were reactions at that time, but at the end no one remembers either the reactions or those who react. Those who really live are the ones who are compiled on the right side of history, the ones who go where all the advanced countries go. We don't need to discover the pyritis. So let us decide once in this Chamber to make an exception to this micro-participatory concept, which has characterized us for many years and to see things with an excess of heart and a spirit of common sense. We, ladies and gentlemen - Mr Economou, Mr Bakoyannis, I, the whole group that contributed to this bill, engineers, lawyers, all of us who have been working for months on this bill - are proud of this great section of town planning and planning, which is trying to put a class in chaos as much as possible. Because it was rightly pointed out by many colleagues - we are seeing it at a glance around us both in Athens and in other cities and villages - that chaos has grown so much over the last few decades that it obviously cannot be fully dealt with either with it or with other bills, but we must put a stone in the stall. We have to do something. I, at least, would not be okay with my conscience if, under the fear of my political costs, I was untrue and theoretically speaking in favour of Europe and the reforms, but in practice I continued to policy on 'Bavroyaluru'. That's what this is about. That's it! The bill, therefore, makes a series of specific areas which will reflect life, economy and everyday life immediately after its vote. This bill, in fact, is more investment-friendly and investment is a prerequisite for the country to move forward. It cannot proceed with vows and prayers, nor with the comfort from the height. It is more investment-friendly because it modernises the status of land use. It relieves us of a Soviet model of overregulation, which does not allow owners and investors to do their job. It makes things more flexible, more clear, connects the things that apply to town planning and land planning to what the Treasury is looking for. We're talking with the same language now. All services will speak in the same language. Secondly, we are doing an intervention that SYRIZA did not dare over the four and a half years that he has been in government. We limit building for business, when naughty. For industries, we limit the building coefficients, the relevant coefficients, by 33%. We who are supposed to serve the interests of the great, we are doing something that you have not done. Of course, at the same time, we are motivating the organized business in the parks. Yes, there, as is happening throughout Europe, we are giving more build-up factors. Yeah, but that's an organized business. We are dealing with and believe in solid bases for the first time after 1978 and after several failures, the demand from various owners, especially owners, by transferring a build-up factor, based on the case law of the Council of State and through the establishment of the Digital Bank of Earth. We're doing it. Carefully, without great steps, to ensure that this reform is sound, but it is done. And this intervention will remain. We proceed to a series of friendly interventions by engineers and citizens, the New Building Regulation, and proposals from the TEI, the technical world. We're not interfering with the volume of buildings. But we allow for greater flexibility within the building, that is to say, we allow engineers and owners to have a greater chance of forming the buildings internally, and I obviously do not believe there is anyone who considers it negative, not to run a test within people's homes, when this is not about technical and safety issues. We relieve the hostage of eternal rhetoric expropriations many owners throughout Greece. I have heard colleagues from the Opposition say: 'But the municipalities will lose the opportunity to create public spaces'. The municipalities, like neither of us, can function despite the Constitution and bind the property of our fellow citizens without using them infinitely. We say, "Major, you made a commitment four years ago. Second four years you made it up. But do something. Find a way to make use of it." We are not a free regime. The right to property is protected in this country. However, we as a party are saying this clearly. Of course, through the Recovery Fund and through the Green Fund we give the municipalities the opportunity to be financed at the same time in order to go ahead in this direction, and that is quite clear. We are making a series of innovations, such as the withdrawal of floors and the withdrawal of buildings with incentives to heavy environment and climate neighbourhoods. We motivate owners to tear down floors or tear down buildings with the possibility of expanding in width or along, so that neighbourhoods become more friendly to citizens. We are the one that, today, obviously, is bringing rules to Parliament - today is the world day for our people with disabilities - for the accessibility of the disabled. We are bringing arrangements for the elevators, for the folds, for the ramps, so that we do not speak theoretically of these people, but of doing something specific. I hope that the Greek Parliament will unanimously approve this article at least. We will also talk about the amendments tomorrow. In the amendment to spatial planning, we are bringing in a regulation, which has been criticised, for the central building service, because the Ministry will be able to intervene in some cases. What do we want? The Ministry must be the "lexiceran", to be critical of the citizens, of the opposition, by the institutions, by everyone, but to be weak, to be spectators of the situation, to be weak in municipalities, to perpetuate the issue, to have the phenomena that you yourself denounced, but to address the issue in the hope of a miracle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u168	Then build a shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u169	What we are doing, then, is giving priority to the logic, which is the law on strategic investment, so that some important projects can go faster - the strategic investment, the ones that are in the NSRF over five hundred thousand, the ones that are over three thousand squares - to do something at the place, to go ahead, to invest, to open up jobs, to come growth. We will not do you the favor of remaining unrealistic, so that at the end of the four-year period you will judge us for the chaos that we inherited from you and which, by inappropriateness, would have been perpetuated with us. In addition, the CYROM, the central agency, is also expected to deal with "collapsing" issues in the local PSOs. For you have denounced the phenomena which indeed exist. Last week there were complaints in the press. So you ask Mr. Economou to look at the moon, to see the problem and to say "I expel this glass from me." Pontius Pilate. Oh, no. We will not become Pontius Pilates. I am sorry to be sad, but you should be sad about the fact that we are going to put order rather than the Greek citizen being sad at the very bad experiences he has in towns. Furthermore, we who are supposedly unsensitive to the environment, which we are conservative in the negative sense of the term you are adhering, are making an arrangement by putting an end to 'fabrika' with the naisks and naisks, that is to say, the small temples which are used pre-standardly as a'vehicle' in order for others to make arbitrary constructions, especially on our islands. With this bill and the amendment on which I saw you react, this practice ends and this is the signature of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also deals with the issue of off-setting. Indeed, the original version of the bill was more ambitious - we did not hide this - and it involved both the under four acres and the upper four acres. Why did we change our minds? Basically, because it was rightly pointed out in the consultation that the state with a 2003 PASOK law had given the certainty to all owners above four acres that they could build - the law wrote it - without a front on the road. Therefore, thousands of our fellow citizens had bought such fields or had already them and were confident that they can move forward. Because we are not ready tomorrow morning to resolve matters in relation to urban planning and roads, the related loose ends, we said this matter should be linked to local urban plans. However, that is no reason not to go ahead with the derogations, which were first introduced in 1962 in Greece. In 1929, when the arrangements for out-of-construction were first adopted, there were no derogations. I said earlier about ancient Greece and urban arrangements. In modern Greece, from 1929 to 1962, there were no exceptions - derogations to the off-project construction. They were introduced in 1962 for a few years, which is why they were "baptized" derogations and the few years became fifty-eight years. So we are coming today and we are abolishing these derogations, giving the relevant transitional period. Here I must say that I am particularly impressed by the Change Movement, which in 2011 came and abolished the off-project construction in the NATURA regions, and I commended this Step here, instead of coming today and advocating the continuation of this initiative, changing rotas, turning 180 degrees and putting the reverse and going backwards. He also forgot his own initiative in the context of his opposition tactics. I'm not going to determine your opposition tactic, but anyone can draw their conclusions. In any case, we combine this policy with transitional measures, as I have explained many times, that is to say, derogations are not abolished tomorrow morning. There are two years of adaptation to get the building permit out, there is further extension if you are blocked by the office or the Archaeological Service and you have four more years to build, i.e. if you are in a hurry, as I have repeatedly said, you really have a minimum six years to do and if you are not in a hurry, you will go where 20% of the country is today. In 20% of the country there are local urban plans today, and I do not think none has collapsed in these areas. Mr Vlacho referred earlier to various areas of Attica. I referred to three Lassithi municipalities last time. Why, in Lassithi, the thing goes smoothly and won't go to Chania? Crete is one, Crete is the other. I have also referred to previous positions in local, town plans or special decrees, in any case, - the same category belongs - to Paros, Serifos, Sifnos. Why is the thing going well in Serifos, Sifnos and Paros and not going well in Milos, Io or I don't know which islands in the Cyclades? Why? Can someone tell me, but beyond the micro-groups and the "inventions" to make opposition? Let's talk sincerely from our hearts, because I guess we're all interested in this place. So we must make an effort to see a few issues beyond these micro-groups, because in the same homeland we are all and the environment is not a case of the New Democracy, neither of SYRIZA nor of the JRC nor anyone. The property - let's get it messed up - will be worthless if we let it all get messed up. So this bill is against "badification" and that is why it is a very large section. I would like to close with a few comments on a number of relevant colleagues, particularly the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'm starting with SYRIZA. There were different locations. Mr Paulakis, my compatriot, was put in a negative position against the whole bill, from what I understood, but certainly against the arrangements for out-of-plan construction. I have to say it's in complete disharmony with what I knew the Left was traditionally saying while I've at least read. The left was against the non-building project, but I must recognize at the same time that it is in complete harmony with the SYRIZA, because as SYRIZA has ruled, it has done absolutely nothing about the off-project construction. So on the left he is across the street, but with his party he is fine, because he was indeed a party of the act. Mr. Paulakis also then made a few comments on some major investments in Crete. I really have no idea about the investments, and how could I know every investment made at the place? But if I had, of their features, we're talking about too many acres, which are not regulated by this bill. There are already laws that include all these cases. So his criticism, if I understood correctly, is not at all about the big investments in this bill. I will then make a few remarks about Mr Famello, who was at a somewhat different tone in relation to Mr Polakis, because he also served as Minister for the Environment and he obviously feels within him - I am sure - that the party cannot come out completely in favour of the outside construction project. Mr Famelos made three points at first. He said at the outset that there is a salt in the arrangements supposedly for out-of-plan construction, because there are exceptions and different arrangements. So I am thinking of hearing him for the first time: exceptions and different settings, Mr Femellos is left, the left traditionally was against the non-building project, so it refers to the exceptions - I thought naively - to end up being against the non-building project and that he would like the bill more courageously. Then he turns around, makes a second observation and says that this is where we're chasing the little ones, for whom he's sensitive, and so we have to support them, let them build. So it's not against the outside building, it's in favor. He suggests we continue for the little ones. However, since he had already spoken of alalum and of different classifications from us, since he is in favour of being out of plan construction for young people - he clearly told us that - because he does not want to be there on the basis of his first thought of different classifications, I can then conclude, on the basis of common sense rules, that Mr Famelos is finally proposing to keep out of plan construction for everyone. So he's bothering him and he's referring to the alalum, because Mr. Famelos wants out of plan construction without rules. Bowl everywhere! It's obviously Mr. Famelos' doctrine, only he tried to hide it from us, and he needs an effort to decode one's mind. We have also received comments on the banks. Again the same as the banks from both SYRIZA and the JRC, I think the Change Movement. What are we doing with the banks? We say that if they own a house, which is already being auctioned and which is arbitrary, because they had no way of controlling their property - badly, but there was no way in Greece - to give them the opportunity to settle it. What do you suggest? Don't take care of it. And why would we allow it to be granted to the heirs that we allow in this bill? To the heirs, we allow it. He's inheriting a house, he didn't know the situation, he wasn't responsible, we let him. The banks, why not allow it? In order to be satisfied that we are editing the banks, which I am passing away, I am not just saying that if the banks fall apart, the economy is falling apart, etc. - the government has a smaller or larger share in all banks. In other words, you want us to turn against ourselves, the public and your voters, who, as Greek citizens, are ultimately small shareholders in the banks. It doesn't make sense. A free evil and a mean opposition. Mr. Famelos again spoke of local town planning plans. He said SYRIZA proceeded with it. These in SYRIZA's imagination, of course, because they did not go ahead. He said they had closed the deal with the European Investment Bank. According to Mr Economou, who has spoken to the European Investment Bank, the bank says exactly the opposite. And I suppose it will also bring all the relevant information to establish exactly what it has underlined in committee. Mr Famelos also says that "you do not give responsibility to local planning agencies for local planning". But one minute after his position, he criticises Mr. Economou, because he sent a letter to local government, so that the mayors can tell them what priority areas are. Both can't be. And that we do not pay attention to self-government, but also to the fact that Mr. Economou sends letters to ask for their opinion. From there on, they heard the usual ones, that the bill is counter-environmental. All SYRIZA colleagues have said so. One thing you have not noticed, basically, is that the environmental organisations that have been placed are rather positive. They have said, as Mr Arsenis says, that 'we would like the government to take further steps in this direction'. However, it's much closer to this bill, in our position, than it's in your position. And I'm talking about SYRIZA, KIC and the Change Movement. Other comments were made. Mr Arvanitides says that 'you are going through the Pissaridis report and this bill ignores it'. Really? But here we are reforming the very direction of the Pissaridis report, with local urban plans, with land-use interventions and with a number of other interventions. Mr Arvanitides, too, was opposed to the fine for the Land register. Yes, sir! What do you say? We say that where landmarking has been completed and after this law has been passed and after another six months of the law's being passed, fines will be activated. Excuse me, but Mr. Arvanitides or any other colleague, so that I don't personalize it, how long does it take to remember his property and go state it in the Stock Register? How amazing is what we're asking? And why is 65%, who has made statements to remain hostage to 35% that he didn't do? What for? What kind of opposition is that? The JRC is again opposed to giving a higher rate to bioclimatic buildings and buildings that make energy savings. I really believe that you are the only party in the world that has this position. Wherever you say this, people will stay in the forefront, that 'we do not want to support bioclimatic buildings' in the era of climate change, environmental agony, policies adopted at global level on this issue. In order not to make an exception, Mr Arsenis yesterday, if I listened to him well - I was following from my office at some point - he said that the bill that was tabled at first had a progressive colour because of its interventions in the out-of-build construction project and which was annulled. Mr. Arseni, I think you're unfair to us and unfair to yourself. In any case, the regulation has been withdrawn for the reasons I have explained for the more than four acres, but there is still a series of interventions in the non-building project and in all the other issues that I have said and which do not, of course, deny the nature of the bill. That is why, because you were in environmental organisations, I find you really not in the climate of environmental organisations, which, however, is not the control of the New Democracy. We haven't had them put them in this way. In any case, because I have spoken for too long, what I saw from the debate here and from the hearing of the bodies is that the majority of the bodies, precisely because the government consulted, explained, correctly studied this bill, were in favour. Don't hide behind your finger. They were in favour. Of course, there were also some who objected, but we know the political life in Greece, to understand what the climate is. What also became clear was that earlier positions that, at least in theory, were formulated by the Left for spatial planning, urban development and the off-project construction on the substance were forgotten at the altar of an extreme vote. That's what happened. Well, we give you the vote. We give you the contradictions, we give you populism and we keep this great European reform. The draft law on the modernisation of spatial and urban legislation is a deep section, a major reform. I am pleased that I have personally contributed to this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Minister. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Manolakou, who had already raised a point on behalf of the other rapporteurs, that the Bureau is dealing with it. We will see now in the course of the circles, because so far we have completed the first of four Members of Parliament. As you can see, there will be a series of positions of the parliamentary representatives now. I announce that the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mrs Perka, and then the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Heitas, and as they request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u172	At the moment, I cannot give the floor to any rapporteur, but only to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u173	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Famelle, don't take the microphone. There is no staff, and I consider that to be my case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u175	On behalf of the Rules of Procedure, you are...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u176	Mr Famelle, sit down and read Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure. Every day, please, everybody. The personal matter is judged by the President and lies in whether he has been abusive to persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u177	Of course, there was a hurricane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u178	There's no staff, and that's where it ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u179	Keep showing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u180	There's no staff. Only if there's any reason why I want you to clarify, if I don't understand. I understand very well. Mrs. Perka, would you like to speak? Come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u182	I judge - I told you again, read - that there was no staff. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, how far are you going to go about anti-democratic methods?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u184	You have the floor, Mrs. Perka. You want to talk? I'll give you the floor, start with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u185	Are you going to fade the MPs and the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u186	Personal topic doesn't exist. The President shall give him the floor on personal grounds when something has not been understood. I realized all about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u187	Congratulations! And higher!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u188	The different positions of the parties are not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u189	Is democracy like this, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u190	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u191	Congratulations, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u192	Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, as far as I am concerned, what the Minister said is a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u194	You don't have the floor either. If you have a parliamentary representative, he can speak to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u195	Everything is completely false!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u196	Mrs. Perka, if you please, you can express Mr. Fömello.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u197	He lied in our mouths! He's a hybrid! It's all messed up at the Ministry of the Environment!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u198	Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, once again I am concerned if you do not understand or if you do not understand. I would consider it very honest of you to make this calm and serious political dialogue here, to come in and say, 'I am trying to put some order in the world and to favour some interests'. There were ways of saying this and talking about it, because - and I will tell you at the end of my speech - investment in the way you are going to go about them does not go any further - we have an example, I am referring to the Greek - without planning, without planning. And now you start giving gifts. Except that it's unfair to the public interest, I answer in your sense. We have partitioning of the right to the surface, so you get in the development areas the right to ownership and you come with an amendment today - in addition to the Presidential Decree, the Staff Regulations, etc. - and give a chance to unify the hotel, these famous condo hotels, which also interfere with the ownership of the development areas intended only for tourism and recreation. Gifts, gifts, gifts! It can't be done! And don't make fun of us if you understand. If you don't understand, I forgive you and I'll try to explain it to you. First, you talked about progress. So I say to you that this bill is anachronistic and anti-environmental, of course, and very much behind the timely debate that is becoming European, which we need to monitor, in relation to the contents of sustainable development and the 2030 agenda. It is run by anachronistic perceptions of the design of the space - land and sea - and, obviously, it does not respond to the current challenges that these interrelated crises create with the impact of spatial crises. And I'm talking about the climate crisis, the health crisis. These aren't in the bill. It is also unscientific, however, because it undermines integrated design, which is completely undone by a fragmentary, where appropriate, design of the specific framework and projects, which suddenly predominates everyone. It is therefore also undemocratic, because its provisions concern few and certainly not the small- and medium-sized strata or the non-project experts, and many photographs are also recognised. In any case, they promote design that reproduces and primarily intensifies disparities in spatial and many inconsistencies. And, of course, it is counter-development, as specific sectoral, unconnected policies are imposed on each other, on the integrated regional, spatial and local planning, and this link between spatial and urban planning is not strengthened. I have told you that this is a subject that, only in technical terms, you show it and people today may not first understand what we are talking about. But there's a science behind it. Or I told you he'd be out of here. But let's see, since it's all this, what, in our opinion, is serving this bill. Minister, you have made a process of copying, changing expressions, definitions - that is what you have done in the law - which intervenes in the design to serve only one purpose. In our opinion, it serves BSE, SETE and other major economic interests, because you close their eyes and tell them, "Your design prevails over all the designs, all the others". It's covered, but we saw it, as a lot of people will see. It is, in fact, what we say, that sectoral planning is dominated by the local, which is more participatory, more democratic, which responds to the needs of the region and not to the needs of the activity. And, of course, we also have the special spatial plans, which you will recall once again that they prevail. All the major economic players - because they are national-level sectors - regulate tourism, industry, logistics, mining - are very pleased. That's why you're strengthening them, doc. On the one hand, they become more binding than regional and, on the other, broaden their scope, take objects from the national spatial strategy. Basically, the draft law provides planning for town planning, which has terms and rules, has a regulatory role. But spatial planning has strategic directions and is a model of spatial development. You are also putting a coordinator - and this is very interesting, because, you know, this committee will be next to the public administration and will define the directions and priorities of the type of tourism or mining or industry - and a structure and will circumvent all the existing structures of the Ministry, a parallel government outside the hierarchy, directly to the Minister. Today, of course, we have seen that you are also making a central structure. And the argument was heard, 'I make a structure...' - I go to the next - '... and actually I entrust the supervision of private scholars from a register, because I have no employees'. And I come and ask: How are you going to operate the central agency? You're hiring. Why don't you strengthen these services to work with the public, which is very serious and ensures the public interest? You've let them desolate. So there will be these evaluators too. You are not telling them'supervisors' because the power of supervision belongs - fortunately - to the public, and you cannot tell them that. They'll be there, however, and they'll direct the plans. We know how it's done. The representative of the EMCDDA spoke very well about 'a rotating door'. In other words, auditors and controllers will interconnect and change roles per study. A year and a half now, your government - not to say what we are doing - has frozen a process that was mature, with financial, studying. And why is he doing it? To demolition the municipalities, take them into municipal units and rename, in essence, the design in local town planning. This, however - and this is very important - is a political issue, because that is what we call 'population of the municipality'. There will be some areas of project privileges and some without a plan. Inequality, inconsistency and customer relations. You remember how it was with the mayors, which area will start with the plan. Now the question will be which area has a plan and what does not have a plan. And if we think that only 20% of the territory has a plan, you know what's gonna happen. Now, you told us, "The Left always said..." etc. I'm trying to explain it because I think that's what you didn't really understand. Of course, the Left has always said, or is abolishing or limiting the off-set project, and that is what we are saying now. But that is not a wish. So this is done with some tools, these tools that create an equitable access for all those involved in every place for how they plan their place. Therefore, the debate on non-projects should be shifted to the need for treatment with integrated spatial planning everywhere. That's what we tried to do with the thirty-three local villagers you stopped for a year and a half now. And you are now bringing us provisions that are actually depriving us of the public nature of the planning. What we said about planning culture, produced and supervised by public administration, goes for a walk. But you said one more thing, Minister. You said you abolished the derogations. You don't remove them. Another target is the derogations, while horizontally reducing the building coefficient for housing, even for hotel units, tourist complex accommodations suddenly have favourable arrangements. And I would remind you that you have taken care of a previous bill and Law 4685 to change some definitions. These changes are not innocent. There the complex tourist accommodation first appeared. Mr. Economou, I will also give you information that even within the definitions of the bill, you do not put it on the organized receptors, because it is not an organised receptor. Because it's not planning, it's a project. We don't do SICs with a presidential decree, but S.H.I.E.L.D. and I.E. It's a play. I know who you want to help, but I'm telling you to hear them, and the Minister told us before - who told us what would happen to our islands. And he does not understand that with this very article we are touristizing our islands with complex tourist accommodations and increased rates and smaller acres. You can't deny that, that's it! [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over by Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Apostolos ABDELAS]] Otherwise, off-project construction actually accelerates it, because in two years' time they may even be extended. I don't know what's gonna happen there. What matters is that in the transitional provisions it says that people can now go - whoever is in this category - to get permission. And how to get permission when the S.T.E. came itself. his case-law and he says that municipal roads can no longer be confirmed with the mayor's paper, but a system and a planning of his local road network must be made. So they can't get permission, and I don't know what's going on with the approvals of archaeology and forests and whether we'll have a new generation of arbitrary forests again. For the banks, listen now. This is where we're fooling around. It calls for the Technical Chamber of the country, we, the entire opposition for a long time now for the regulation of the arbitrary. You refused. Suddenly, the only ones who will be entitled, of course, to natural disasters - this is probably for deafness - are the banks. Because you say that the banks, like the heirs, do not know that they were arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u200	Well, heirs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u201	The heirs didn't know. But other people who have the same case may have inherited it over the past decade, too. They still don't know. No one knows any minor frustration he's got in his house.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u202	We're not talking about arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u203	Okay, in class five, but don't interrupt me. Hold the time, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u204	Please, he's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u205	Now we're kidding. Here you have another charisma in Article 104 - I will rip my degree - regulation. It says that a more floor can be built for static reasons as long as it is not inhabited. I'm a political engineer. To come by a scientist and explain to me how a floor additionally can contribute to static adequacy. I will say a few things about the amendments and we will come back tomorrow of course. For the amendments we have tabled: ladies and gentlemen, when our country records a negative record of human losses every day, we must, as a minimum, consult with democracy, transparency and understanding in the critical situation. The success of implementing any measures, of course, requires a climate of confidence. Mr. Petsas also gave it to us, but after admitting that he was lying about the parallel case logging subsystem of the EGE, which cost 800,000 euros to the Greek State and, above all, deprived the scientists of these necessary tools to be able to rule on critical decisions. So, after these revelations on parallel platforms for actual epidemiological data and the number of daily tests, we are reintroducing the amendment so that the minutes of the Committee of Experts will come to light. We believe that this and strengthens the parliamentary process, but also the people's confidence by diffusing information and scientific documentation, and let the independence of this scientific body be reflected. But since you have everything well burned, why refuse this post? This recent fact, however, is added to a list of tragic government responsibilities in managing the health crisis, which have led to these dramatic developments in the collapse of the ESS and the total loss of control over the pandemic. And I am talking about responsibilities and not about mistakes or omissions. The fact that there was no time lost, that there was no need for the ITHs, that no orders were made, that there were no recruitments of doctors and nurses, prescriptions, more tests, and Mr. Petsas said so: "To keep money from being thrown away." And that's a political choice. It's your political idea. Because when the pandemic's good enough, what are we going to do to the doctors and the reinforced NSA? The private sector serves to provide its services, it is understood after the crisis and it is meant to be unmistakable. Isn't that what you planned before a pandemic? And so neither an intake, nor an ID, I mean until the pandemic breaks. Of course the budget comes and confirms it. 600 million less will be given to health, as if the crisis were going through and no more money is needed for health. Therefore, in the same context you have no sensitivity to reconnect electricity, natural gas, water, internet. Kids take lessons without power and internet at home. We have said that we are also reintroducing this amendment and we ask you to support it, so that we do not get back to the times when we lost human lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u206	And we're finishing with her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u207	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u208	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u209	And this inertia is surprising because all European countries. That's what they've done. You haven't paid the doctors' newspapers here. You applauded them very much, but it's not enough. Six months of unpaid overtime! Another amendment. And, of course, people with disabilities who experience the effects of pandemic more strongly and in OPEK, there are three and a half thousand applications for pre-school unemployment benefits. Another amendment for these. And we continue tomorrow with your own amendments, which will really be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. And as we are in Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Constantine Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution and then Mrs Fotini Bakadamma from Mera25. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Ministers, sometimes people who communicate with us and with me on the Internet say, "Well, you say, Heta, but where do you say it? Where?’ What can I talk to you about, Mr. President? The voters say so, the people following us: 'Good speech. Where do you say it?’ See you for the world. Actually, we don't talk about colleagues here. I don't mean the ministers. See you more about the world. Because the bill was analysed and I think that the Greek Solution always explains why it is voting for or voting against something from the rapporteurs, you will allow me, Mr Secretary, to go into some of the issues that the Greeks and the Greeks are called to deal with and deal with every day. And these are topical issues that will concern us. A huge issue which will be on the daily agenda of each house, in every district, in every city and in every village, whether we want it or not, is the issue of vaccine and vaccination. I read a few hours ago statements by Mr. Petsa, the Government Representative. The title on all the news sites is: ‘Successive and free vaccination’. I'm glad. We are pleased if he is volunteering. Will it be voluntary, though, or will you go in other indirect ways? And I will start with this because this is a very important matter and it must be made clear. Look at this terror. ‘Vaccine passport’. That's a channel report. I'll put it all in the Minutes. It's how they explain to the world to convince him that he has to do the vaccine. I mean, do the vaccine because first, you have the passport to be released. Secondly, ‘health passport’. Thirdly, “The privileges of the vaccine: Freedom of movement, concerts, cinemas”. In other words, those who do not wish to be vaccinated will not be able to go to the cinema, to a theater or anywhere else. Fourth card: "The privileges of vaccination: airports, restaurants, bars". You'll cut our food and our wine, that is, if you don't do the vaccine. We're talking now! That's your argument. ‘Digital immunity identity. Digital Health Card’. These, when we submit them in the Minutes, we do not do it for sight. Take a look. We'll be in here long hours. Is that the way you're trying to convince people to make the vaccine? Are you trying to convince them of the terror of the media and not just? It's really awesome! To leave the media and go to the Council of State. A while ago, he doesn't have an hour, he made the decision. Constitutional, then, the deletion of children from children's stations, if they are inconsistent! What's that thing? Is vaccination voluntary? What kind of voluntary vaccination is that? If you can't release, if you can't eat, if you can't see a theater, if you can't take your child to the nursery, what kind of voluntary vaccination is that? Make it clear and tell people the truth because that's how you're confusing them. There's anguish in the world. There's insecurity, there's a doubt. It is not absurd what Greeks and Greeks feel. The whole world feels it. If some of you are more prosperous to do, hello. Can anyone choose what to do with their body? Are we going to have the right? Already in eastern Macedonia, four children were sent away. I am referring to the Council of State and the decision to delete four children from children's stations because they are incomplete. What can we say now? To figure out where we are and where we're going to get there! You know, there's absolute irrationality. Some people send number 6 to their cell phone to ride, bikers, take the mountains, and well they do. Tomorrow in committee on the penitentiary I will inform Mr Chrysochide of these incidents, because it cannot be the Minister's fault for all of them, because there are also bad ones in all professions. So there cannot be some who are head hunters - I say that, openly! - Officers. You can't cut 1300 euros fines on a woman who wants to report an attack and went to the police station after 21.00 p.m. You can't impose a fine of EUR 2300 on a hunter who tried to hunt alone. You can't impose a fine of EUR 3300 on a grandpa in Corfu. We had also brought the issue to Parliament, EUR 900, a threefold fine for a seven-year-old. You've turned police officers into head hunters, but at the same time - here's the inequality, here the world goes crazy, I'll show you fresh pictures today - on Fisher 68, in Athens we have over a hundred and fifty people. This is an NGO. Every Thursday, he's sharing free food. I am referring to 'Goodwill Caravan', to these good Samaritans, who, against many thousands of euros, sell humanity. Look at this image. It's from 68 Psaron Street, and it's today. I'll put it all in the Minutes. As you will see, there are no security measures, protective measures, masks, nothing. It's a cuff. But you impose a fine of EUR 3500 on Grandpa, EUR 1600 on the lady, EUR 900 on the seventeen-year-old girl. That's what people see and go crazy. I told Mr Metarakis yesterday that he came to pass a shameful amendment to the Greek Parliament that gives the right of our country to use its camps and its public buildings to record illegal immigrants - incredible things, while we are all living - you are evacuating. I told him yesterday. He sinked a boat and we had dead. What was that boat in there? People who illegally entered our country. So, what flows have they stopped? I'll tell you what flows. I'll put it all in the Minutes. 'Aegean Boat Report', we do not see that. Take them to read and see the photos. On November 29, we had three boats with fifty persons, on November 30, we had a boat with twenty - seven people. On December 1, we had a boat with thirty-two people. On December 2, we had a boat that sailed with thirty-two people where we had nine dead and nine missing persons. On the afternoon of yesterday, we had another boat with thirty - five persons. A total of seven boats with a hundred seventy - seven persons. Let's go to the last week on November 23nd to 29th, we had seven boats with thirty arrivals. The population in Lesvos, Chios and Samos is seventeen thousand three hundred sixty-two. What's this? Can you tell me how to understand? Did the streams stop? Wherever you go there are no safety measures, no masks, no traffic wherever you want, and at the same time the poor Greeks have no food to eat. I don't plunder because it's the truth. The poor Greek is locked in his house - and there is no one here who disagrees with what I say, I cannot believe that there is someone who disagrees - and eats fine if she goes 21.05 or has the mask under the nose! These are crazy things! I shall close with two important points, Mr President. We had said it long before 17 November. We'll say it today. Because we see a plan similar to 17 November and while all this is happening with the world closed in, we do not believe to see any marches on Sunday on 6 December. We do not want to believe, Minister, that we will have any steps - we will see Mr Chrysochidis tomorrow in the committee that we have for the penitentiary - on December 6, which is for Gregopoulos. I read that the Greek police are on high guard. They say it will follow the same plan that followed on November 17th. If that plan follows, we screwed up. 'Cause there's been some kind of march, and it's all happened. We call it now, respect at least the Greeks and Greeks who have been through a gulghoul locked in their homes without shops, without money, without businesses, nothing. Respect these people and sit in your homes. In conclusion, I would like to speak - I would like Mr Hatzidakis to be here because he has had the sensitivity previously and honour of this - for the Greek Children's SOS Village in Filiro. I will not say this because it is my constituency - for God's sake and for the Virgin Mary - here we are talking about innocent souls, for children in Fileros Thessaloniki. It was said by the President of the Greek Solution earlier and by the way, that the Greek Solution does things without advertising them. And food has gone and everything will go. Minister, this children's village hosts thirty-eight children and needs immediate food and heating. The Greeks united, we always succeed. There is already a great deal of mobilisation through social media. Everyone helps to get to these kids and not just to them. The representative of the Association said yesterday that the state subsidy - and here is the point we want to see with Mr Hatzidakis - was reduced by 90%. That was said by Mrs Helen Danielidos, who is responsible for the SOS Children's Village. We need to see it. It's a sin. That can't be true, if that's true. If that's the case, we can fix it immediately. We're not talking about it! This is not a political matter. They need money, fuel, food and much more. Whoever listens to us really helps. However, as well as the institutional role you have, Minister, see why - and if so - 90% of the subsidy in the SOS Children's Village has been cut. We have to save these kids. We are! Because if we wait on the sensitive NGO cards, where there's no shorts, their hands don't put it! That's where we didn't see them go outside to share food and masses, as they do every Thursday. I didn't see any NGOs sensitizing themselves. So let's do it. We owe this to these children, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the bill I would like to continue - I would refer to the point raised by the previous colleague, the Greek Parliamentary Representative, and to refer to the vaccination, since yesterday's colleague, a Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, asked for the other parties to be placed, so that our position could be known. First of all, we all understand that this is a crucial issue which concerns us all. The debate has already begun, and it is very extensive. I'm going to steeply mention - to get into the piece of the bill - what we've said in the first place as Merra25. We do not think it is a personal decision whether or not to be vaccinated, as it directly affects the social as a whole. We believe that vaccination is an exemplary example of public good, of a good which is naturally affected by both individual interests and peculiarity. Surely in any model and way we come up with and choose to convince our fellow humans we should not use any forms of threat to those who do not want to be vaccinated or naturally move on to violent, forced implementation. We believe that we should fully safeguard the status of the public good involved in vaccination, while at the same time fully informing the citizens and we ourselves as elected representatives, helping to strengthen confidence in scientists who have unfortunately several times like now, in the midst of the pandemic, worked. It is understandable that, several times, the dissent that we have even seen among the scientists, who are also watching television shows and not just, raises doubts on the citizens. That is why we must - and it is a role that falls on us, and if you want a debt that we have - convince the citizens, of restoring the credibility of the scientists, and of course, of discussing now - because we have also seen various reports from the government - a full vaccination plan. The proposal - and I will repeat it - of Mera25 was to create spaces that are now to be used to carry out tests, then as vaccination areas and then at a later stage to be given as primary education facilities. It is time for us to now function for the first time, perhaps from the start of the pandemic, rather than firearms in the second year. I will now come to the bill we are discussing today, the bill of the Ministry of the Environment on land planning, a bill extensively - with very many aspects that our speaker and partner, Kriton Arsenis, analysed. My speech today will focus on an amendment that we tabled as Mera25 and a comment on a ministerial amendment brought by the Minister earlier. Our amendment concerns the relocation of the polluting industries which are now in Keratsini and Drapetsona outside the residential fabric. You know - and I will share something like that, because I am a MP in Piraeus, Keracini and Drapetsona are a key part of my constituency - from the first moment after my election, beginning to see the local issues that I want to deal with and need to be raised, the existence of polluting industries was a primary one. It is a daily life extremely bad, that people really experience not only Keratini and Drapetsona, the wider region. The austerity, especially when we have a good time, creates an unbearable situation. The studies we have in our hands and have been published - not only do we - from the Aristotle University, the "Democritu" but also the "Observatory" show that pollution is present, it is not a rival of citizens' imagination. Both benzene and odourless carcinogens released are also present. We are living at a time when we are hearing - and it makes sense - references to the importance of public health, which is why we have all supported the health measures of the pandemic. And I come to ask: are we finally deafing and not listening to the voices of the citizens of Keratsini, Drapetson, but also to the whole of the second Piraeus, who want industries outside the urban fabric, showing them that their health is worth less for us? Does our indifference show them that we consider them to be second-class citizens? Of course it isn't. It is our duty to defend and take care of the health of all citizens as a whole. It's, you know, ladies and gentlemen, extremely bad to live in an area or visit an area where children can't get out at their school yard, they can't play, they can't go to a playground, because dysosmia is unbearable. Old people can't take a walk in the park when we get back to our normality like they couldn't have done before. Workers can't go to work. Because, after the korondovirus, we all wish to end this soon from the pandemic - the 'OIL ONE' - which is one of the main polluting industries, will continue to be there and will continue to pose a lasting threat to people, both for their health and for the quality of their lives. Will you tell me, Minister - and you will be absolutely right - what SYRIZA has done in the years in which he has been in governance? Did SYRIZA, in his own photography order, not bring the law that has come to give room for these industries to develop? Isn't he an accomplice to crime? I'll tell you you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, it is a situation that began and continues. And don't believe me, don't even believe the findings if you don't want to. A walk down the streets of Keratini and Drapetson will convince you that everything I say is true. You will see the dysosmia, you will see people suffocating and unable to breathe. And now is the time to act to cover up and correct a mortal mistake. And away from me and out of this theme any micro-political feasibility and targeting. Let us show that we have the necessary political will, while remaining ideological and party lines and strangles. To put an end to an issue that threatens life, you know, not only to the voters of Mera25. It is not only those who breathe the benzene, all the inhabitants of the municipality breathe it, whether they vote Mera25, either KEY, SYRIZA, or Change Movement, either Greek Solution, or New Democracy and not even the residents of Keratsini, that experience it all the 2nd Piraeus and all the Piraeus. Air pollution in this sense means that it is not a local pollution that lives here. Now is the time to put an end to the relocation process. So I would like to ask you a call to be accepted and supported by all of us, so that the New Democracy can also prove that they are standing next to the people, putting their health above all, even though they should conflict with interests that want to preserve their industries, but also on the part of SYRIZA, a proof that he corrects his own mistake. Let us finally stand by the citizens. Let the second Piraeus stop being a warehouse and a backyard of Attica. Let's give the residents a healthy and better tomorrow. It's fair, it's got to be done. Before I close, I could not go into another very serious matter, which also concerns my region and is Schisto. And it is what you bring with your amendment to Article 4 - the addition to the other provisions - the temporary placement of a VMS including the Schist. Efforts, unfortunately, by taking advantage of the peculiarity but also of the special status, as the area to be located as an SMA is located in Keratsini, but property belongs to the Municipality of Piraeus and you are attempting to legitimise something that Piraeus Municipality is now doing illegally. Of course, the garbage collected in the DMS will be transported back to the Race. But I think I've heard from you. Piraeus II and Keratsini will not become the backyard nor the garbage dump of Attica, no one will become a dump. The pandemic, unfortunately, prevents any reaction. And it makes sense because of the measures, but absurd because of what you bring. You will find us, but you will find all citizens in front of you in what you are trying to do. Keracini will not be a dump for anyone, Mr. Maralis, and no one else who wants to make it that way. Honestly, tolerance is over. I would ask you to now withdraw the provision, which will in any case be cancelled in practice, because the garbage has no place in Schisto. And I will end by returning to our amendment, which concerns the polluting industries and the 'OIL ONE', with a request, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you not to see the MERA25 logo that exists up, don't even see my signature. Do not allow ideologically strong ideologically not to let you support something that is so perfectly fair and correct. Look at it as a step in defending and restoring the interests of citizens. Look at the eyes of the people of Keratini and Drapetson who are on us and waiting for this step. We are all accountable to the citizens, who are presently represented. We owe citizens both Keratini and other regions their lives and their health back. Let's not dump the Schisto. Let us listen to the screaming of citizens' agony and not the voices of interests. Let's bring back the smiles and the kids' voices, but also the optimism for a better and healthy tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mrs Pipilis has the floor, via 'Webex', for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, if I had the opportunity to be in the Chamber myself, I would have stood up and conquered the Minister, Mr. Kostis Hadjidakis, and only he dared and said that the bill abolished these outrageous, outrageous sailors in villas and not just. Unfortunately, I applaud him noblely. I also heard Mrs Perka and I have only one request. The upgrading of misery and necrology in political terms - because I heard it remembering the deaths of maggots about ten years later - one means that they have not realised that their policy was condemned in 2019. Let's go to the bill now. If a citizen had been following all these endless hours the committee for the debate of the bill and listened to almost all of the Anti-Population, he would have the impression that Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, went crazy, the Deputy Minister Dimitris Economou, went crazy, that we both went crazy and brought us a bill that we need to vote on, which is, in fact, a bill that destroys this wonderful country that was created in all previous years, where everything was in order and order and brings a bill with "cotches". However, because citizens are directly interested in this bill, they have realised that it actually brings changes that are mainly related to small properties, the property of each average citizen. It is well known that I am not a statist, as it is also known that I am fighting, as Mr Hatzidakis quite rightly said, the state of the 'Soviet-type' type. But all of us in our ideology, what do we want? We want a strong, serious state that, when it brings a bill, will become a law 'and dogs tied up'. Why does society react to what? In the case of laws, however, they do not apply. Why am I saying that? Because I have heard, for example, the SYRIZA rapporteur vanquishing and falsifying the government that the Ministry of the Environment, the relevant Ministry, will not be what will determine the rules to be applied to them by everyone, the municipalities, the regions and the regions, and that he is removing rights from the municipalities and regions, because he wants to impose them this law that sets them order and order on planning and town planning in Greece. Why am I saying this? Because we know very well that the old prefectures, the municipalities and the mayors had created monsters. Let me just remind you that the municipal authority itself, along with its technicians, drowned the world, because the city hall collapsed, because they had built it on streams. So let's get a few things straight. The laws are for everyone, and the state is expressed in the strong bills of the serious government through the relevant ministries. The bill in general, which of course I am voting for, personally reflects the policy of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to become Greece at last the proof of the implementation of the tripartite: urban upgrading, environment and development. Let me remind you that we are all envying the environment and land planning in Italy when we go on holiday. But here I hear that most of the opposition wants to continue this disgrace, this chop-up construction with building in the off-planning areas. It is a bill that personally touches me and feels absolutely right, because I was fighting for the greatest possible wound of my constituency, the first of Athens, which was the catastrophic neoclassical. Finally, it is deed with the legislation that the mere owner can take advantage of, find money through the law in order to be able to exploit, maintain his property. I should like to stress that it extends more generally to the cultural image of the city that Athens is actually. And to say this here, because I hear things from the opposition, that we bad guys are now giving them all to the banks and the funds. Aren't you telling me anything, all the fabulously abandoned little traditional preserver in Attica Square or in Kythnos Street or in Naxos Street, or anywhere in Kypsel or in Patisia are wealthy, are they bank ownership? So we don't go crazy! It's the Greek who inherited them and could never exploit them. I address those who hold - and they are desperate - maintainers. Now, with the Digital Earth Bank, the area you couldn't have - because it was maintained - in height and width, you will be able to exchange it with money, in these areas that will enter municipalities, banks, individuals, engineers, architects, investors, so you will receive money and you will be able to maintain it. Then the law comes and tells you the following. Immediately, for you, the town permits will come out. You won't be embarrassed, you won't be practicing. This real estate of yours may be, by law, a hotel accommodation. Now let's go to another matter. It is the abolition of the timeless austerity of expropriations at last. I've had a lot of experience with the municipality. It was a very nice trick to supposedly show the municipalities work. What did they do? Remind the older ones of Dimitris Bey, Mayor of Athenians. What did he do and laugh, as a young journalist, then me? He took a sign, went to a plot, put the sign "To expropriation, nearby square - playground". Poor landlord may still, in much of what happened, not have found his point. Now he finds it. Does he say "do you want, sir, do you want to do playground and square?" Good! You've had eight years. You'll find the money first to expropriate it, because that's how it's supposed to be, so it's all over the world - and if you don't find the money, or in eight years you don't have the plan, immediately the plot or the orbited staircases - another festival, especially in the center of Athens - will come back to the owner. So the bill ends this hostage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u216	Are you finished, Mrs. Pipili?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Mr President. I do not want to abuse time in contrast to many of SYRIZA's colleagues. That is why at the end of the day I will say the following. I want again, Minister, Mr Dimitris Economou, Mr Secretary-General of the Ministry, and Mr Bakoyannis, who so much have been working with the administration of the Ministry, lawyers, etc., to adopt my appeal in the form of a provision to stop immunity throughout Greece, particularly in the Municipality of Athens and in other central municipalities, which are trampled by the occupation of hiking streets, where citizens cannot pass through all occupied hikes. To bring in a provision with clearly greater fines for the arbitrary occupation of public spaces and, above all, for the imposition of strict sanctions on municipalities if they do not apply respectably as provided for in the law on minimum length and eighty points, for pedestrian crossings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. This issue concerns you very much, you have asked it. The reason for this is the Senate MP of the New Democracy Mr Anastasios Hadjivassiliou, via "WEBEX", for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's spatial and urban landscape, unfortunately, is not an honour for our country. With only a few exceptions, it is distinguished by a general anarchy and a lack of respect for the natural and the urban environment. Today's picture is the result of chronic diseases, and responsibility is burdening not only those citizens who have been dissatisfied, but also the state that in many cases in the past has unfortunately made the wrong eyes. Today, then, this bill gives a courageous solution to problems of decades. The word spatial planning regains its true meaning, i.e. that of class in space. Clear rules are therefore in place in building, in what and where one can build. So we will be able to save our environment, our tourism, the image in our cities and our villages. Besides, the rules are not only protecting the existing value of citizens' property but also creating added value in their property, because the whole environment is gradually being upgraded. Now, then, everyone will not be able to do whatever they want without giving an account. The old mentality has led to the violation of our forests and the unregulated construction of mountains and camps, with a climax, of course, of the maritime areas in the tourist areas of our country, where huge arbitrariness has occurred. So Mr Hatzidakis' bill is based on the logic of development that respects the natural environment. We want this development, and in order to guarantee it, the urban order is necessary, it is necessary. One of the flagship interventions of this bill is to limit the non-constructive nature of the project. The anticipation of a reduction in non-project rates and the gradual reduction in plot construction under the four acres will save the Greek countryside from the unregulated and uncontrolled construction, and this concerns us, the inhabitants of the province. The coastal tourist regions are clearly the priority areas where unfortunately great arbitrary phenomena have been noted, as I have said before. All this, of course, as the Minister said, will not be done automatically. There will be a gradual process without surprise. Besides, the pathogenesia of decades cannot be solved with a magic wand in a moment. But the current government proves that it is not afraid to take action and believes in reforms without asterisks and without footnotes. We also support the development of entrepreneurial activity in the organised industrial areas and in the business parks, i.e. the organised receptors, where construction factors are increased. The goals are two: First aim is to protect the Greek countryside and our natural environment from uncontrolled placement of business and this is very important. The second objective is to create conditions more investment-friendly. Everyone will now know where and under what conditions they will be able to develop activity. With rapid and simplified approval procedures, demarcated business parks will form the basis for economic development, particularly with respect to the environment. I also see that an increased rate of building is being given to environmentally friendly buildings. So the state today shows the way to the future of construction. After all, energy buildings benefit from the first and foremost the tenants because of the low energy costs, but then the environment generally benefits. The transfer of a build-up factor is also being institutionalised to finally settle a long-term demand of the owners of resident buildings. In essence, we respect and promote the real estate and cultural heritage of our country. The Ministry doesn't stop here. It gives a solution, as Mr Hatzidakis said, to the problem of eternal rhetorical expropriations, facilitating thousands of owners throughout our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the bill is a great success for local town planning. As the Minister explained earlier today Greece is covered by local town planning plans only in one fifth of the territory. The plan provides for the development of such projects in tourist areas by 2023 and in the rest of the country by 2028. It has been heard by many that local towns are threatening property. That's not true, it's not accurate. The existing legislation will apply to non-projects that are larger than four acres until the final local town plan is adopted. When we have pieces of less than four acres, there is a transitional period of two years and another four more years that lasts the licence. Therefore, anyone who wishes to build today has plenty of time ahead. In the meantime, local town planning plans have even the Balkan countries, which are much poorer than ours. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close by saying that today is the World Disabled People's Day. So let us all think that people with disabilities in Greece reach 10% of the population. One out of every ten people in the streets, in school, in the shops faces an additional difficulty in their everyday lives. The Mitsotakis Government has repeatedly demonstrated its sensitivity to the issues of MEDIs and today's bill finally updates the legislation on accessibility of all citizens to the buildings of the country. The issue of accessibility is above all a matter of culture. It is our duty to support disabled people. It is our duty that all of us do not feel excluded. This bill shows that the New Democracy Government has people with disabilities very high on its agenda. Then, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidis. The speech has been made by MP Corinthia of the New Republic, Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Viliali, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to place ourselves on a key draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. It is of key importance for the country's development path and especially for the liberation of our country's productive potential. We are to be placed in order to modernise the country's spatial and urban legislation, i.e. for a structural pillar of achieving long-term sustainable development through balanced economic, social and environmental operations. As a political engineer, and indeed in the free market for the past twenty-three years and as self-government for thirteen years, i.e. fully understanding the gravity of this draft law, you will allow me not only to deal with the hopeless effort of colleagues, especially of the Officerial Representation, to claim that at this difficult juncture, pandemic, there must be, if possible, a moratorium on the parliamentary process. Of course, such proposals, which conflict with what my colleagues have said some time ago, have ceased to surprise us. Our fellow citizens know that all this is part of SYRIZA's overall effort to make a political point on a health crisis, in fact fearing the next day, the day after the pandemic, when there will no longer be anything essential to contribute to building the development process, except, of course, the well-known laundering of others. Yes, we're being told of a sale by those who gave up most of our national property for ninety years in the superstition. But that's enough. We tell you again that, as important as dealing with the pandemic for the protection of public health and human life, it is just as important the next day, the day after the pandemic. This day must find us ready, fight to raise the Greek economy and heal the wounds that the pandemic leaves to many social groups in our country. And you can be sure we'll make it, because the Greek society trusts us. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a common place for all of us that a country's spatial planning system is a multiplier, both economic and environmental protection. And yes, the success of the proper interconnection of both these objectives is both necessary and feasible. Effective, complicated, incredible delays in the design of the site and its uses prevented and hinder the process both private and public investment, while not achieving strict and clearly defined environmental protection. As a man who has served self-government for many years a more typical example than local town plans I cannot find. While we knew that with local town planning plans municipalities will acquire an important design tool that defines land use, construction conditions, but also urban planning areas only 20% of the country today is covered by them. In Corinthia two GPS over the years, one in Corinth City and one in Velo. And we're not the exception to the rule, unfortunately, we're the rule. Here comes the new bill to heal the most structural element of local development with modern conditions of sustainability. By 2028 there will be local urban plans throughout the country, we will have the largest plan to draw up urban plans, and even with funding, which will not be charged to the municipalities. At the same time, a large group of scientists, particularly engineers, who know very well that today they are struggling to heal the wounds of a ten-year crisis, but also those left by the pandemic. Furthermore, as a political engineer, I am delighted to see the results of the relevant legislation in previous years, because many positive steps are being taken towards tackling incomprehensible overregulation, which is prevailing in the sector and which is certainly leading to bureaucracy. And, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it leads to signs of opacity, arbitraryness and hostage. The new draft law updates the building regulation, speed up the issue of building permits and strengthens their e-commerce process, and the activation of the electronic identity of property buildings has been progressing since the beginning of 2021. We're moving on to simplify land use. The national land use nomenclature shall be established, the land use shall be harmonized with relevant SMRs and the categories of environmental authorisation. I will not talk about business parks, maritime planning, the transfer of building coefficients, temporal expropriations, the provision of incentives to enhance the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises. Today is the World Disabled Day. We are sending a message for equal access to all appearances of everyday life in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are releasing both the national and the regional and local development process from the blockages of a spatial chaos, which often prevails in our country, and eradicate the grey areas that cause insecurity to the owners of property, but also lead to an environment of disinvestment in whole areas. We have in front of us a plan that takes account of the new models of housing and business development and defines the scope by putting in its middle a strategic choice for the model of the development process and in this area, namely sustainable development with a green sign. We are strengthening the pro-investment dimension of our actions without resorting to the so-called urban and urban pollution of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, spatial and urban reform is not just a reform, it is at the heart of the development model that we are visioning for Greece of the future and we are doing so with an absolute consciousness of the enormous comparative advantage that our country has at every end of it and, unfortunately, it has to date remained untapped. Why don't you tell me that you don't agree with me that we have a huge coastline in Corinth with a view to the Corinthian bay from Corinth to Derveny, or to Saronic from Korfos to Korfos with incredibly beautiful plots with amazing views that have a market value of ten times more in foreign countries. The Greek space in which we live has a huge value that has not yet been attributed to the extent that it should and in the way it should be. Greece is worth it, it's our home and we can live better at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Succuli. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, you can hear from us on the Internet is self-evident, however, as much as is self-evident that when we talk about growth, about wealth production in all countries, especially in a country, such as Greece, with the geographical particularities that we have started from the position that we are talking about a central development issue by discussing, by legislating, regulating spatial planning issues. It does not mean development or development plan of a country from which national spatial planning is lacking. The position of authority is this and this position is, of course, a principle position. I cannot find in the political dialogue a voice that has said the opposite for decades. However, every time the person has the legislative initiative he proposes this position to see if his or her legislative child serves that principle or if he does not serve it. And the crisis, the assessment and the conclusion in this regard are finally given out of Parliament's court in the day-to-day act itself. Just having regard to the past experience, Members of Parliament, having regard to the case-law of the courts, can give some thoughts, including estimates of others which are uncertain, other than those of which they are certain. And because we are talking about certainty and possible uncertainty, Minister, there are too many parliamentary amendments, which, if you do not tell us what you will be acceptable to us today, then there is to all of us, the more experienced, the uncertainty that some will be accepted at the last minute and we will not be able to put them in place, we will not ultimately know what the draft law is, which is being passed and whether Mr Hatzidakis has started his speech, but also all the parties share it, I mentioned it starting. These amendments which many of them are majority Members, such as Mr Vlachos, include two of our Members. I shall start with that, but it is a bit inconsistent for us to know where we are going, because the amendments which are accepted at the last minute produce other draft laws than those which the House is discussing. So, by making this start on this very sensitive subject, I will talk about our two amendments. One is Mr Kamine's, which is very serious, concerns non-interconnected islands, obviously energy, where used wind turbines can already be installed. And I say in advance, Mr Economou, that I am not an expert on your matters, I can just read them and, above all, I can read the case law on matters with which you are an expert. Well, as long as I read this amendment and look at it and discuss it with Mr Arvanitides, I consider it particularly serious and correct. On the basis of this logic, and not of the need for special knowledge, I assess, as such, the amendment by the Members of Parliament, Arvanitides, Goka, Katrin, Pana, Konstantopoulou and George Papandreou, according to which, as you say in your technical vocabulary, you cannot now call on the services to delimit the stream which has been settled. I mean, it can't be. The explanation that I think results in a very characteristic simple way is this: The arranged stream of how you will delimit it after it has already been settled, that is, has it been done legally in this regard? So that's what you need to see. We're asking you to see it. We are now going to two of the sections of the draft law and of the many amendments. It was well said by George Arvanitidis, "You are a ministry of land planning, environment and amendments". Many amendments put Mr Hatzidakis in his draft law. Since I do not have time, I shall refer to two sections and one amendment. And if anything left over from me, I'll try to get the floor and tomorrow to fill in my position. For the spatial planning of my party's position and my own I mentioned it. The party I have the honour of being, PASOK, has offered to the country that, when it was taken over, was really unreserved from a spatial point of view. But too many problems have actually arisen for decades. You are right to say that we need a national spatial plan. Yeah. And Arvanitides told you: and with the rest, the peripherals, what will happen? Does it have your own central spatial planning binding legal power? Your own law in Article 3 says it doesn't. You stipulate that he doesn't. What does it matter, in addition to the general guidelines given by the Ministerial Council? Because that is the competent body as provided for in Article 3. What difference does it make? Because we understand each other in this Chamber because we know each other in this Chamber because our experience is great in this Chamber, I wonder - and no rhetoric I do not ask myself - what does this non-legislative national planning matter? In fact, when there are approved spatial planning for many regions of the country. I welcome it and say it about some parts of the country. Because I personally know two of eastern Macedonia and Thrace adopted in 2018 and it is law. I am the secretary of the Committee on Development in Thrace, and I have included it, Mr Economou, in my thoughts and my proposals. What development will Parliament propose when there is a spatial planning legislated since 2018 that is defended by the region, all the political forces of the region and the majority of today and we as a Change Movement and also those who adopted it in 2018, I mean SYRIZA as a previous government? This is where I'll add Crete. Twenty years, he says, there's a time range for spatial planning. How will the national plan be harmonized? It will be thirteen regionalities that make up the national or the work that the Council of the present government has to do, and from what I see to the next governments, because this ambitious draft law takes time and as I read it, it has a lot of bureaucracy underneath it. So my experience says it'll take years. How will all this be assembled together? As we told you in our report, since the concern for environmental protection is specific and the Minister has dealt with the relevant argument, why for sixteen months that you have been ruling the Environment Inspectorate, do you keep the department of the Ministry to which you are currently heading? I am therefore concerned about an unseen benefit. And I express them in the name of knowledge. And I don't know how you can hear me, but so far I, listening to my words and having a picture of my presence in the House as a parliamentary representative of the opposition party, have not resorted to opposition populisms, I am not exaggerating, I speak as much as I can in a balanced manner by exercising the duty for which my people and my party and I have been here. I repeat the placement of Arvanitides, that the draft law has several positive provisions. We'll vote for them. In fact, because I have followed the formation of one under Article 85, you have a very good intervention for a change in Article 17(1) of Law 4495. We're not unreasonable. I'll see you right, and we'll vote for them. But we must see whether the title of the draft law, the aspirations of the ministers and the positions of principle expressed in this Chamber are served by the specific provisions. Now, in order not to be foolish, what has occupied Greek society for months has been the off-planning construction. This off-project construction makes citizens in the Chamber listen to what we say. Mr Economou, I assure you that where I hear a minister talking about reforms and institutional changes I say that I too am a politician and as a human in this debate, I am part of this debate. Because in the years I was a minister, there was no ministry I went through and I didn't make specific and giant reforms. Where I hear the Minister speak and say about reforms, I was there too. But let's see what the conflict is with what is in the field of non-building policy attitudes, which in a way the draft law which you have tabled contains provisions that want to regulate and take a position. One authority position and one in the outside structure: the citizen will become the protector of the environment. He will help not to burn the forests, not to destroy the environment. That's why he'll be a shareholder, a socialist. The debate here concerns the four acres as an exaggeration. But there is also a contradiction. The adversary says: 'No, except for a project, only an organised project can allow for construction'. And they come experts and say: protection of the environment with the organized plan, firstly, but also, secondly, less cost, no sewage systems must be built, no hiking should you do, if there are a lot of housing, no waste policy, nothing to do. What position are you taking? You take a stand in favour of organised outside construction. You're serving her? I can hear the rapporteur saying: yes, but two years. For two years after the publication of the law, the current ones apply. And here we go into the matter of prolongations. I present the article by Dimitris Melissa in "Kathimerini". Rarely, Minister, I testify because we are tiring people for papers that no one looks at. I'm too restrained to load the House Services and finally the House's paperwork facility to make the smart guy here in the House. But this is a text which contains the derogations case law, which is very useful. And I am thinking, in view of the case-law that is recent by the Council of State, 2016, 2017, are these derogations considered justified or unjustified? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Kegeroglu told you that the two-year period applies to the person who has been able to apply for a licence. It gives you an institutional guarantee, which I hear is very sensible and serious. You won't rush, so you don't disturb your data and there's legal insecurity, to en sure those who had designed. That's where the other guy's gonna tell you. And I wanted to do the day after tomorrow? The extension of the two years will also bring about another extension, but two years later. And we're going to reason for the out-of-plan construction that's been arbitrary. This is the road. I see it in front of me, Mr. Economou. That is why I wonder: is Mr Hatzidakis right, who said what he said earlier in his speech in the House? Is he right to criticize us? We have said something about NATURA and it has become what we have said. Can he turn to us and say, by making a characteristic move, that we put back and leave the country unprotected environmentally? No, he's wrong. Because we are asking questions, doubts, concerns. And where the Minister is a reformer in words, but it is not in practice, we are trying to show how and why we are criticising this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u224	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u225	Do I have to go? I'll go. From us - and from me personally - irrationalities you will not hear. People won't hear me talking from the receivers on their TV and they'll think we're at war. To be upset, to be moved and to cry from the Step of the House, to grieve that the devastation of the planet is coming, which I see, but not you, I am reasonable and you are the irrational one. No, it's not opposition. It's not Opposition! I put forward elected doubts, concerns and possibly objections. I would therefore like to see at the end of tomorrow's sitting what will have been produced as a creative reason for us to end up in the end, but also those who are listening to us, whether you are reforming or not. On matters relating to the amendments and sections of the draft law, I am, Mr President, looking forward to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. We'll go to Mr. Kalamatiano, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, World Disabled People's Day today. Our people with disabilities ought to think of them every day. We must prove ourselves in practice to remove the many difficulties they face every day. We call and strive for their rights to be exercised in equality, dignity, autonomy, accessibility, education, entertainment and sport. Mr President, within strict lockdown - for the citizens, of course, because we have seen that the Prime Minister is not in breach of the rules - the government is once again choosing to pass a bill that opposes both the institutions and the citizens. The responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Energy lies with access to water and energy. While accounts are being interrupted today because of the intolerability, in the pandemic, the government shows no interest in taking measures in favour of the weak. It is really inhuman to beg a parent to cut off its current one hour later so that his child does not lose his class of teleinstruction. It is inhuman in these circumstances to deprive basic goods of householdity. We have tabled an amendment to ban the closure and reconnection of the current, water, gas. Unfortunately, the government has so far refused it and condemned our fellow citizens in absolute poverty, in a completely irrational way. I now come to the draft law. You call it a so-called reform, but it is not only modernistic. The aim of the bill is, on the one hand, to satisfy the interests of the few, the elites and the impairment and questioning of rights and property of the citizens, the public and the municipalities. The bill is full of taxive ideas and obsessive findings, lack of vision and goals for spatial planning and sustainable development, highlighting sectoral and reformal changes in titles or modification of paragraphs. At no point in the bill we see a holistic approach, a comprehensive strategic planning. On the contrary, we are seeing fragmentary, point-by-point interventions, with uncontrolled effects on the space. In full implementation of your priorities, the provisions of the bill relate to and benefit only the financially sound ones once again. Under no circumstances do small and mediumsized strata benefit, while some are photographic. On the other hand, they promote, reproduce and enhance spatial inequalities. You clearly promote the downturn in the public sector and, by extension, the public interest in the private sector. Measures are currently being taken throughout Europe to extend and strengthen public structures and services. The government, in the completely opposite direction, reduces public space and privatizes. The aim of the bill for simplification, acceleration, clarification between spatial planning and town planning is not achieved. On the contrary, yes. Simply shortening the time of the procedures does not mean simplifying and speeding up. According to the bill, the Minister will decide on the contracting authority for local town plans. A technical secretariat is indeed established and designated as coordinator, which may come from the public or private sectors. It refers directly to the Minister, apart from the administrative structure of the Ministry. This means in fact removing powers from the municipalities, controlling the whole process from the central administration and introducing outsourcing. At the same time, however, we also have an attempt to privatise specific public services and responsibilities, while removing the role of municipalities and local society. There is no support for the public sector, which deals with spatial planning. On the other hand, the Ministry, municipalities, regions, decentralised administrations are weakened. At the end of the day, it is very likely that civil servants will be forced to sign studies, which will be controlled by individuals. I now come to the flagship provisions of the bill, in your view. The alleged abolition of the off-site construction project. It is, though, isn't it? Clearly not. Not for the big estate. Through the bill you allow building in the big pieces. In fact, you also increase construction factors in some tourist facilities. The choice of abolishing derogations for small areas of property - seven hundred fifty and a thousand hundred squares - has a specific social, economic and environmental sign. In fact, you are blackmailing the rapid construction on the derogating plots, leading to depreciation of small and small property. You are pushing the owners in the derogation areas to issue a licence in two years and to structure in the next four, with a threat of banning construction after. This will force small and medium-sized property owners to liquidate their property, as now, in crisis conditions, no one can easily build. Restriction of non-building is, first of all, correct, but conditional. The planning, forest maps and the Land register should first be completed. But you have stopped the forest maps process. On the other hand, the arrangements proposed for tourist facilities are particularly favourable to the extent that they completely deny the effort to limit the off-site construction. The building conditions for hotel accommodation define as minimum completeness the eight acres, but a multitude of exceptions has been introduced from the general rule. The construction factor is escalating, but is increasing for various cases. In conclusion, the bill contains arrangements to the detriment of small and medium-sized property, overthrowing urban planning. It does, however, a gift to the interests of the great-host, to the detriment of the environment, which fuels Greek tourism. There is clearly an unequal treatment between small and large property. This would have negative economic and social consequences, as the property of the citizens is drastically reduced by depreciating the value of small land. Minister, we do not want to keep the batter, as you have wrongly said in your speech. Your prolongation, which has been ruled for decades in the country, has sought to create a mess in the town planning. We want rules, and we have proved it with our administration. You, however, demonstrate that you want to serve only the very big and depriving of the rights of the middle-aged and small, in the name of a so-called set-up, but from which you exclude the few, the elite. This is your understanding and practice. I now come to an issue that has caused great excitement and concern in my county, Elias. With paragraph (d) of Article 138 of your bill, which fortunately withdrew, you would abolish the transitional provisions on centralised building on high productivity land without a transitional period. There are no high-quality maps in our country. The parcels are characterised by local rural development directions. The process is extremely time-consuming, while the criteria are extremely strict. As a result, all areas which are exploitable are mostly characterised by high productivity and cannot be structured for uses other than purely rural. This is particularly happening in my county, Elias. Large areas of the prefecture are already limited in their use, according to the IOE. With the abolition of the provision, any investment of a purely agricultural nature would be frozen. Uses of tourist, industrial and craft industries would be abolished directly. In our prefecture 80% of land usable outside the project is potential for high productivity agricultural land. With this provision, if you did not withdraw it, every possibility of building would be abolished, but also of modernising, extending and maintaining existing enterprises, suspending or canceling final investment projects. In conclusion, Mr President, I would stress that the bill is another anti-environmental bill, following on from the previous bills of governance of the New Democracy. Unfortunately, in a year and a half, he has done so much damage to the environment, which becomes irreversible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Kalamatiano, I, too, thank you and apologise for not saying that you are a member of the Elijah Prefecture with the SYRIZA party when I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u229	Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u230	Mr Simopoulos, elected in Thessaloniki with the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, must we all answer a question: is the Ministry of Energy and the Environment a development ministry or a technician? In my opinion, it's developmental. But it certainly worked in a way that the Ministry in question turned it into a weapon against investment for four and a half years. And the government, the Ministry, is coming today, continuing a policy that has started for a year and a half, to bring a bill that is developmental, but also environmentally friendly. That is why I am not being lured from professional householders. There are, of course, professional economists in our country. In the name of the environment, therefore, every effort is being reversed, even those who are moving in the right direction, which also take into account the environmental factor, which is the right balance. We therefore have a bill which, not only favours investment, but also deals with issues relating to the daily lives of citizens, and that is extremely important. For example, daily life is the transfer of the building coefficient and the Digital Land Bank. It's a daily life that has to do with its economic level. Dailyity is the possibility that we give the holders of preserved buildings. Dailyity, too, is, when we get rid of citizens, from the hostage of rhetoric regulations and rhetoric expropriations. It is not, therefore, a bill which concerns many and large investments. It is not a bill that hides interests within it. Because when the Opposition - most importantly the Qualification - does not have to talk about this, it always does 'witch hunt'. Here we have reached the point of hearing from the opposition that we refuse to vote on the regulations on bioclimate buildings, which concern the daily lives of citizens. Investments, as I said, do not only concern complex tourist accommodation that was allowed to be built, operated, established in our country in the government of Antonis Samaras from 2012 to 2014. It is a regulation, a possibility which has brought too many investments. As a general rule, complex tourist accommodation - I do not want to speak by name - obviously and fully cover all environmental decisions, environmental laws and environmentally friendly ones. I now come to the outside structure, which is also the flagship reform. But who doubts that's moving in the right direction? I hear criticism from all sides, which is, as a general rule, a criticism: 'Let us see the glass half full.' And I'm explaining. Some people want to be abolished here and now. Others don't want the transition period. It is only those who say that there should be no regulation in this direction. Now, with regard to the transitional period if it had to be combined with urban plans, the future will prove. I absolutely believe that we will actually manage the timetable established by the government to implement it and to have town planning and thus the objections that we are actually creating a problem for very small property. So at this point, the future is what will prove to be right. I understand some objections from some aspects. But the future is that. I would particularly like the representatives of the smaller parties in this House to have a little lower tone here. Some representatives of Parliament, even at the level of parliamentary representatives, are talking as if they had the absolute truth, as if they were 40% or 50%. We must make an opposition, it must be militant, but let me believe that they do not possess the absolute truth and that the rest of the House does not know what it is legislates, what it does, in which direction we are going. Many proposals have been tabled by many colleagues and I believe that some of them will be adopted by the Ministry's political leadership. There are also many proposals that I see in a positive way even today. I think he can come back later, in a few months, a new bill. I am not in favour of blaming multiplier projects. In this way, with a puzzle, if you like, we create that structure that allows us to go forward. The multi-brands which are accused of being stitched and do not move in the right direction, often move, and that is why the previous government, in wanting to go into an integrated intervention, actually did not go far enough, with problems dating. That is why we are coming today in a situation where we see them in this House for too many things and issues to claim that they did not succeed. The same is true of urban projects. It has been shown that it was essentially a drawing on paper, it was a decision of their own, without prior consultation, without any signatures being made. You will tell me that they have been claiming for years that there is a plan to become Venizelos subway with antiquities, without them being seconded. I inform you that these studies do not exist, they have not been signed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what SYRIZA does about this matter is a regular tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u232	Finish, Mr. Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u233	Finally, Mr Secretary-General, I believe that the permanent request from the inhabitants of the Municipality of Paul Mela and the Meteora, which, together with other colleagues, I have tabled as an amendment, will be accepted. It concerns dwellings built before 2011, houses whose plots the municipality wants to grant for consideration, of course in accordance with the provisions of the Act on arbitrariness and after a decision by the Metropolitan Council of the municipality and always according to the requirements of the Council of State. It is an intervention - together with others I have made and notified to you - which I think you will take into account and possibly a next bill and others, those that you will not be able to prevent in this bill, as is probably the possibility of houses being built not at a distance of fifteen metres from the thresholds, but, for example, if it is a ground-based building, it can be with ten. That's how we make it easier for the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Zabeck Hussein has the floor for seven minutes from Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I raise the issue of the bill, I would like to convey the climate from northern Greece and especially Xanthi, wherever I am. Once again I would like to express my gratitude to the health staff, who is our guardian in battle with the pandemic. Our neighboring counties, like Drama, suffocate. The reference hospital of our region in Alexandroupolis is trying to cope with 100% completeness in the IF beds. Even the Hospital of Xanthi, although it's suffocatingly filled, from what we learn, is trying to cope with the needs, despite the incomplete staff. Unfortunately, however, cases and deaths continue to increase. At this juncture, in which we cannot stay afflicted, we see that not only the citizens have quarantineed. Unfortunately, our own democracy has been quarantined. Social rights are trampled daily, while those at the wheel of the country remain unavoidable. Thus, citizens of two speeds are being created. On the one hand, we have the great social majority, which keeps the measures and is struggling every day with the stress of survival and on the other hand, who are at the wheel of this country and impose measures and quarantines, and yet they themselves are above what they are putting themselves. In this context, there is also a bill, which concerns very serious issues, and which we are called upon to discuss with speaking and distance limitations. As a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, we have from the outset called for a stop to co-legislation on matters that are not related to pandemic, so that we can discuss them in smooth conditions and with the attention that is needed. On the contrary, the New Democracy has served in the last few days to legislate very critical issues, while it has still not regulated the issues of the pandemic. A few days ago in our neighboring county, in Komotini, it became known that a father asked for the power cut to be postponed to his home until his child completes the televised training. The Minister's comment to the media on this was that the provider is a business and needs to find a solution so that it does not harm. In these circumstances with energy poverty at the heights of the government should have banned power cuts and taken steps to restore the problem, not to discuss how private enterprises will reduce their mess. In fact, we have also tabled an amendment to this effect by SYRIZA, for the free reconnection and free supply of electricity, the ban on dismantling electricity, water, gas, telephone and Internet connections to pandemic-affected population groups. I hope for once that you will not stand below the circumstances. The government is coming today and characterizes the bill as a great reform for the environment, for property, for development, while doing exactly the opposite. This project breaks down and delays spatial planning, creates inequality in off-project construction and leaves day-to-day business windows, such as the "ELLENIC FRUYS". At the same time, the objective of sustainable development as set out in the bill is not fundamentally achieved if the elementary integrated design is degraded and fully dissociated from the fragmented design of the specific framework and projects. This opens the way to imposing central directions and policies at the expense of local will, serving best friends and interests. Also, the bill only abolishes off-project construction, since the ban on building less than four acres comes into effect after two years, so it is like giving the signal to build as soon as possible arbitraryly as possible. The environmental sign that you advertise has your bill is nowhere. On the other hand, there is a lack of the climate approach and a clear deterioration in the environment, which also results from increased construction in the high buildings. Of course, we should not be surprised at this after the introduction of your anti-environmental law, which actually canceled the limit of forest maps and the register and compromised all the protected areas of the country after the abolition of the NATURA 2000 sites. In fact, in your bill, we noticed that there is also capital for arbitrary constructions and usage changes. Nevertheless, this law does not cover a chronic problem that we have repeatedly raised and which concerns Xanthi. Minister, here we would like you to pay special attention, because Xanthi is suffering too much. In 1976 the old town of Xanthi was declared, by decisions of the then Minister of Culture, "the place needed special state protection", and in 1995 by decision of the Minister of Macedonia - Thrace was declared to be a resident of five hundred ninety-three buildings in the old town. In fact, they were divided into three categories, (a), (b) and (c) depending on their importance for each category, a different degree of protection and intervention opportunities were provided. For example, category b preserved buildings allow interventions and additions, but only in obsolete additions to buildings. Category c buildings allow additions and extensions without restriction, compositions and even complete reconstructions, while the limitations imposed on the conditions of construction are laid down in their size. This regime exists anywhere else in Greece but in Xanthi, in the old town of Xanthi, where it remains alive, with these owners being the first residence of their owners many times. Due to the old times of the buildings, in many landlords the owners carried out legal or arbitrary constructions to support their buildings or to expand them, in order to make them operational, in many cases, even before they were declared a preserver. Obviously, in cases of arbitrariness, the state must not retreat. However, if the arbitrary construction took place before these buildings were declared as a preserver or for reasons of sustainability, I think they are matters that need to be regulated and a solution found, especially when the owners of these houses are in a dead end with superb fines and orders for demolition of buildings, in these circumstances. I would draw attention to you, as this problem is not only a problem for the owners, who have had the luck or misfortune to have their homes in the old town of Xanthi and to be classified as a preserver. This is a problem for the whole city of Xanthi, since our old town is the ornament of the county and is the most important tourist point with great historical and cultural value. So that this issue is not completely devastated, then, so that the houses can be inhabited in the old city or transferred. In both cases, however, the arbitrary, affluent and their extensions are required. In fact, that's a problem that accentuates the region, all the time of the old city. Therefore, if you want to be proud of reforms in spatial planning and property you could start with just issues of urban sustainability, such as the case of Xanthi. You, on the contrary, choose to bring bills, which are actually disgusting in pandemic conditions, where you have imposed a peculiar pacif for the citizens. In conclusion, I really hope that our country will come out of this adventure soon so that all of us can heal our wounds. And because very soon we will be meeting again to discuss the 2021 budget, it will be time to talk about everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u236	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u237	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. We'll talk about the government's criminal responsibilities in the pandemic. We'll talk about the nonexistent support to the health system. We'll talk about the citizens you left at the mercy of their destiny. We'll talk about the collapse of the economy. And we will talk about the best future that we all lack. The responsibilities exist and must be attributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr Zabeck. You were talking about the beautiful old town of Xanthi. Indeed, she's wonderful. I will give the floor to the Minister. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u239	I take the floor to table another package of legislative improvements. I think it's going to follow another one tomorrow. This has twenty-six legislative improvements. You'll see them. I choose to refer to some. Some concern maritime planning. Some are transitional provisions in the spirit of what the State Secretary said in the committee on non-planning construction, so that there are no misunderstandings. There are some arrangements for the rate, in relation to the industry, because there was a failure. Also, there are some arrangements for the Ministry of Culture and the functions of the Ministry of Culture. You'll see. If I've missed something, we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u240	Will you tell us what amendments you accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u241	Tomorrow I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u242	It would be nice by the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u243	We won't be able to read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u244	I want to see, to have a more comprehensive picture, and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u245	You can tell us tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting about the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u247	These, Minister, will you table them to be distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u248	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u249	From beautiful Xanthi to Mr. Philip Loading, MP of the New Democracy. Sir, Loading, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which we are debating today is a reform for the environment and for the wider urban development of the country. Its aim, of course, is also to support investment, to protect the right to property, but also to introduce environmental regulations. All procedures for issuing building permits and transfer of a builder are initially simplified and the effectiveness of the spatial and town planning system is improved. The legislative framework for land use is becoming more operational in response to the real needs of the economy and society, of course, by facilitating investment. Further, the electronic process of issuing building permits is expanded, solving the hands of citizens and engineers and, of course, strengthening economic activity and flexibility in architectural design. The current government has shown its sensitivity to environmental protection since the beginning of its term of office. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, there is another initiative by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment to prevent climate change and save energy. In particular, the building regulation is being modernised, thereby providing incentives for the ‘removal’ of buildings with a view to renewing the building potential. Moreover, buildings which will be constructed with high energy efficiency standards will also be eligible for an additional build-up coefficient. Particular emphasis is placed on the phenomenon of unregulated construction in areas outside the project, which has been unrestricted for years and has created huge problems. This bill restricts the unregulated outside the construction project, while at the same time strengthening the whole design and structured location, with a view to protecting the environment and the natural landscape. The right to property is initially protected by transferring the build-up factor to specific areas only and by clear rules and then by rationalising the system of rice expropriations. The character of whole regions is thus maintained, while the legalisation of the arbitrary areas is excluded. Let me refer here in particular to issues directly related to the islands of the Cyclades, since our Minister has given us the honour of referring to some of the issues of my prefecture, which have been afflicted for many years with urban and spatial issues. The bill, which we are discussing, prioritises island and tourist regions, as it goes on to draw up local or specific town plans. Imagine that only about 20% of the country has local urban plans, while from the islands of Cyclades, which I represent, only in Paros, Sifnos and Serifos, housing development is done by order and rules. In areas which will continue not to be built, remaining outside of the plan, land use and conditions will always be defined in line with the specific characteristics of each region. Example to be imitated is the case of Santorini and Mykonos, in which, while it has moved on, to a very large extent and unattractively, local operators have already accepted arrangements to suspend the construction of new hotel units outside settlements, until the issue of urban planning is settled. Equally important is the possibility of compensation to owners of preserved buildings by transferring a building factor, which is particularly important to the inhabitants of Syros and Ermoupolis. Extended architecture councils will check the compatibility of the constructions with the natural beauty and their compatibility with the historical nature of the areas and thus create a legitimate and effective mechanism for protecting our cultural heritage. Our Minister has assured us that the preparation of local town plans will start from the areas where there is greater interest in housing development such as in the Cyclades, the Dodecanese and the Ionian Islands. Personally, I have already tabled specific proposals at present in order to remove the serious problems and the blockade in issuing licences, since I have no picture of the legislative improvements that have been put forward as I have heard. They are phenomena that are presented strongly in the Cyclades and especially in the settlements, which are characterized as historic places. I mentioned the need to maintain the traditional settlements of our islands and to protect them. I have proposed the establishment of an enlarged architecture council involving representatives of the Ministry of Culture, which will operate under one stop shop procedures for the quickest service of citizens, and I think there should be an extension of the transitional period for permits up to the completion of local town plans, at least for the Cyclades Prefecture or for some other regions. These are regulations which will benefit the tourist development of our islands and help facilitate the integration of the construction projects to be built. As part of the facilitation of our fellow citizens, the extension of one year, which has been given for the final entries in the Register for the two ninety-seven areas of the country in which the entire realisation began before 2006, thus allowing owners to also escape the designation of their property as an unknown owner. In this way, a consistent request from the inhabitants of the island regions, and in particular the Cyclades, is accepted, which I myself mentioned in my own name to the Minister for Energy and the Environment. Finally, one of the most important for me - and I think for all of us - arrangements for this bill, since the Minister pointed it out, and today is the World Day of Persons with Disabilities, is to strengthen the accessibility of buildings to our fellow people with kinetic problems. It is a part of our society that deserves respect and must in no way be excluded from it either socially, educationally or at work. All the arrangements of this bill, which concern them, aim precisely at this, to facilitate their integration into everyday life, but also in social life. I urge you, together with me, to support and vote in favour of this draft law, the aim of which is to develop our country in both material and moral terms. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Loading. For seven minutes, Evangelos Apostolos from Evia and SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Hatzidakis started his speech using a post on the urban rules of ancient Kythnos that still do not exist in our country today. He forgot to say what is there: a country formed by contractors based on the expansion of the settlements before 1923, many of whom do not even show up on the maps of 1960. This construction, Mr. Hatzidakis, has been served by your own governments. Before you tell me what we were doing, I answer you: We have taken great steps in matters of land use and land planning. We started with the number one project that was necessary not only, but also a constitutional obligation, the drafting of forest maps. What have you given us? Nothing! Although there were ready forest maps for many regions since 2010, you haven't posted them. You left them locked in the forest and forest drawers, because you did not want to show any violations and arbitrariness. We, in 2017, took the decision to move forward and handed you forest maps for 50% of the country and, in fact, for areas with problems, such as arbitrary and non-building. It makes sense to make mistakes in this great effort. Some faced them with the S.E., like the decision of 2017/2020 rejecting the partial sanctioning of forest maps without having examined the objections. It seems you haven't read the decision. All you do is intervene where interests are served. Rescinded by a provision of Law 46852020 and a ministerial decision on forest maps, to remove from them various new categories of land. In the face of this action, environmental organisations have appealed to you. Who do you want to cover behind these processes when the changes in uses that allow the Constitution and the case law of the C.E. Is that clear? They may only be made when it is relevant for the national economy, for the agricultural holding and after documentation on each individual case. After all, all the forest maps will return to the posteriori stage, where the opposition procedure needs to be reviewed. It is a pity, therefore, that such a great project, that of drawing up forest maps, which the SYRIZA government began to smash into the millstone of inertia, and eventually to be misused. On the other hand, the deforestation that you are attempting from public administration, both executive and institutional, is linked to your desire to lead to the sole control of all procedures by your unrealised state of service. You are establishing the National Spatial Planning Council and the Central Council for Spatial Planning and Dispute, which can adopt decisions of an advisory nature, which - he says - should be adopted in a very short time. And as you have already established it as a rule in the service of interests, with the time-limit being short, the procedure is continuing, effectively bypassing the above institutions. So abbreviation of the time of the procedures does not mean simplification and speeding up and decision-making at will, with all that that means. Restriction of non-building as a fundamental principle is correct, but as it comes from the government, it is a fragmentary design and joy of interests, because urban planning and forest maps must be completed first and foremost, but small-scale owners must also be protected. However, it must not escape you that, according to the Council of State, there is no reason to maintain the rules on derogations, because it correlates to the completeness of each field with the face on a shared path. Don't try to avoid it. The S.T.A. will reject it for you. Here may I ask two questions: First, can you talk about local town planning, ignoring the need to prepare geological fitness studies and beyond the geotechnical world? Secondly, can you also talk about spatial planning, without taking into account the need to protect the land of high productivity, which is a constitutional check, but also the specificities of livestock and agricultural activity? And I come to the amendment on renewable energy sources. On the basis of your communication, Mr Minister, you are actually changing the map. You impose unfair burdens on producers, calling on them to cover the deficit of the special account of the RES. You financed PPC to be profitable, with the money of the account and at the same time, you proceed with the imposition of an exceptional contribution. Of course, at the same time, you are exempting large wind parks from this contribution, effectively transferring the burden to small and medium-sized investors. This is an intervention that is disastrous for small and medium-sized enterprises in the area. Mr President, I should like to close with the decision by the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities of Greece, which asks you to withdraw the bill. You did not, they say, take any notice of their views. I thought so. This is the respect you have in local communities and in their self-government function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr Apostleu, for keeping time. And to go quickly - quickly in the third circle of speakers and to give the floor to Mr Athanasio Kavada, the Lefkadite, with the New Democracy party. Mr. Kavvada, you have seven white-haired minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary session we are discussing a bill - a section on the urban and spatial planning of the country. The draft law adopted by the government is based on three lines: the first is the protection of the environment. Secondly, development and investment within a framework that is compatible with the environment. The third is the creation of the conditions for the use and protection of private property. The design should seek the balance point between these three axes, because environment, development and property are not incompatible. We are all aware of the major gaps in spatial planning, which are due to the delay in the preparation of urban studies, the unregulated construction and the multi-teaching framework for land use. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] The most important point in the bill is, without doubt, speeding up the process for the preparation and approval of local urban studies. Since 1976, forty - four years, we have been trying to draw up local town plans. However, today there are only 20% of the territory. For the first time, five hundred local town planning projects will be submitted immediately, with priority in island and tourist areas, including the Ionian Islands Region. It is a major project, totaling EUR 200 million, with guaranteed funding from the Recovery Fund and the European Investment Bank. Local urban planning projects are the basis on which the development process and investment activity will be supported in the next period. With all the above, the time of the twelve years is now falling to two and a half years. At the same time, rules are laid down and unregulated construction by measures such as a 10% reduction in rates in off-project construction and a change in the status of excellence derogations on plots up to four acres. However, this does not mean that the small private property is depreciated and inactivated. There is a transitional period for building permits to use the excellence derogations for off-project plots below four acres. The time margin is two years, without calculating the time needed for the office's or the Archaeological Service's permits, and the duration of the building permit is four years and with the possibility of revision. Therefore, a transitional period of at least six years shall be granted. However, even after six years it does not mean that these properties are devalued. Building permits can be issued on the basis of what is envisaged in local town planning plans. In particular, the simplification of land use is a particularly important element in strengthening investment activity. The general and mixed uses are limited in line with best European practices. An important step forward is the provisions of the draft law, which speed up the issue of building permits. We are entering a new era with the electronic issue of building permits, which has as a feature speed and flexibility. In order to automatically issue the building permit, it is sufficient to submit the dossier electronically with the necessary supporting documents and the necessary approvals. I spoke before about respect that the state must show against private property. Today there are outstanding expropriations procedures that have not been completed, holding the property of the citizens hostage. The self-evident removal of the expropriations scheme is now established if it has been implemented for a long time. Thus, private property that is currently in hostage for many years or will be released indefinitely in eight years at most. There are also many other beneficial provisions, such as for entrepreneurship, incentives to act in industrial parks. The environment provides for a higher rate of building in environmentally friendly buildings. The owners plan to transfer a building coefficient mainly from landlords to other areas with residential development margins. The public space provides for expropriation of floors, as was recently done in buildings that blocked the view of the Acropolis. Incentives are provided for society to facilitate the access of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the bill, Mr President, the trend towards a qualitative shift in tourism is also reflected in the creation of a new category of complex tourist accommodations of four and five stars, including hotels, tourist houses and related facilities, such as conference centres, marinas, sea therapy centres, thermal tourism units, refreshing centres and others. I would also like to focus particularly on two provisions. The first is the extension by one year of the deadline for the finalisation of the first entries in the old pilot register, an issue which concerns many areas of Lefkada. I have here to thank the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Economou, but also the President of the Greek Stock Exchange, Mr Stathakis, for having listened very well to and accepted the request, which I have conveyed to them for the need for this extension, because the pandemic still has many outstandingities in the legal corrections to the original records, not only by individuals but also by public bodies. The second provision relates to non-project real estate. I had brought you, Minister, to you, but also to the office of the Prime Minister, the concern of my fellow citizens in Lefkada for the serious problem, which was caused by the initial deadline of only two years for the construction of buildings outside the project with the existing urban system. Today, Mr Hatzidakis, I must thank you for having responded to the concerns of the owners by tripling the time available to the owners before the new provisions were put into effect. In view of the fact that, in the meantime, you are planning to complete the new local town planning plans and to settle loose ends with land use and shared road networks, I think that you will actually get one order into the problem without affecting either the owners or the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is another institutional intervention of this government with a reform mark, a bill of modern, fair and bold, a bill respecting the right to property, while ensuring space for growth and investment, but also protecting the environment. Because all the above, such as private property, the public space, the 'enterprise' and the environment, must coexist harmoniously within a legal framework. Those who believe in these principles will be voting in favour of this important urban reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mamulakis has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA. Mr Colleague, I would ask you very much to monitor your timer, because you cannot hear the warning bell at the end of your speaking time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law will be a wound to the country's spatial and urban planning, a wound wrapped up with the best of intentions, a wound that has been presented with the most environmentally impacts. Today's law is a law, which will reproduce existing inequalities and produce new ones. It will intensify the construction outside the organized settlements, burden the Greek landscape and damage the existing structured environment in our country. Today's law is a "senton" of amendments aimed at decommissioning the work of the previous government in the fields of town and country planning, without vision and reformist mood. It is likely that a party will find itself today to remind us that the Right is in power and that it should be the reason for the proposed changes. Perhaps the deterioration of universal planning, presented in Article 3, the deterioration of regional planning towards the sector, presented in Article 8 and the submission of local town planning projects - in Article 11 there is the presentation - of sectoral planning - if possible! - promoted by the first part of the bill to be truly all the evidence of a real ideological disagreement between the left and the right. The left is of interest to the public interest and social cohesion. Right she's interested in protecting investment. On the same basis, we can indeed understand the changes that you make, for example, in marine spatial planning. You are baptising, as ineffective, a law which has not been implemented, because the sectoral representatives of the tourism sector, renewable energy producers and industrialists fear that their inspired interests, as reflected in sectoral spatial plans, will be challenged by marine planning. In addition, the general responsibility for prioritising individual sectoral interests is reflected in the number of individual facilities for tourism, as set out in Article 34. There the legislator actually increases the building factors for all new tourist accommodation outside the plan through the window of the energy environmental and urban criteria. Anyone who knows about the market knows that large tourist agencies make compliance with the principles of sustainable development essential for cooperation with Greek units. Therefore, for what is presented as an additional incentive, the basic scenario is, in fact, the main prerequisite for any new competitive hotel unit. The legislator has similar logic and with complex tourist accommodations. Amid drum impacts on the abolition of the offshore construction project, the Minister creates the imaginable concept of small tourist accommodation, as set out in Articles 36 and 37. So, what happened? "Manolius changed and put on his clothes otherwise." However, we can include all of this in the context of a more general ideological and philosophical difference between us. We don't agree, but we understand. However, the focus of today's bill is not the general framework for spatial planning in our country. The focus of this law is the out-of-project construction and the completion of spatial and urban planning, which, with the exception of few, is supposed to be shared, we agree, is a common denominator for all of us. As many colleagues, including the Co-Population, have pointed out in the committee procedure, off-project construction is a Greek patent. The non-project construction is a product of the administrative weakness of the Greek state, but also of the thousands of accumulated purposes of the post-Greek political system, a political system that refuses to place territorial boundaries on the individual economic interests, in 1962 chose to open a window in order to carry on with a legal cloak the practice of building outside the urban fabric. This treaty has been disastrous for the environment of our country and for the landscape of our country that we will deliver to our children, but also indicative of deep mistrust towards every form of 'enterprise', which does not develop parasitic relations with the political power and the parties of old bipartisanism. [[At this point the President-in-Office takes over the President of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS]] What are you doing to limit the off-site construction? You encourage her. You encourage citizens to issue pressurised town permits. The evidence we have at our disposal comes from the local towns and is shocking, Minister. From your initial announcements to date, there has been an explosion in the issue of town permits, especially in the non-planned areas. The reduction in the build-up factor that you are supposed to promote is obviously a pretext. The building-up factor is reduced for farmers and small owners, but it is increased for the main sector that is expanding unrealisticly and without a plan in the non-projected areas. In tourism, "bad" house outside the residential fabric, when the small and medium-sized, "good" house is built when the hotelier sells it to a Chinese investor. Mr. Economou with bosoms, a wicked stateman, Mr. Economou with SETE. You understand the ambiguities! Now let's go a little bit to the local town plans. Mr. Hadjidakis, however, rightly identified the real bet for the completion of the country's town planning on the committees of the bill. The issue, he said, is that local town planning should be developed quickly and massively. We agree to antenna. But let's go and see what you're doing in that direction. Nothing's the answer. What is the major issue of the integration of the country's spatial and urban organisation? The universality of the project and the acceleration - I stress it -! the rate of issue of local urban plans. We realise that this creates a problem. Firstly, the government itself is changing the presidential decree on land use in an unscientific manner, since you are confusing land uses with the SARs of economic activities, as if we do not know that sports activities or green areas do not have CARs. Secondly, you are fragmenting with a previous bill the scope of local town planning, without there being a provision or an obligation on the part of local authorities - the municipalities in particular - to complete their planning. Thirdly, you are setting up a co-ordinator position that will be defined by undetermined and opaque procedures. Nothing else! The funding, to be clear, was secure. The trick, that is, that you still claim that SYRIZA had not found resources, is well known. You also did the same with the "Philodimos" programme. The previous government had agreed on an open credit line with the EIB and because you did not find the money in the cabinet of the Minister's office, you invented in both cases the history of non-financing. However, if the debate were serious and it was not for impression, we would be discussing the best way to speed up the adoption of the Presidential Decrees. Let me close by respecting my time, Madam President, to say something about changes in the law. Mr President-in-Office, I have the best thing to do now for the end. In its position on committees, the Minister said that he would relieve us of a Soviet model of reform - over-regulatory to the building regulation. I would remind you that the existing building regulation was a reform of the second Memorandum on Papademos. So let us assume that the Minister implyed that Mr Papaconstantinou then and the troika were inspired by Soviet perceptions of planning when they chose to simplify and codify the country's urban legislation. So what are you doing in the building regulation? Make significant changes to legalise, without fines, widespread arbitrary construction practices after 2011. It is the so-called 'hidden construction', without fines, without obligations, without penalties. Take all pergoles and create quasi-society conditions. You do the same with the wise ones. Every floor, please, will also be declared as 'rots'. And you legalize one-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. Indeed, all the post-government governments maintained a legalisation window, but under rules of arbitrary construction. With Mr. Mitsotakis there are now arbitrary structures, without rules and without fines. That's the model you're following. Do you remember the Patakus floor? Today we are making clear legislation on the floor of the Economus. Ladies and gentlemen, the nightmares of Orwell are paleing in front of the events of the New Democracy in the field of the environment. Mr. Hatzidakis has invented the double language in the field of the environment. After protecting the environment, by destroying all the management bodies of protected areas, after saving PPC by evacuating tariffs on the market, after you have achieved the country's carbonisation by increasing gas, after you have abolished the legalisation of arbitrarily for bad citizens to legalise it with exactly the same properties for banks - we are talking about Article 28 - since, therefore, you have done all these green and environmentally, it is time to abolish the outside building, creating a construction tsunami - I said it before - in the non-planned areas. Congratulations! It goes without saying that for such a profoundly hypocritical policy you will not find the consent of the Party of Officers Vice-Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u257	Thank you to Mr Mamulakis and to keep time. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Staff Response, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to Mr Hatzidakis' bill on energy and planning issues - crucial and important issues - to refer to the crucial issue of the days of each family, every housewife who lives in anguish and insecurity in relation to the course of the pandemic. The country continues to be in the vortex of this pandemic. The saddest thing I would say is that it has a government that goes away from the elementary reality every day, a government which considers everything to be an image, that the citizens are a multitude of insecure viewers who can be misled forever and forget exactly what is happening around them. These days we are experiencing not only the results of the criminal inertia and the incompetence of the government and Mr Mitsotakis, but also a repulsive one - you will allow me to express - to the wide public, to the average Greek citizen, regardless of political and ideological position, a lack of empathy on the part of Mr Mitsotakis and his ministers for what is going on today by Greek citizens. There are revelations coming that make us even more worried. These show the government's criminal responsibilities for managing the health crisis and make us all think about whether, at the end of the day, the scientific community that you so much invoke it, gentlemen of the Couple, from the beginning of the pandemic - and you rightly invoke it - has had and has in its judgments every day about the recommendations made to the government for the measures to be imposed, the correct elements and in good time the information on the course of the pandemic in the country. I am referring - obviously, you would understand - to what they saw the light of publicity in relation to the parallel system, the parallel recording of incidents on the public platform of HICP, but also on a private platform built at the request of the EGE, namely the Government, since the pandemic had begun in our country, a double record which concerns us, is concerned with the fact that it may have led to an incomplete recording of the overall cases and the result of the committee of scientists who are asked to give its opinion and to give critical advice, to have information that is absolutely questionable both in terms of their size, but also in terms of timing. All this is happening when we record negative records. Mr Mitsotakis has had his government's representative lie, initially denying the existence of a double record and constantly denying for months - so much the representative, but above all the government, Mr Mitsotakis - to make public the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Substances. What's simpler? Transparency! You don't want the media publicity? Do you not want the parties here, in the cradle of democracy, to have access to these Minutes? You know, ladies and gentlemen, if we were in any other country of the European Union, especially in countries with particular sensitivity to transparency and democracy, and a parallel system for reporting cases was revealed and two days after the public discreditation of the Government Representative, and the evidence on this, would we have or would we have no resignations from the competent ministers and all those who have rushed to cover up the truth? However, I think the problem here is even greater, because the responsibility is obviously not for the Government Representative or the Ministers. The responsibility lies with the Prime Minister himself, who has been dealing with pandemic and monotonous personally since the first moment that he is marching on the basis of the Committee of Scientists' recommendations and flying several times and the responsibility for these suggestions. But, ladies and gentlemen, everything cannot be left out of publicity and darkness and silence. People have started talking. They're scientists with prestige. Many of the committee members say that we have doubts as to whether we have reliable evidence. And not only do the members of the committee speak. The Ministers of Government also speak and say 'We went out'. Members also speak of the government majority - I hear lately - and they say that the responsibility for the pandemic's course lies with the opening up of tourism that has been heavy. Everyone is slowly beginning to admit government mistakes, except for the Great Maximus court, who insists on doing as if nothing were happening. And practically what you say to the Greek people is "keep breathing until science discovers and comes to our country", but meanwhile the health crisis is developing into a nightmare of hundreds of people who lose their lives, dead, daily and the situation in public hospitals is dramatic. But the problem - you will allow me to say again - is not just the inability of the government. The problem is not only its ideological obsession with the non-support of the National Health System. The problem is the behavior, you often behave, gentlemen of the government, as if living in another world, as if living elsewhere. A parallel system for recording cases, parallel to the universe to which you give the impression that you are often found both ministers and the Prime Minister himself. Whether you do it because you are aware that by giving state money to the media clearly, without criteria, which is unprecedented throughout Europe, you have shaped an immunity and do not care about it, because you have paid you the syndrome of arrogance of power, or are doing so, quite simply because you write to the oldest of your shoes how the average Greek is going through today, so is this. The essence is one: You take a hypocritical picture, you take a picture of outraged and the average Greek citizen obviously can't trust you. Look at the picture that has come out over the last few days: one minister comes out at a time when the 'FINANCIAL TIMES' publish - and I say this not hail, I say it with great sadness - that the records are negative and that the number of deaths in our country in the last few days per million population is higher than the average of the European Union, even of the United States. At this point one Minister comes out and says 'we go around', the other Minister goes out and says 'what do we do with the ICUs? If we had more, more would die.” And the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Mitsotakis, comes from this one Step and instead of going out and saying that it was an unfortunate statement he gets on him. And from here on, the Step - since you are angry - refers to me personally, with the following words: 'Have you said a word about compliance with the restrictive measures? Have you said a word to encourage people to move less, to keep the measures, to keep distances, to avoid meetings?’ Who said that? Mr. Mitsotakis. And a few days later Mr. Mitsotakis himself appears to break the quarantine, break the lockdown, break the restrictive measures, and without protection measures, without masks making fun of citizens who found themselves on the street. Where? In Parnitha, many miles away from home, when he knows that the average citizen can't do that, and make a motorcycle borrow the machine. This is the picture that makes citizens, whether or not they present it, the media and the news releases of '9'. Because there you have a premiere to call the media and canalarchs not to "play" the fate of the Prime Minister. Premura to call EVO, move to the hospitals in northern Greece to get the clinical chiefs, the private clinics to open up, you don't have to. That's where you had a premiere. But everyone's worst is not that he broke the quarantine. The worst of all is how he responded, how you responded, because he did not agree to answer, nor to come here to the House. The worst part of all is how you responded to this manoeuvre. Instead of saying an apology, you went on top of telling us neither too much nor too much that Mr. Mitsotakis broke the quarantine, not because he writes us in the oldest of his shoes or because he's unconscious, but because he's human, that's why he broke the quarantine. You - and I say this with an absolute awareness of what I say - with these statements by your Ministers, with this attitude of Mr Mitsotakis, you are a government full of 'Ludows' and 'Maria Antoinettes'! You are no longer the government of Athens, you are a government of Versailles, away from the reality experienced by the average citizen! You have no connection to reality. But because you have no contact, I want to bring you in touch with reality and tell you that these images you wanted to hide are images that anger the average citizen, you know why? Because the average citizen has experienced a peculiar autocracy all these days. I am presenting to the Minutes you may be aware of. Thessaloniki, Saturday, November 7th, three fines - three! - in a street musician in Thermi, in Thermi Square. A musician who played violin on the street imposed a fine for not using a mask - why else would he sing? - a second fine for unnecessary movement because it had sent sms for work, while you have not accepted that it is work and a third fine for occupation of a public area. Total 500 euros fine on street music. And you're mopeding without a mask! [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Chania, happy mother in her child’s memorial tomb at cemeteries was threatened with a fine. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Here, Crestena, Elias. Police misery. The valid journalist, Mr. Nodaros: Police officers of the Krestena Police Department carried out checks outside the Piraeus Bank in Crestena, an elderly citizen who went to receive the pension of 360 euros, ate a fine of 300 euros because his mask was under the nose and the man cried. He went to retire 360 euros and ate 300 euros for having the mask under his nose. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Will you ask for an apology from these people? Will Mr. Mitsotakis ask for an apology from these people? Will you give them back the fine you imposed on them? This man will live in the quarantine and without his pension this month. What are you looking at? I obviously know what I'm going to say today is not going to be shown by television stations at night, but the Greek people are listening and watching you. We're not in the YENED era. There are social networks. And those who convict you are not symmetrical are the citizens who believe you are citizens who have voted for New Democracy. And you're swinging the finger for eight months for individual responsibility. With what courage and courage will Mr Mitsotakis talk about again? So I call on you now - I know that you will not say it - to make the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Substances public public. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. Entrepreneurship, why don't you give it to the public, arguments why you're going to vote against it. Are you afraid that a very tough truth of a Prime Minister, who has been ignoring science for the sake of his political aspirations, and indeed a Prime Minister who is in the process of flying even members of science or the committee itself, is revealed? Second point. We have tabled an amendment to stop this disgrace with unpaid on-calls to ERC doctors. The trade union representatives of Attica’s, EINAP’s hospital doctors, by a letter of protest to Administrations I’ and 2’ YPE protest the unacceptable delay in the payment of regular received newspapers of hospital doctors due to untimely approval of a quarterly budget and complain that many hospitals have unpaid newspapers for six months up to a year and a half. At the time of the pandemic, the people you applauded in March are unpaid. So we are tabling an amendment to ensure that on-call payments made between 1 July and today in excess of the upper hour of additional on-call time, as well as the suspension of the 9% limit on the additional on-call rate between now and the end of March to cover emergency health protection needs from the transmission of the coronary. And we would ask you to respond if you also vote against this amendment. And I'm closing up on pandemic issues. There are two amendments to be retabled today. We had them tabled last time, but you voted against them. One concerns you, Mr Hatzidakis, because it concerns the reconnection and free supply of electricity, energy, the ban on electricity supply holidays, but also water, gas, telephone and Internet connections to pandemic population groups. I don't know if you read it. I read it and I was shocked. A parents in Thrace say "keep still an hour, don't cut my current, because the child makes a teleconferencing and has a teletherapy". It is shocking to say that this is happening! And finally, today worldwide people with disabilities, it is not only the wish that will be enough. We are coming back with the amendment, which we tabled a few days ago on measures to strengthen our disabled fellow citizens because of the pandemic. Prolongation to those who already receive a disability allowance for another six months. Granting the allowance to those who submitted files to the OPEKA for the first time. Compensation for the diagnosis in private doctors for fourteen thousand disabled fellow citizens who cannot complete their online file because coronary hospitals do not respond. And the grant in December of a double disability allowance. And we call on you to argue why you are voting against, because you reject these amendments. [[The end of the speaking time of the President of the Radical Left coalition is ringing at this point.]] As you can see, Mr President, I will need, as a result of the topicality, the time needed to put myself in the bill as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u259	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Hatzidakis, you know, it reminds me of this proverb that we found a priest, to bury five to six. All right, our differences in ideological and policies are well known. But in the midst of a pandemic, we're all quarantine, the House is failing, it's the second time you've brought a tough one, to call it a bill, a bill, a bill that you've got all across the street for the second time. Amid quarantine what kind of consultation should be made, how can institutions be mobilised, how can citizens be concerned when their lives are now concerned? And you're across the CCT, too, I saw that he's asking for the withdrawal of the bill. You have all renewable energy producers. And the question is why this is happening again. I will say it because you are again legislating on behalf of a small minority, or else I say it, because you are once again targeting the middle-class, this social alliance that you so strongly attempted to set up elections, the small property, I would say a large part of the citizens in the end. And I want to start with a reference to what has been done in the last seventeen months in the field of energy. We've seen increases instead of fixed power values. We have seen tolerance on greedy-winding, over-winded suppliers in the middle of a pandemic. We have also seen an increasing wave of raging breaks - which is why we tabled the amendment - to vulnerable social groups and professionals, which have been closed down because of the pandemic. We have seen a deficit instead of a surplus in the special EIA account. We have seen loss instead of maintaining public control over the electricity and gas networks. We have seen instead of going toward the climate change of electricity generation from fossil natural gas instead of renewable sources. We have seen a violent, but unfair, endless and ineffective process without a defoliation plan. We have seen investments from a few for a few, instead of strengthening pluralism in production by degrading the energy communities, which was an important step that we have taken as a government since with legislative changes to the detriment of the communities the funding from the NSRF that we have launched has been frozen. In short, I would like to tell you that in sixteen or seventeen months - how many are they? - your term of office at the Ministry you have succeeded in delivering many and significant negative results in a very short time. Your first act, of course, was to increase PPC’s tariffs. You presented it as a so-called unique solution for the salvation of PPC. But so we also knew to save PPC by putting the financial burden on the backs of the households and the backs of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. You increased electricity costs for PPC customers by about 20% and charged society, households and entrepreneurs, with 500 million more per year. The increase in PPC’s invoices prompted consistent customers to flee to PPC’s competitors and had high profits, since PPC has a dominant market position. As a result of these choices, the distortion of competition, the operation of a cartel in the trading of energy, which does not allow competition to function for consumers. The distortion of competition in the middle of a pandemic gave retail prices up to four times above wholesale. Finally, it is the result of citizens paying, on the basis of EUROSTAT, official figures for the first half of 2020, more expensive electricity by 8.38% compared to the second half of 2019, apparently passing several countries in the relative ranking. The financial results of the monthly, of course, announced in the previous days by PPC confirm that it can - and must - proceed directly to reductions in its invoice and not to new increases for which you were questioned and I heard that you did not exclude them in an interview yesterday, I think. Reductions that could also result in corresponding reductions in tariffs for other alternative providers for the benefit of all consumers, households and businesses, as PPC has a dominant market position. But I have the feeling that this is probably the last thing you care about. I now come to the amendment you tabled today, which I do not understand why you tabled it today. You have announced its framework for days, but you have been bringing it to the House on the last day or, at any rate, in the nearest five of the proceedings in plenary, you have not brought it to the committees. It is not customary for the House to discuss press releases, but for tabled draft laws. I don't know why you're late. However, listen to this a little. One of the major issues we were asked to deal with in January 2015 was the huge hole in the revenues of the special EIA account, the bill that pays the RES producers, which had then reached EUR 800 million. But then, despite the unprecedented unfavourable circumstances, we managed on the one hand to balance the special account and, on the other hand, to make it surplus. We have even foreseen a 'cushion' security reserve in order to avoid any account deficits in the future, if I am not mistaken, of EUR 70 million, which had to be maintained under the law. The most important thing, however, that we have achieved, Mr Hatzidakis, ladies and gentlemen, was not to charge the citizens a single euro, households and businesses, with any increase in the specific emission reduction fee for pollutants, the so-called EMCDDA, in the end, what is one of the main sources of funding for the EIA special account, through the electricity account. I would like to remind you that in total the electricity price for households and businesses in the four and a half years that we were in governance has not increased a single euro. On the contrary, it was reduced by 12%, while in the past six years 2008-2013, which we have the data, in the New Democracy and PASOK, that is, the electricity price increased by 60% for households and businesses. We reduced by 12%. And you and the first thing you're doing is go back to my old art sieve, raise the price of electricity by 20% the morning. Let us now go to the amendment which you tabled and have even called it 'Structural and financial measures to support renewable energy sources'. Since when, Mr. Hatzidakis, did you rename them to support? That's charissi, it's not support. It's something I think it'll be interesting to explain. Aren't you, your government, which you constantly talk about investments, which say how pro-investors you are, and that you want to attract investments and strengthen them, and especially green investments in renewable energy? You are now coming and doing it for the second time, because you have done it again in the period 2012-2014 with the euphemism of new deal in the RES in 2014, which you have carved on electricity producers from renewable sources. In fact, at that time, the Samara government was committed that it would not intervene retroactively to the same people at the price of producers' compensation. So tell us: This philosophical interest of yours, where did it go now? The engraving you put hits the entire industry horizontally and mainly affects the small investors. Fifty thousand of our fellow citizens who have chosen to invest life in a small photovoltaic, who have taken a loan from the bank to build this photovoltaic, and who have an entire investment plan with timetables and repayments with this amendment that you are bringing today are in the air. Fifty thousand! Not one or two. Suddenly you're telling them, the so-called investment friends, that's what I want. So is this your credibility to those who have listened to you, to those who have believed your encouragements and invested life in renewable energy? Is that the message of confidence you're sending to those who want to invest in the country in green energy? In any case, is this your middle-class prerogative, which you had made an election flag? But there's something even more oxime here. Aren't you that without any plan, as I said before, you are speeding up lignite by proclaiming the end of lignite in 2023, claiming that this will speed up the transition to green energy? In other words, at the same time that you are putting an end to lignite much more quickly than the country can stand - western Macedonia and our economy, I will say - while you are preparing to turn into a dead zone in Europe the whole of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis - you are coming and going against those who are supposed to cover the energy losses from ligniteification, against those who invest in renewable energy sources. In other words, violent deprivation and engraving on renewable energy sources. Hey, you can't, gentlemen of the government! You've either lost it or something is happening. And you're doing all this because? Because you know very well that the special RES account has been balanced and even received a substantial surplus before your Government and you personally decide suddenly to remove resources from it so that it can be financed in this way that you want to set up on the PPC issue. That's why you're doing it. In short, you are looking against the citizens through the increases in PPC tariffs, you are looking against RES power producers to save your own success story, to cover your own criminal errors in PPC. You are conscious of the small producers and consumers and you are now trying - rightly - to put the blame on the coronary. My associates gave me a statement you've made. How'd you say that? You said that everyone pays for the coronary and they should also pay the RES producers. For your bad luck, however, it had already been announced when you said that the retroactive reduction of EMCDDAAR since 1 January 2019 has led to a reduction in revenue of approximately EUR 200 million before the coronary comes from 2019. So who are you laughing at? Why don't you openly say that the only entrepreneurship in the end that is of interest to you and the New Democracy is the entrepreneurship of commissions, is the entrepreneurship of interactive, hatred and doubling, not healthy entrepreneurship. You are favouring this entrepreneurship - I will say a few words about spatial planning and I will prove it - but healthy entrepreneurship, green entrepreneurship, you have written it where there is no ink. Let me speak. In any case, that is your credibility. Before I say a few words about spatial planning, I would like to say that you have announced that you are canceling any future benefit for consumers from the completion of the interconnection of the islands and especially for Crete. A month ago, however, you commemorated hypocritically for the benefit of seven hundred million euros for consumers from the interconnection projects of the islands that the SYRIZA government launched and supported. What are you doing today? You say that this money will not reduce consumers, but you will eventually cover the 'black hole' that you have created in the special account of the RES. And what else are you doing? You put a green charge on fuel consumption as a special carbon tax at a total cost of EUR 100 million. Who's gonna pay for this? All citizens, of course, but in particular farmers and road transport. Amidst a pandemic, you also predict that you will be charging the medium-voltage companies a total of EUR 180 million from the liquidation of the EMFF charges. Truly, gentlemen of the government, which branches will ultimately pay for this marble? We expect answers, because they are not clear in this amendment. Two words about spatial planning. And here is a violent redistribution. Violent redistribution of land to the detriment of small and medium-sized owners and to the benefit of a few few who will exploit it, a few, either of the real estate or of the construction sector. There are thousands of our fellow citizens - and I say it to record - who have bought real estate, who have paid them as good and buildable some years ago, even people who inherited a small fortune from their parents and have kept it in difficult years with the only prospect of having a piece of land to give their children if they manage and build a home. And now you come and force them to give their land at a price of half. Because that will happen, because you make this land unbuilt, in the name of - allegedly - of protecting the environment. In reality, however, the environment is not protecting it. You do not protect it, as to those who will buy these many small non-building pieces of land and join them will enable them to build at a total higher rate. Once I remember 2015 - I imagine you will have forgotten and will not repeat the same thing next time - you wanted to terrorize the citizens by saying that if SYRIZA comes, it will abolish individual property. And finally, now, you prove that it is the right-wing government that comes and dispossesssssssss the property and brings legislation that is similar to feudalism. You're saying you're putting an end to the off-project construction. And that's a lie. There is no regulation on the abolition of the off-site construction project. Because within the bill you are allowed to build large pieces of four acres, and even increase the building coefficients in some tourist facilities. You are even giving a period of grace by extorting the owners in the off-project areas to be built with a two-year licence and building in the next four with a threat of building a further threat. In other words, in the crisis, you tell them to take off and build. So your purpose is to exterminate the owners of small and medium-sized property to liquidate their property. I now come to something which, in my view, is outrageous. You're going through the authority to place everything in your office, to license, to question boards, to check everything. You're becoming Minister of Over-World. You're going through everything in your office. Perhaps in this way you want to ensure that the work is done for these few who will exploit and go to buy for a piece of bread the useless non-building land of many and will be able to build up the patent of mixed tourist accommodation, making tourist units and making up the expenses for tourist units from selling the houses that will be built there, quickly doing the job. How much work is, of course, another story. Possibly, we'll never know. But the job will be quick. Everything in your office. You know, these are incomprehensible things. No government has ever been conceived in this place, from ‘74 onwards, to implement such things. You are blackmailing small and medium-sized property with the aim of redistributing land to the powerful, and at the same time, you are extinguishing the entire background of the rule of law and the concept of transparency and accountability in public life in order to achieve it. And, of course, you are also abolishing all the positive sections that we have launched. We will be without forest maps - and you have canceled them - you are stalling them - without adjustment of the hay, without streams, without special environmental studies of the NATURA regions, which is 30% of our country on land and which we had launched, financed, proclaimed, as government. Without all this, there will simply be no rule of law. You will also bury this as a victim of the coronary. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state categorically that it is not just that we are voting against this bill. We pledge that these arrangements, a government progressive, a government with the presence of the hub of SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance, will abolish them. And I say this to our thousands of fellow citizens, especially the owners of small land who are currently concerned, because you are blackmailing them for the next two years. We are telling them that we will abolish this because we do not want to strengthen the eagle, but we want to restore the rule of law and social justice and have the possibility for those who own small property to be able to do what is laid down in the law. As far as energy producers are concerned, we will reinforce the energy communities. We will reintroduce measures to regulate and support production, small and medium-sized producers. Because Greece can go ahead and have growth and go ahead only if it goes ahead with rules of social justice and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u261	On behalf of the Government, Mr Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment, has spoken. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it took more than forty minutes to put Mr Tsipras out more politically and to make any credibility even more - if you think there was - of SYRIZA. Its placement itself bears witness to the political existential problem of this party, which remains constantly and with fewer supporters. I have the impression that his current position will contribute even further in this direction. I'm starting with health issues. Mr Tsipras monotona, once again, referred to the issue of recording and supposedly parallel record. It has been cleared too many times, in all ways, that there is only one single register and that the second register, to which Mr Tsipras referred, is a subsystem of the overall system for registration in mobile units. Mr Tsipras has nothing but to ask the scientists in the country who deal with these issues. I have here Mr Syssa and Mr Papaevangelou who deny that there is a problem with the EGE registers. Here, Mr. Vatopoulos says there's no double-book thing in ETA. The infectious ones say it themselves. They say it's the scientists who deal with this matter. Mr. Tsipras because he's not at ease, reality is attacking the very reality. I don't know what else to say. And I don't know why this thing allows itself politically. In any case, it has been the same Prime Minister in this country for four and a half years. I do not think it is worth a former Prime Minister to allow himself to move such methods. Mr Tsipras referred to the management of the situation. You know, even one of our fellow men losing his life is something dramatic. And that's for granted. That's what starts any conversation and any position of mine. In fact, however, there is a humiliation trend on the part of SYRIZA or, anyway, undercovering any problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not claim that this government - like no government - is infallible. But am I true - or not - that we received five hundred and fifty-seven intensive care units, and today there are a thousand two hundred ninety-eight? Is it true - or is it not - that staff have increased considerably? Inside the pandemic we hired about seven thousand health professionals, of whom four thousand will be permanentised through ASP. And is it true - or is it not - that the budget from 3.8 billion before the pandemic went to 4.8 billion today, that is, the 25% health budget? Because you're always lying in this, and you're even outrageous lies. I have here, too, the evidence. The figures are not pleasant in any country. Obviously, they are not pleasant in any country. But it is the official evidence and I quote it. I'll testify later for the Minutes. Greece's ranking in relation to the number of people dead - in relation to the population, namely - in Europe: in thirty-seven countries for which Greece has been data since the beginning of the pandemic it is in the 28th place, i.e. they have worse performance than Greece twenty-seven countries. Greece's classification in the number of cases of COVID -19 per capita, i.e., according to population, in Europe: In thirty-seven countries Greece is in the 35th place. Better performance than Greece on this only have Norway and Finland. Number of deaths in the last 24 hours - the most unpleasant of all: Greece internationally - on a list I have here - is in the 27th place. And, in relation to countries that have about the same population as we do, I would like to point out that the worst performance is Belgium, it is Hungary, it is Bulgaria that has worse performance, it is Austria which has worse performance than the Czech Republic. Mr. Tsipras, after all, said that the media did not express SYRIZA's views and, therefore, obviously SYRIZA cannot find his point and win political points. In this way, I think you're lucky if the media really don't show you. Because if you were put forward to the extent that you wish, you would have been exposed and the fall in your percentage in polling would have been even greater. Equally unfortunate was the personal attack on the Prime Minister. Such attacks are common to us, of course, for Mr. Tsipras to make Kyriakos Mitsotakis repeated, applauded by his then government majority, thinking among you that you had been victorious until July 7, 2019 and actually landed you. And even more you've actually landed with the polls that followed after the New Democracy government victory. It is not possible for Mr Tsipras, whose route is well known, to touch on Mr Mitsotakis, who, in any case, did something that he is allowed to do. Because sport is allowed. I don't know if the same thing Mr. Tsipras had been allowed after the Eye. And you remember the conversations that had been made here about the poor. In any case, after speaking about them, Mr Tsipras decided to come to the environment and energy ministry as a whole. He said a few words at the end, I imagine, about the bill. I had already answered the amendment on the electricity reconnection this morning. I said there's a triple protection framework. There is the social invoice, the COT. There are the measures for the vulnerable, introduced by SYRIZA, and we continue them, and they are progressing properly. There is a universal service, namely the last-stage service, which is PPC, because it is the largest supplier. So there is coverage not for strategic malicious payers, but certainly for the socially weak. You must stop once dogmatically claiming the monopolies of the heart, because you also weighed the world, the middle class and the poorest have turned their backs on you, because you have done, as far as you govern, the poorer ones. I continue with the special account for the RES and the amendment we have tabled. Only Mr Tsipras can see that the problem is pan-European. It is a pan-European one, because these accounts depend on the demand for electricity. The lower electricity demand there is, the lower the revenues of these accounts. That is why we are talking about this in many and different European countries, much stronger than Greece and the Greek economy. We are therefore taking steps to address this issue. What approach? With the logic of weight-sharing. We have announced measures which have four - five different components at the economic level - yes - and one of the components is the contribution of the RES producers themselves by a contribution, which is one and the other, of 6%. But if you'll excuse me, this is the government's practice in general. It applies to the owners of the real estate, who are invited to make a reduction, which is partly covered by the State, either to undertakings or to workers who lose their jobs. This is the policy here and in Europe, with regard to workers who are made redundant by their businesses temporarily and who are covered by specific programmes, but they do not get the full wage. It's the same logic. It is a logic that exists in all European countries. Of course, this position should not be surprised. Mr. Tsipras is a well-known political miraclemaker. So, speaking of that, I should have expected it. Good thing he didn't say more. We are therefore moving forward with measures that are stable. I have two studies here - tomorrow we will discuss them more - which show that the government's measures give an answer to the question of the stability of the account for the whole foreseeable future. In fact, the government's measures are so designed that they can withstand further deterioration of the crisis here and internationally. This in terms of the economic aspect, for which I would like to add something further, because Mr Tsipras has spoken about services of general interest and ETUCAR since 2024. But Mr. Tsipras in all his speech he was dissecting the RES and the interest of the RES producers. So the government comes in and says that the surplus of services of general interest will go to those that Mr. Tsipras is worried about. It should normally applaud this measure. But you will tell me: What do you expect of such a party from such an approach that it has in things all over the last few years? At the same time, of course, we are taking a number of structural measures which aim, firstly, to tackle the saturation of the network, because the network should be able to withstand and, secondly, to gradually facilitate the transition of RES to a new European model of liberated energy market. Because we cannot have two categories of players in the energy market. We respect the rights of the old, and that's why we're taking all the measures that Mr. Tsipras referred to. For RES producers it is all these measures, but at the same time we need to take care to ensure that the market works, so that the cost of energy is also reduced, which the Chief of Staff has spoken about. I should normally, on the basis of what he said in various retreats of his speech, be in favour of this policy. Because this policy, particularly this part of our policy, is in favour of people's interests. It aims at lower electricity prices. That is the policy, which, as you will see tomorrow and tomorrow when we have a detailed debate, is in line with what is being done on European markets and which gives way to the problem of the RES account not only for one and two years, but for much more. This is the notorious issue of RES. And now we're going to the hardest. Mr Tsipras referred to increases in electricity prices, again conflicting with reality. He says something he hasn't felt in his pocket nor the most fan of SYRIZA. Go now and call the members of the Central Committee of SYRIZA to ask them: 'In the last few months that New Democracy has been ruling you have felt in your pockets 10% increases - which he said - in the current?' I imagine all people will say no because they didn't feel it. What Mr. Tsipras said was happening on his own. When PPC's invoices were increased, EMEMAR was equal, for which he previously accused us, and had himself taken down before the value added tax. We say it again and now that this is the truth: there was a burden, we said it last year, 2 to 2.5 euros a month in every household. That's it. It is now invoked by Mr Tsipras in various EUROSTAT studies. In fact, tomorrow we can have a more extensive debate. He's spoken to Mr. Famelos, who obviously lured him. Mr Famellos had spoken about data relating to a particular category of domestic electricity consumption from between two and a half to 5000KWh in the semester. However, it avoided mentioning that all the low electricity consumers under 1000KWh in the semester, which concern vulnerable households, which were supposedly cut by SYRIZA, recorded a reduction in the current price rather than an increase. But we're going through this, we don't care. He came here to move our finger and apologize for that too. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] He also forgets that in statistics, as they come out, something was also described, but he went beyond it. He said: "And you made a retroactive reduction in EMCDDA. In fact, we did since January 1, 2019. All this contributes statistically to the result of the data invoked by Mr Famellos on EUROSTAT. In fact, however, there is the common feeling that I described. He also forgets Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Famelos that, in the first half of 2019, he himself has done the same thing, because he had already reduced PPC's loss of consistency, which we have reduced even further, with a difference: We admit to it, while they do not admit it and represent the fake prosecutors. This is the situation with the unexistent issue of increasing electricity prices which is a little graphical, but what to do? Scriptural matters are raised and we should also respond to them. Then we go to PPC's core. Here was really a measrotragic approach. First of all, the Chief of Antipopulation began to tell us that: "There is a problem with PPC. What policies are you implementing?’ Who told us that? The one who had reached the edge of the cliff. The one who had led the company to a point that the auditor, with the practical consent of the previous board of directors, had said the company had a problem of viability. That's why we took the emergency financial measures, because if we didn't take them, on September 24, 2019 the auditor would say that PPC cannot continue to operate. That's the situation! And today they come and shake the finger to us! Who are we? We're the one who saved PPC from bankruptcy. We are the one who has appointed an administration that modernises it every day. We are now that PPC's share - unless the stock has been conspiracy - has risen four - five times over these months. We are nowadays that the credit rating houses have been upping PPC's creditworthiness continuously. You found, in other words, of all the issues we handle at the Ministry to opposition to PPC. This is a classic murder case that returns to the crime scene! How else can I say it? You criticized us for deprivation. But you started her, by a difference, that you started her without a program. The lignite had been limited to one third compared to 2010, and a large part of it was your own contribution, with the difference that this path of ligniteification was without a programme, without a plan and, above all, without any compensatory benefit for the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Megalopolis, and we have now adopted a package with the contribution of the European Union of EUR 5 billion. So you talk about lignite, that is, the climax of the nerve! He said Mr. Tsipras and a few words about spatial planning. I talked this morning about it. Repeat the placements of his MPs and I understand that. He also talked about off-project construction, that's what he found from the bill. One who did not find it to say or remember is that the left traditionally in Greece was talking about abolishing the off-site construction project. Now we are gradually going, as I have explained, with transitional periods, with careful steps, but in any case towards environmental protection and ultimately ownership. Because if you don't protect the environment, the property has no value. I would like to believe that we are moving forward towards a modernistic progressive direction and that we have the regression party, SYRIZA, which is now by definition the regression party, which is trying to grab noodles - as we say - on the right and on the left, to find anyone with the make news to mislead him. You know that's how you got up to power, but at some point, you're running out of lies and you're not going to be an exception. We were also criticised by Mr Tsipras because we are doing the Central Building Agency. As I explained in the morning, there is a very bad situation with towns, construction services, and we are trying to set up a series. We do not want to be viewers like you who left this tragic situation behind. To tell you the truth, so I don't blame you, there was before, but we're trying to put things in a row. And we say: The strategic investments, the investments of over 500,000 euros financed by the NSRF, buildings that are over three thousand squares and assumptions that are far behind three months in the towns to go to a central agency of the Ministry to unlock. That's a big sin! I'm sorry, we won't do it again. We're apologizing! But, that is, really instead of you asking for apologies for everything you did and didn't do, come and ask me and Mr. Economou to give you an explanation for something that is self-evident? You tell me, you're the one who criticized us for the forest maps when we complete them in two years, and at your own rate, they would go back twenty-seven years. You've been criticising us for the Land register, when the cemetery has been ejected in the last few months that we've been in power. You are criticising us for NATURA when you gave 8 million a year to the NATURA regions, and we now only from the Recovery Fund have anticipated about 150 million for the protection of the NATURA regions. This thing will once write the books. There is a government that has regressed the place, a government that has nothing to show the environment but failures and references to the European Union court, that government is coming to demand the change from us! Ladies and gentlemen, we're not perfect, but we're not who you are. Because you are absolutely unreliable and claim the world cup of grief. This thing will be written by world history. You are a unique phenomenon of populist and pseudo-humanist party throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has been speaking for two minutes. Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. And where to begin! As far as the health crisis is concerned, Minister, the pro-government press came out and revealed that there is a double system for recording cases. Mr Petsas comes out and says: 'No'. They come out and Mr Petsas comes back and says: 'Yes, but it is a subsystem'. The crisis in the Greek people! But first of all, you can't speak of the horror you made Eye and Mandra a point of political gain. Secondly, I told you in my position: it is a matter of ideology. Not one ID or one intake until the pandemic begins. Why? Because, according to Mr. Pecha, that's what's all about. When the crisis comes through, we have the private sector ready to do everything. That's what we were talking about in the House before the pandemic came. SYRIZA in mid-memorandums, with that suffocating fiscal situation, had made ten thousand five hundred intakes of medical and nursing personnel and had gone 30% over the ICU. What are you comparing? And the budget comes and we have 600 million less for health, in that sense, that the pandemic will pass, we do not need after the ESS and in September we will have twenty - six thousand less nurses and doctors from September 2019. These are the evidence. Also, look, you're the minister in charge. I think you should have a problem with the enduro in the NATURA region and not just with the Prime Minister not wearing a mask. Strategic malpractices? Is this father who says "another hour for my child"? What you've done covers a thousand and fifty people, Minister. Six and a half thousand of us covered. Let's go to the next theme. Listen a little. We told you. You have increased the price of electricity by reducing the EMCDDA, increasing the deficit, and now you are moving it to the citizens, to the micro-producers and you are fine. And as far as PPC is concerned, you've always got the wrong data. You told us that in 2014 PPC had 95 million and you forget to say that 70 belonged to IPTO that was segregated. PPC had less than billion euros, reduced lending and also invested 1.3 billion. And cover what you're coming to cover today, ELAP. And he also left a reserve without increasing the electricity price. People know that. And now we're going to liberation, because it's really here that's the nerve. The Prime Minister announces liberation. There's nothing. After a year there was finally a master plan, which took place in some closed offices, without any substantial participation by the social partners. The new regulation of the Fair Transfer Fund describes a step - step by step who should be involved and how to draw up these. What's that? Not the master plan, Minister. The territorial plans for a fair transition and with which social partners. There's downside. And we haven't seen that yet. But liberation is going well! And he says, though, this master plan. Prerequisites for these are land restoration and spatial planning. And I see an amendment now, a year and a half after the announcement. Approximately 2023 has arrived! And now the Ministry's going to make a programming contract with PPC to entrust PPC's competitive procedures to get the scholars out to do the ZAP. What are we talking about? Now, tomorrow, that's all. In 2023 he arrived, ZAP doesn't exist. There's more, but I'll see you tomorrow. I didn't see her very well. Why do you know what the matter is? And here are the interests. It is the development model that says: Two - three businesses, two - three major business operators will make the transition. We call energy communities, Minister. The local society should be involved, involved. These lands - and here we will have a major conflict, probably, as I saw it - are limited to large photovoltaic parks? I'm not saying there's a need for some big investment. I say, however, that a state of modern and European origin creates those instruments of funding, participation, planning, so that both the local society and a start-up and some investors can build on them. No relationship with what is happening in western Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Tsakloglu, to make a small contribution to the amendment he has tabled. How long, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u266	No more than two-three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u267	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u268	In this amendment, real estate is transferred to the area Matti in eastern Attica by e-ECCA to the Municipality of Marathona. The proposed arrangement is important for the restoration and renewal of the areas of Eastern Attica affected by the fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 and in particular for the Eye destroyed by these murderous fires. More specifically, almost a hundred acres are transferred to the Municipality of Marathon. The transfer takes place exclusively for the purpose of operating within the property by the Municipality of Marathonas, a shared outdoor recreational area for the inhabitants of the area and its guests. It will be after assessment, which will be made by independent valuers for this area. The regulation is to the benefit of society as a whole and implements the government's announcements. It forms part of an integrated framework for its direct and effective actions to redesign the Eastern Attica. The Prime Minister himself with his constant visits to Matti had set himself the goal of improving the quality of life of residents, their health, their sense of security and the restoration of the region's forest wealth. In this context, the property is sold under the strict conditions that the destination of the land, which retains its forest character, is not altered first. At the same time, it is explicitly foreseen in the legislation that any management of the area by the Municipality of Marathon will be done by maintaining the entire forest character of the area and improving its forest vegetation. In any case, forest legislation is to be respected and the green balance is maintained in the region. This initiative is part of the social responsibility of the EBRD. The transfer takes place in conjunction with the special urban plan for the new Eye, to create a sustainable and resilient city at the location of the pyroplexed area with the restoration and creation of new green and recreational areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. I'd like to read names. I don't know if it's inside the web. Mr. Chrysomalis from New Democracy? Mr. Gocas from the Change Movement? Mrs. Brysidou from New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u270	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u271	Good, Mrs. Brysidou. You have the floor for seven minutes. Please watch your watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, today's eyes are all about the health crisis and we support with all our forces standing next to the people who are in hospitals and health staff who give their own struggle. However, we must admit that the health crisis is a difficult situation which, at the same time, creates a large gap, which must somehow be replaced the next day. There are huge problems with the issue of the economy, especially in the economically weaker, the free-traders, the people who are slowly going to be in a difficult situation and the country must be ready the next day. And the tools that will help the country create prospects, growth and better economic conditions are the major development projects, including the creation of spatial plans and local urban projects. We all know that town plans were decades old, creating huge problems both in municipalities and in individuals, who cannot build their own projects, could not give way to the region, because it was a precondition for an approved project. On this basis, we must not think about why this bill is being voted on today, but we must consider why such a bill did not become a law in the previous government, because it did not give our country the opportunity with the enormous economic problems to take steps and to be able to lay the foundations for development. It is therefore regrettable that we are coming today in the midst of a health crisis to fight to complete the bases that are necessary for the present and the future. This draft law has important axes and one of them is environmental protection. Environmental protection must motivate citizens to contribute to their protection, because the environment is protected by their actions, their behaviour and their choices. So the building factor is reduced in the off-project, mainly under four acres, so that the unregulated structure which alters the beautiful environment of our region, the beautiful environment of our country and creates at the same time malfunctions, can be avoided. Different actions cannot be side by side, because they do not only aesthetically match, but sometimes they conflict with each other's function and create obstacles and malfunctions. So environmental protection can be achieved by this methodology, of course, giving people who have a non-project property in order to be able to use it within a period of time. At the same time, buildings which have a great energy efficiency to increase the build-up factor, which means that everyone is given an important incentive, an important opportunity to try and do something better for its construction. Firstly, he will win himself, because he will have low costs and save energy, but at the same time he will be given a higher build-up factor, which is an important chapter in his course and his options in the future. Also, through this bill, it is possible to compensate for the expropriated areas more quickly, which for long periods tortured the owners, when their land was expropriated without such compensation. All these are important funds that help and combat various malfunctions. A parallel development can be carried out by projects and by issuing building permits, for which engineers and owners have often expressed themselves, saying that they are particularly delaying and causing problems both to themselves and to their development, as well as more generally in whatever perspective there is. Now, electronic issuing of licences minimizes time and gives another opportunity for progress and development. Thus, this draft law has important funds. Protects the environment, helps growth and enables investment. Investments in a more favourable environment benefit not only the economically strong but also the economically weaker. If there are malfunctions, the investor will not make his investment, but he may be doing it somewhere else or in another country. But the person who is also affected is also the economically weakest who in a large investment seeks his own place, seeks his own benefit, seeks his own role and his path that he loses when there is no prospect and when there is no growth. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment which comes from the Cozan and Florina laws. These are the areas where the thermoelectric power stations of Amphethion and Heart have expired. We are already moving towards a shift in the energy profile and we have huge areas that are open mines. The project was completed through these areas not today but for ten years, and some of the areas had to be restored and the project of the next operation on this land had to be prepared. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, to date, nothing has been done by the government that preceded it and which shows particular zeal and interest in the words about this region. However, we do not see the deposit, we do not see what has to be done, so that we can continue from there and beyond for the stations which would end their operation, but also for the transition to another fuel, because of the pan-European and global flow in the energy issues that we have all known and agreed on from all sides and from almost all parties in Parliament's Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u273	Madam Colleague, please very briefly, you should be brief. You've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u274	I will end in a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u275	You don't have a minute, my colleague, because you're already in eight minutes. You have thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u276	Yes, Madam President. The amendment that comes starts the studies that will be carried out in collaboration with the Ministry and with PPC, so that it can be decided on spatial planning how and how this land will be exploited. I'm sure it's the beginning. We welcome it, but the route is a long one. Through the cooperation of self-government, parliamentarians and the Ministry, this Charter must be done in such a way that it is beneficial to local society and also to the development of a wider area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Syriza has the floor for seven minutes now. Please, Mr. Colleague, follow your timer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to comment on what Mr Hatzidakis said earlier. Only a little shame should there be on what the government says about health issues, with the situation in northern Greece being out of control, with people suffering from COVID being transported by special means to Athens and a budget for 2021, which is, in fact, less than EUR 587 000 million. But, in order not to waste time, I will quickly get to the issue of today's spatial policy bill. What I want to say is that really the spatial planning and in general the urban planning in our country is one of the great sins, which has been dragging away for decades with obvious adverse effects on the country's development path and development choices. For example, I'll talk to you about the Cyclades from wherever I come from. Since the first attempt to devise spatial planning in 1988 with funding from the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, up to the last few years, great difficulties appeared, but also the lack of political will of both central governments and local government, because they did not want to displease their clienteles. From the first institutionalisations made by the late Antonis Tritsis, as of course with the following governments, there was no real intersection in the country's spatial planning, because there was no holistic conception. The work done by the SYRIZA Government in the difficult years 2015-2019, which is now degraded by the New Democracy systematically day after day, has been extremely important. I tell you laws 4447/2016, 4546/2018, 4495/2017, etc. The necessary local spatial plans were also established, the presidential decree on procedures and timetables, their technical specifications for their preparation, the presidential decree on land use. The revised specification of the specific spatial plans and the technical specifications for the preparation of the regional frameworks were adopted. A draft Presidential Decree was also submitted to the Council of State for the revision of the articles maintained in Laws 2508/1997 and 2742/1999 on sustainable housing development and on the objectives of spatial planning. The SYRIZA government left three hundred and thirty-three studies per municipality, as well as their funding. I heard yesterday in the committee Mr Economou, who failed to secure the European Investment Bank's funding. But I remembered exactly what other ministers of the New Democracy Government had claimed about the 'PHILDIUM' programme, as they claimed there was no funding. They had to disprove themselves later because they just wanted to say that the "Philodimos" programme could not go ahead, which, to erase from the Greek people's historical memory, was renamed "Antonis Tritsis". Of course, the funding proved to exist. Of course, yet another major task that began but has been frozen is the forest maps, as well as the Land register, which have been cancerous for decades. As far as the preparation and acceleration of local town planning, which will be drawn up at municipal level, will allow me to say despite the fact that I am not an expert, that I do not understand fragmentation in subsets of the cultural municipalities, which means disparity, but possibly conflicting situations within the municipalities themselves. Especially in small and medium-sized islands, such as Cyclades, small geographical areas and small distances, further highlight the confusion and contradictions that will be created. Also, the preparation of the specific spatial framework, without the participation of local government, throws away any advice from the LAGs on the essential issues that concern them. At this point I would like to ask Mr Hatzidakis straight away, who I think is present. When the Mayor and the Chief of Tinos had come to your office to discuss the preparation of the Special Spatial Planning for the RES, you told them that local administration would be involved in the elaboration of this special spatial planning. Now, what exactly is going on and you're throwing them out without the right of local government to give an opinion? As far as marine spatial planning is concerned, I really do not understand the incomprehensible separation from the planning of the coastal zone, as much as Mr. Economou tells us that this is the terrestrial coastal area, which is something different. But imagine, in the offshore coastal area, there is a hotel and in front of the seaside, a farm unit. What comment can you make on this combination? The second point I would like to say is that this bill is supposed to abolish or rather restrict off-project construction. From a position of principle we were in favour of abolishing the non-constructional project, but with a gradual abolition of the non-constructive construction project with the simultaneous planned extension of the existing settlements and with a comprehensive urban and spatial planning plan that will take into account overall the preparation of forest maps and the Land register. That is why we are saying that what you say about limiting the off-building project is essentially limited and I think it is false, because, initially, it maintains the six-year transition stage by pushing an increase in applications for building permits. Meanwhile, in the medium term, it abolishes the derogations for construction in the small areas of seven hundred and one thousand two hundred square blocks, abolishes excellence in the plots of the two acres existing from the 24-4-1977 area, which are within the five hundred metres zone from the city plan and the settlements. It also increases the build-up rates in complex tourist accommodations...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u279	Colleague, you'll have to close down slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u280	To what conclusion are we leading through these arrangements, which we consider to be scandalous? It is clear to us that the value of small land, that is to say small-scale property, is reduced once again by the very strong business interests, while the weaker ones are clearly wronged. I would like to make two further remarks concerning...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, please, you have gone far beyond your time and the list is too long. Please, you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u282	Everyone made a little misuse of time. Give me a minute. As far as Articles 32 and 36 are concerned, a very big problem has arisen. The Minister has brought a legislative arrangement in relation to the composition, as I understand it, of the architectural committees and the relationship between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture. We haven't seen her from a distance, as we are, and we can't have an opinion. But what I want to say is that there has been a huge problem in the Cyclades, blocking hundreds of loose ends on building permits and in Santorini mainly, but also in Syros and other islands, where local operators, engineers and citizens are struggling to find a solution. There are two solutions. Or there's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Comrade, why are you embarrassing me? Please very much. You're already in nine and a half minutes. Please. There are too many colleagues who want to talk tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u284	Madam President, I shall end, even though I will have to cut off some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Comrade, you know your time is seven minutes. You know that from the start. Why are you always embarrassing me? Please. You will leave colleagues who will not speak today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u286	Why won't they talk? Everyone on the list should speak. We'll go by the time the House has to go, in other words late. I don't understand why we have to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Comrade, you know the rules of the House. I don't make the rules, nor do I define them. You know very well that there are colleagues who need to speak. Please respect my colleagues. I'm not saying anything else. He's in your mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u288	I wanted to say beforehand that representatives of the Archaeological Service will also be able to decide, as long as they know the cases, prior to the architectural councils on each island. I conclude by saying that the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Tagaras, has promised us that he will bring to the vote a provision on grassland that exists in the Cyclades, but also in many other island regions, where the presumption of ownership is not public but private. This is an unresolved situation which is afflicting hundreds of thousands of citizens and the islands. We're waiting for the Department of the Environment to take the initiative to bring it in. In any case, I wanted to say a few more things about the towns, but I am not getting time. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Economou will take the floor and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos will be given the floor. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor for seven minutes. Please just be careful with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u290	Sure. After the speech by Mr Tsipras, who has really achieved everything, and has tied up an important task carried out by this government, I think that is his own opposition poverty. I am therefore entering the draft law under discussion. It really is a reform bill, which deals with a number of issues in the field of spatial and urban planning, has an environmental sign and helps the investment environment. I shall refer to three - four points which I consider to be very important. First, it's the off-site construction. An important point is precisely the restriction of anarchy, outside the construction plan, which has environmental, climate and aesthetic consequences. I would like to say that I come from a region - my constituency is Corfu, as you know - where, unfortunately, we have a huge problem with unregulated construction. The Ministry was therefore invited to find the golden incision between the need to reduce the off-site construction and removal of the derogations in force since 1962 and to avoid, of course, the surprise of the owners of the property, who so far know that there is a certain regime. Derogations do indeed employ many citizens since a comparatively significant number of construction permits are exempted because of the small lot. So to deal with this particular phenomenon, a transitional period for land, which is out of plan and less than four acres, is first introduced. Their owners are given the opportunity to proceed with a building permit within two years, which will apply for four years. A total of six years is therefore given for the use of land. On this point, I too would like to thank the Minister for listening to our requests for this transitional period. Now, some issues have been included and clarified in the transitional provisions. I have already had contact with the Minister, and I thank him. We are, of course, talking about Article 40 where the conditions for complete derogations are as they are in all cases, and we are talking about the fact that the conditions of construction are now in force for the transitional period of two years and other matters which have also been clarified by legislative intervention. Now, as far as owners who do not get permission during the transitional period are concerned, it does not mean that they do not have the right to build or exploit their property because we expect local town plans to come and on the basis of these new local town plans, of course, they will also be able to exploit their property, and the small lots, since local projects have such a provision. So I come to the other point, which is the basic point, which is the local town plan. This is a very important opportunity given to the country when we consider that only 20% of the country has local urban plans. The complete spatial planning of Greece requires five hundred studies, while this huge project will start from the islands and tourist regions, so from our own constituency, Corfu, which is one of them. So this great project is to be completed in 2028. It seems far away, but it's not. It will cover the whole of the territory, and the preparation and approval of the town plans will now be achieved within two and a half years and not in twelve to fifteen that are currently in force, which is very important. Of course, some things are planned for the maintenance of the timeframe. I will dwell on two - three: the establishment of the urban planning coordinator; and, secondly, that in support of the work of the monitoring committees and the evaluation of spatial studies, the evaluation will be entrusted to certified private assessors. We understand that it is necessary for private individuals to be entrusted because public personnel are not enough to carry out all this large amount of work, and indeed in a relatively short time. And because I hear from the Opposition talk about private people and so on, let me say that it's okay, let's not have a short memory. We all know that this is not the first time private assistance will be provided. The third point is that this will be done with guaranteed funding. In our government they really deserve congratulations because the problem has been identified and we have put it in. It is very important that 80% of the 200 million that is needed to make all this spatial and spatial planning will be covered by the resources of the Recovery Fund, which means that the Greek debt is not charged. So it's also very important. I will now stand at the point where it is for tourism. The provisions included are very important because spatial planning will also benefit the further development of tourism. It is also positive that the bill lays down construction conditions for tourist accommodation, providing for, among other things, an increase in the build-up rate in complex tourist accommodation, while setting a regulatory framework for mixed small-scale tourist accommodation. The regulations, which relate to the conditions for the construction of tourist accommodation and the urban incentives for the quality and competitiveness of tourist facilities, are also important. I would also like to focus on the possibility of creating mixed small-scale tourist accommodation in abandoned settlements or in settlements with less than two thousand inhabitants, together with the residential renewal of the settlement. In this way they can resurrect and emerge old settlements and of course create a number of new jobs. And my area of Corfu has such settlements where there can indeed be significant regeneration and development. Let me also say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u291	You need to close down slowly, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u292	I would therefore like to thank the Minister for extending the time he has given. To conclude, Madam President, since today is the Day of Persons with Disabilities, that this bill has provisions which help people with disabilities to strengthen accessibility of buildings and of change. In two words, it is an innovative bill bringing our country to the level of the developed European country, it has provisions that correct the chaos that has troubled the country so many years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Comrade, please. You've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u294	...and I invite everyone to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, too. The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor now, Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u296	Obviously, too many questions have been raised. I can't answer everything. I will try to cover a few points today and the rest tomorrow. However, I cannot avoid this at first glance. SYRIZA has consumed inexperienced parliamentary time, repeating itself, for which he has received answers. One of SYRIZA wasn't found unless I'm wrong and I apologise to him for saying a word about the arrangements we bring about for people with disabilities. Maybe someone said it, I didn't hear it. But this shows the truly well-known "social sensitivity" of this party. Now let's move on to some issues at the heart of the draft law. We have seen today the opposition to SYRIZA, which Mr Famelos and some other SYRIZA officials are doing all these days. I am going to speed up a new and delicious one: it has been said that with the Special Spatial Spatial Framework on Mineral Raw Materials the Regional Spatial Framework of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace will be amended, because we are making the specific spatial planning framework binding on the regional spatial planning frameworks. This was said by SYRIZA collectively. When one hears something from SYRIZA collectively, one thinks what a pit is. There are two pits here. The first is that SYRIZA gave it to her. The Special Spatial-Trade Framework for VDUs was made by SYRIZA. The second is that the bindingity of the spatial frameworks exists from Law 4447 before, but SYRIZA kept it. Regional spatial planning is clearly harmonized in the specific spatial planning frameworks. It means that special spatial planning is binding. So again, a hole in the water from the usual ones, but which in the last few days we have seen abundantly. I'll go to a second point. The lies sheet every day is enriched with some news. I'm going to dial two again because it was a lot of today. He said this morning, Mr Famellos, because he was the one who said it, and I do not want anyone else to charge it or to believe it, that while the draft law encoding town law we have not started it. The Committee on Coding, led by Mr Menudakos, has started and operated since the summer. That's the first shitty lie. Secondly, it is a lie that we, in the draft law, abolish the participation of the municipalities and regions in the urban planning processes. There is nothing to change in terms of the involvement of municipalities and regions in the processes of spatial planning, spatial planning and town planning, with the current draft law. Keep what exists beforehand. Why are you resorting to such lies, which are beaten? I can't figure out who they're going to convince. Anyone can read immediately understands that it is inconsistent. Why do you really do this, I'm incompetent, but it's a lie. Let's go to the off-site construction. A lot has been heard, and I imagine they'll be heard tomorrow. It has been obvious that some SYRIZA executives have been led by a lobby, in which others are also involved, in favour of anarchy outside construction plan and the arbitrary ones. This is evident from the discussions in the House, as well as the state of some SYRIZA officials in the past few months. From that point on, however, those from SYRIZA finally condemn the mild restriction of the off-planning project, which we do then shed some crocodile tears for the poor outside construction project. But they had the bad idea to ask the President of SYRIZA to come and talk about this issue too. The interest with the President of SYRIZA was that he did not even shed those crocodile tears. It was placed on the issue with an incredible cynicism, a micropolitical one, seeking votes among desperate people not even talking about the consequences outside the construction plan. He didn't say anything. All he said is that he defends the micro-ownership, the Saint George of micro-ownership, that this is the new role of the Left or what the Left means today. It is not really interesting to record it, it simply makes me seem to me how a left-wing tradition is ignored and ridiculed that on the issue of off-site construction and on some other environmental issues it was a decent and extremely important one. You're totally disgusting her. In particular, the presence of the President of SYRIZA ignored all references both to arbitrary and off-project. It was left only to the small-owners, who promised that when SYRIZA arrived in the government it would restore them, that is to say, it would restore the derogations. Not all of this surprises me, of course. It's clear. I just want to say this about the other opposition parties. Especially PASOK has a very important tradition in these matters. In 2011, it was the first time in decades that a restriction was made on the off-project construction by the then PASOK government, which abolished the derogations in the NATURA areas. In the past, of course, other important things have been done before, but I live in this because it has a direct bearing on out-of-plan construction. I really wonder what the Change Movement will do now in terms of voting or not voting for the arrangements that we bring about outside planning. I understand that everyone can have different opinions. Some would prefer that the transition period would be longer, some would prefer that there be no one at all. All this is expected and in many cases respected. There are arguments. In the end, the government chose an average route, but it puts the second port on limiting off-built construction. I would remind you that it is foreseen by the 2008 National Spatial Space Framework. Other crocodile tears were poured on the national spatial strategy because it is not binding. The 2008 Spatial Plan is binding and says "reactive limitation of the off-building project immediately" and without connecting it to urban planning, as is done all over the world. One more, the other one. The one who was binding, why wasn't he applied? What did SYRIZA do for five years, having this National Spatial Spatial Framework, which in words respects it without applying anything at all? Let's go to the next topic, which is linked to the previous one, the special town plans. This is an extreme distortion of reality. I have said several times, and I will say it now with more information and tomorrow with more than just funding from the European Investment Bank. I have here an email from the European Investment Bank in Greece. It says, "Around the end of 2018, the Ministry of Development approached the European Investment Bank to support local urban projects. The thought communicated to the European Bank was to fund the projects from the "Philodimos" which some mentioned. That's where the whole deal stayed. No official request was sent, nor did the European Investment Bank make any decision, nor did any delegations and others meet. At least that is the official briefing we have from the European Bank. Because from there, I really remember what the lady asked before, if we went crazy. If there was funding, are we crazy not to use it? Why not use it? It was almost free money, almost. A loan that the next generations will pay for, and in any case it is low. Why don't we use it if there was one? So it says the bank itself didn't exist. And he continues: "In January 2020, he became an approach from the RIS that marked the opening of negotiations..." etc. And we started negotiating. That's the reality. I'll testify to you. In addition to funding, five years, SYRIZA has entrusted how many local town planning studies? I'll testify to all the studies in the Minutes. None! In five years, he did not even commission a study of local town planning, he had five years. The law of SYRIZA, which local town planning plans virtually little changed them in 2016, had another three years. What did he do? From what I understood, and I was indifferent - Mr. Srmalenis mentioned the work of the RIS during this period - he took up the standards of local town planning, took out a draft presidential decree and was generally killed at work to prepare the programme of local town planning. I am impressed, but I still wonder how he made all this amount of awards in such a short time. And they come and tell us now because for a year we have been delayed in making use of funding, which is not there, and which we have replaced with a better funding. And at the same time within the next month we take off the new specifications and in January we begin the notices. This is again a horror of reality, but through which those who say these things are ridiculed. I'll say one last point and I'll stop here. The rest I'll leave for tomorrow. There was also yesterday a debate on the coordinator of local urban projects and on the certified assessors of local urban projects. It's similar. So I said yesterday that these things exist from SYRIZA. Firstly, the possibility of outsourcing the evaluation of timely surveillance is provided by the Spirtzi Act in Article 128. That's another opposition. SYRIZA has institutionalised the possibility of entrusting private scientists with evaluation and supervision of spatial studies and other studies. We don't do it, SYRIZA had put it into legislation, just never did it, just like he didn't do anything else. From there on, though, he did something. He commissioned supervision of the programme of specific urban studies and the management plans of the NATURA areas to a private scholar. What does this private person have to do with what we're talking about? Because the coordinator is purely advisory and has no competence. What is the object of a coordinator with 1.6 million, if I remember well, in the studies of specific environmental studies and management plans? Draw up detailed guidelines for the preparation and preparation of deliverables. In other words, it had not been done by the Ministry, it assigned them to the private coordinator. The standards, the ones that tell us now why we didn't do them. Coordination and monitoring, where monitoring means supervision, of the work of the contractors with regard to, etc. Cooperation between the Contractor and Coordinator shall take place throughout the year. The contraaor will be responsible for the coordination of 11 studies, 11 studies were awarded 30% of the country, so that there is a uniform approach to dealing with problems, namely, policy issues, and coordination on policy issues. Why when we talk about problems, when do you do it? When you have specific problems. These were therefore assigned to a private person, to a company. In one. From there on, there were more. Establishment of a timetable, organization of consultation, evaluation of consultation. That's all the same. Says more and ends the two cherry cherry. The final draft presidential decree will not be drawn up by individual contractors, but the main thing, the final draft presidential decree, i.e. their regulations, or rather the private coordinator, as well as the drafting of final draft management plans. I only said a few of the few of the few assigned to the coordinator of specific environmental studies. There is no hint of the scientific capacity or the integrity of this company. I am referring to what the Ministry considered appropriate, and especially Mr Famellos, who declares the independence of the public, to the issue of specific environmental studies. Also, for all of this, there is a three-member committee of civil servants - and it may be five-member, but I think it is three-member - which, for 30% of this country, will receive all the studies, that is, what the coordinator will do, and will sign them. So we are asked how the local town planning plans will be signed by our own receipt committees. How will that committee sign for 30% of the country in a month? Well, that's a little bit. Tomorrow I will continue with other vulnerabilities and interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs. Perka, you're out of time, but I'll give you the floor for just a minute. If you do one minute and one second, I'll turn you off the microphone. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Madam President. I want to restore a few things. On the first issue of SMEs, because we agree, Mr Economou, on the arrangements for small and mediumsized enterprises, we are not in place. Nevertheless, in committee, I made my criticism, because even the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises you have a change of use for tourist accommodation. Even that's where you broke it. And leave these lobbies in favor of unregulated outside construction plan. Our position is very clear, we analysed it and we will see it again tomorrow. As far as specific spatial planning is concerned, they are being extended as an object, because they are being taken up by the National Spatial Strategy, becoming more binding, and our own law first of all had a distinction in the relationships, in strategic and regulatory, which was good, but also had a feedback, that is to say, in regional areas to make proposals for modifications to the specifics, which is now there, only if the specifics themselves define it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u299	There is, and there was beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u300	Good, I'll see it, but I think it doesn't exist. For local town planning, you were a scholar. Now, if the scholars are late, what can I say, the specials are not over. We had a coordinator, who oversaw what you said about uniform application of rules. He didn't replace civil servants. Of course, they're studies, they're commissioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, too. I will give the floor for two minutes to the Minister of Health, Mr Kikilis, to put him on a tabled amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u302	Madam President, I won't even need two minutes. This is the amendment under number 635/72. There are two articles in the amendment tabled by the Ministry. One, as we announced yesterday, relates to the 100% additional compensation for the damage suffered by mobile doctors and nurses of the ESS per day moving from another healthcare region to affected areas, where there is a need for support from the National Health System. The second article concerns the possibility of part-time work for our volunteers and other staff who accept to go to the National Health System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u304	Can I ask the Minister a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u305	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u306	Minister, I would like to ask whether you will accept the amendment that we have tabled for the payment of overtime by doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u307	You cannot answer that question now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u308	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Comrade, he's not the immediate minister. So she can't be accepted right now. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u310	Who says he can't? He's addressed to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u311	He's not an expedited minister. Mr. Karathanasopoulos will now be given the floor and immediately after Mr. Akiuppis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the occasion of Mr Tsipras' intervention, we have followed a ping-pong between the Government and the Civic Civilization on the issues that exist in the field of health. We call it clear. The government has enormous responsibility for the health problems and how the issue of pandemic has been handled, where not only has the health system actually not only shielded, but has also adapted the protocols based on the interests of business groups, not least in terms of human life. In this respect, therefore, the whole debate that is developing between the parties and the New Democracy, the Government and SYRIZA, the Civic Anti-Civilisation, but also the other parties, is trying to cover the enormous responsibilities that the parties that have over time ruled on the situation in the public health sector by deterioration, shrinking, depreciation in the name of the development of the private health sector, which now seems to be awkward about how it serves its interests. To satisfy the profits of business groups active in the health sector, people's needs and satisfaction are sacrificed. In this respect, therefore, whatever crocodile tears they shed, taking advantage of human suffering, cannot cover the enormous responsibilities. We call it clear. It is inhumane to compare you and the government and the opposition. Comparison based on the dead, the number of the dead. As a JRC, we have not resorted to such a drought and neither will we be resorting. Of course, we do not go into comparisons of what is going on between the other countries of the European Union and globally. But if you wish, we can make an exception here, because it is precisely on the reverse of the commercialised health that exists in Greece and the other capitalist economies, the danger to the peoples of monopolies in the private health sector in the examination, diagnosis, care, medicines and vaccines that we see in these strong competitions that exist and which the European Union and other states are defending. This is the only example that goes against the substance, with the enormous results, with the effective treatment of pandemic, even though it is faced with unacceptable sanctions, with a multi-annual embargo from the United States, but also with the other states of the European Union. In fact, this small island of Cuba, with a population similar to Greece, sends and helps the countries affected and collapsed their health systems. In this respect, it is indicative of the difference, which is why the JRC is supporting in practice, firmly and unequivocally, our solidarity with the Cuban people. We support the candidacy that has been put in place for the Cuban doctors, the Nobel Health Nobel Prize as a flagrant recognition of the achievements in the field of health and the protection of human life. To close this parenthesis, I will enter the debate on the bill and start a little unorthodox. I shall begin with the criticism of the Minister for the Environment and Energy of the JRC and I shall refer to two, three, points of this criticism. The first is for arbitrary construction. The Minister was upset, it seemed strange to him that we took this position as JRC for the specific articles relating to non-project construction. But the government is not against the outside construction. He doesn't fight out of plan construction. You can barely do the opposite, Minister. And like me, because of course you are allowing the construction of four acres and above all - that is the main one - the large groups, the businessmen, by legislation, by development laws, by the draft law itself and the outside construction plan to go ahead with large installations. In fact, you are getting to the point of donating complex tourist accommodation with a higher build-up rate for the off-project. And who are you chasing? You hunt after those with small plots, the small plots. They are the ones you're chasing, you've put them in the picture and you're actually telling them that "if in two years you don't get permission - run, kill, borrow, do what you want - you can't build." What is the outcome of the procedure? The depreciation of the land they have. They deserve their land. What does that mean? Whatever beer than will be purchased by the large business groups and the land, which is scattered, will be concentrated in less and less hands to speed up the procedures for the concentration of land and development of business plans, for complex tourist accommodations and others. In this respect, we are clean as a JRC. The JRC does not defend the non-project construction and the new landfill, which you bring, by arrangements for the off-project construction that favours the archerism of the building for the big capital, to the detriment of the people's property and the right to the holiday home. In other words, it is at the expense of the people's rights, which are sacrificed on the altar of profits. Secondly, the Minister was upset by the position we took on the provision on bioclimate buildings and stressed that the JRC is the only party in the world - as far as he knows - that is against bioliquid buildings. Is that what you get? He's smarter for the Minister to understand that. Because as a JRC, we're not against the bioclimatic buildings. We are not against science and science's achievements. Those who are against the achievements of science, in other places you must also search them for those who are working on the achievements of science, in your own political spaces you must look for them, Minister. I would like to ask you a question: can the unemployed build a bioliquid building? Can a pensioner of EUR 500? The new pair of 1,000 euros wages, at best, a monthly income can build a bioliquid building? Can a professional who is squeezing from the loans, taxes and obligations? No, he can't fix. That's forbidden for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u313	So no one's making it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u314	We didn't say that! It's forbidden for them. Let me finish. I didn't interrupt you. I have followed the Minister and you with great pleasure. In this respect, therefore, they cannot be fixed. They don't even have tile over their heads, many of them risk losing it with auctions. So who are you subsidising with this arrangement, Minister, who says that the building-maker has a 5% increase in the building coefficient? Those who need it or those who don't need it? The ones they don't need. That's what we burned down, Minister. We have said that you are subsidising those who do not need it and not those who need first home. So what we want as a JRC is, of course, the state - not the urban state, because it cannot - take care to cover housing needs, build houses, embedded in all the achievements of technology, be first and foremost earthquakes, which you do not care about, have energy savings, be bioclimatic, have all these plans. But that's what we want for the whole people. It can be done with huge, free spaces. It can be done, but not in the system that you serve. That's why the JRC is fighting to change this situation. The Minister spoke of progress. He says, "progress is not to take note of it, but to move on." Of course, you may move forward and fall into the cliff. However, because we do not want to relax the position of the Minister, let us look at it more specifically. For us progress, Minister, is precisely the use of the achievements of science, to cover and satisfy modern and expanded people's needs. Can you ensure that? Oh, no. You're barely sacrificing these needs. And bring in some examples. For example, the amendment to which we shall refer tomorrow for deprivation. You have brought an article and you say that the specific consumption charge for diesel is increased by EUR 0,03 per litre. At the expense of who? At the expense of the populace. Another joy to make it a green end, a green resource to go to the fund and finance green investment. In other words, the people should pay out of their pocket for the interests of the predators of green energy. And on the other hand, you bring another article that says that the fee for large consumption in industries is reduced by over 10000MWh, from 2.5% to 2%, making a "gift" as the State General Accounting Office says, at a rate of 4 million euros a year in large businesses. In other words, you are even more sacrificed to the needs of the people and at the same time support the profitability of business groups. In addition, the EIA interactor. We say it clearly that through this process of liberalisation of the electricity market and on the pretext of green growth, green energy, only the predators of the business groups involved in green energy have actually benefited. While, on the contrary, the popular layers saw their income decrease, because they increased electricity tariffs very much and at the same time they were at the expense of the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have fought with government and deserved opposition to the end of the renewable energy sources paid by the people, to give warm money to the predators of the RES. We are not talking here, of course, about some who put a photovoltaic or two or three on both of the poor farmers. These were the cheese on the lentils to legalize the action of the predators of these major business groups. And here, Mr Tsipras was - we would say - the guardian of the interests of these business groups. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] From this point of view, therefore, the Minister was honest when he said that we want the spatial planning to be designed to serve it, to be more investment-friendly and to adapt land-uses to the needs of business groups. But that is why we say that not only is it not confronted with anarchy, but the anarchy will be expanded in the placement, in the use of land, in the construction of towns. And the anarchy will be widened because it is the same of the capitalist system, Minister. And here you go and take a step further into what the SYRIZA government left you. What did SYRIZA do? He had made a special spatial planning plan for major strategic investments. They can do whatever they want on the basis of the substance. And you're taking this one step further. This anarchy is becoming much more embodied with the placement of wind parks, where the mountain tumors were actually circumvented, forests were destroyed, and, of course, many wind parks are responsible for flooding phenomena. Because, precisely, there was this unregulated placement, because it is the same of the capitalist system and its hunter profit. In this respect, then, planning as you plan and subject it to the needs of investment projects and business groups is at the expense of the people's people's needs and needs for modern cities, for free spaces. Why did you actually use what? What is well known: there are a number of committed spaces for decades in various municipalities, but they cannot go to squares or public areas, because they do not have the money to expropriate themselves. Instead of ensuring the creation of free spaces, the state releases them after eight years. To move on what? To proceed with the regeneration of urban centres, which are at the expense of the people's rights and, in particular, of the most degraded regions and neighbourhoods. So this anarchy is at the expense of even exploiting the country's productive potential. Why exactly are you adjusting it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u316	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are destroying the country's productive potential and adapting them to the needs of capital. What's that? Tourism, transit and RES. Rural production is shrinking and destroyed, other production capacities in the country, which are not of interest to capital because they are not profitable, they are not exploited at all and are destroyed and crushed. In the end this spatial planning is at the expense of the environment. Because you're adapting to the needs of capital. That's why we say that spatial planning and spatial planning are not a technocratic issue, but it's a political issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u318	...and it relates to who has power in his hands, who owns the earth and what interests he wants to serve. The rest of the debate will take place tomorrow, of course, and the issues of the amendments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. To continue with Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill which affects a large part of Greek society, namely property owners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Constantopoulos, unfortunately we can't hear you. We'll leave it for a while and move on to Mr. Chrysomalis. Mr. Chrysop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u322	Good evening. Because of the day I could not start my speech today by mentioning a great friend of Greece who left today. I am referring to Valerie Ziskar d'Esten, who has also played a crucial role in the return of the nation's ruler Karamanlis to the country and the restoration of democracy, but has also provided great support for the country for its full integration into Europe. Indeed, Greece has lost a great friend today, but I dare say that the slogan that sounded at the time also today sounds "Greece - France alliance". Before I refer to the issues of the bill, I would not be able to make a reference to what Mr Tsipras has heard about the pandemic. We have been listening for the last days to SYRIZA officials and today the Chief of Police Vice-Population himself is trying to talk about supposedly there are two recording systems and that there are two recordings. It is clear that there is a system and what it refers to is a subsystem that measures steps from mobile units and complements the central system. To understand it: What does it mean to have duplicates? So, we've got fifty dead people, and we're pleading a hundred? We've got a thousand cases, and we're reporting two thousand? It does not make any sense to that argument. As far as the accusation is concerned, we are dealing with communication by the government, mercy, colleagues of the Opposition! IDs more than doubled. No "mushrooms" were created. Mr. Paulakis himself went and saw the fifty ICU at the “Save” Hospital. Don't judge the weirdo yourself. I'll come to the bill now. Once again we have heard from the opposition voices of destructiveness, populist krone, multiplier, promises of what they will do if - I add - they return to power. We have heard that this bill is an expression of the New Democracy's idealism, that it is a bill that only aims to favour the few and destroy the small property of the many. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'll speak to you first as a political engineer. This bill is a bill of common sense, which arranges decades for the country. Before I say about these loose ends, I will talk about an emblematic provision of the bill, because of the World Disabled Persons Day, which enables these people to become non-building ramps. It is a provision that has a distinct symbolism and I wanted to stress it because of the day. As I said, this bill'sends the water in the groove'. Settles years of loose ends. What I mean: Brings provisions in respect of the ploughing plots. You know, it is a problem that arouses thousands of our fellow citizens, who have actually seen their property demolished, then the state enclaved it - or the municipality - and not even expropriation progresses, so that they have an asset literally committed. There's a class coming in now. There's an end to this. Conservation and transfer of a builder: Since 1978 this problem has been stirring up this country. Finally, a solution is beginning to be given. The register is being created, the Earth Bank, in which these owners, who own a transfer of a builder, will know that they can use it somewhere. Do you know how many years he's been paid to HISHA, they're reporting him to their E9 and he's never been given a solution? They're saving this device for them, In the case of non-projects, we hear from the opposition two different voices. Merra25 says that the off-project construction must be completely abolished tomorrow morning. SYRIZA has another line and says that two years should not be granted by way of derogation but more time. Only by this criticism can we understand that we have taken the middle road, the right path. We don't surprise anyone. Those owners who have lands under four acres and built by way of derogation have a period of two years and more to get permission. And I stress this because during the two years, neither the time to pass through archaeology nor the time to pass through the forest office will count. So this could be two and a half years, three years in some cases. But this, Minister, is an issue that at some point with the co-legislative ministries, because we do have many delays in these two services. It is a bill that starts to give the greatest solution to it, and I am referring to local town plans. It will provide a solution because it has guaranteed funding, the main problem of decades, with 160 million from the Recovery Fund and 40 million from the European Investment Bank. It is thus ensured that local town planning will not bolt, become and become quickly because there is funding. Finally, the provisions on the modernisation of the building regulation are all in the right direction and from all engineers they have received positive comments. So, to recapitulate, it is a new bill that will give solutions, will take away the tide and suffering of owners, who have for many years been inconvenienced either by the castings or by the transfer of the building factor. It will start to put out in a classroom the off-project construction without surpriseing anyone and will finally proceed to create an overall situation for the country, where together with the Land register and all other tools we will now have in the country a modern map that will have all the data and all the data on all kinds of property and plots. In conclusion, I could not fail to mention the abhorrence and placement of the Chief of Police Vice-Population what it would do when it comes to becoming a government, that it would be eradicated by a law and by an article today's provisions of the Ministry of the Environment. He followed Mr Paul Paul Paul Paulakis' line, as he said in his speech. I will answer you with one of your great philosophers, Panagiotis Kondylis, who has openly told you since 1991 that the Left in terms of its customer relations and the prestige of power, measrotragically supports every request, even the one that leads to the dissolution and sale of the country, is enough to call for it to have the title'solid'. Sadly, for you, gentlemen of the Officership, the people taught you and they don't believe you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u323	Thank you. As Mr Constantopoulos has a problem with his connection, we will proceed to the next speaker, Mr Akitopis. Here you go, Mr. Akuppi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much. You will allow me to begin by commenting a little on the forty-five minutes of the speech of Mr. Tsipras' Chief of Staff, who at some point could have done everything he said to be believed in some of the things he said. But at the time he said that Greece is over the average even from America to cases and deaths, that's where we've fallen again. And that is all I want to say to you, that as far as health and health funding are concerned, because I happen to be a hospital doctor, since June we started protesting all the clubs in hospitals for the fact of incomplete funding and that the year was not going to come and making mobilisations to get money. Well, I'm telling you that this year we are ending and not only was there no problem in a hospital, I will mention to you attributes that in Zakynthos we received over 1.5 million in relation to the last year, and so not only were we able to serve the needs, but also to do a lot of interventions in the hospital that was left in his luck without making the required service that he had to do. I'm coming to the bill. I would say that today we are bringing a draft environmental legislation, a green bill, a bill that comes to correct, cure and put into order signs of the past, while at the same time forming extremely suitable ground for new investments and outlines the country's development path. In fact, this draft law is being put to the vote at a key point in time, when we are perhaps in the most critical phase of the pandemic in our country. At the moment this legislative initiative recommends to the citizens of our country a message of optimism and hope. It introduces provisions that change the philosophy of the country's building activity, give a new character in terms of environmental policy and social sensitivity. In addition, this draft law contains provisions such as providing a higher rate of building for environmentally friendly buildings, encouraging the strengthening of accessibility of buildings for people with disabilities and suspending sanctions for arbitrary constructions and changes in use of Category 5 for immovable property located in areas declared to be in emergency situations. One of them was Zakynthos, my district. By means of the provisions of this article, it proves essentially and in practice what the party is, the party, which places the protection of the environment and the rationalisation of construction and the care for the de facto improvement of the everyday life of our fellow citizens at the centre, at the heart of its policy. We also know perfectly well what the limits of the imminent environmental sensitivity of the Officership are. It is also the same Professional Opposition, which moves us to the emblematic project of ligniteification which we are bringing to completion, when in four and a half years the SYRIZA government has sought twice to sell lignite units and when it failed, it has suddenly turned against liberation. It is the same SYRIZA, who now lies unfoundedly with the government about the provisions relating to local town planning, when he has not prepared a study of a local town plan for four and a half years. It is, therefore, proven, transparent and well-known in the entire Greek society that the subordinated social sensitivities of the Left stop where the need and responsibility starts to transform them into actions. At this very point you stop being environmentally conscientious and, of course, you are turning into creatively vague in order, possibly, to cover your inadequacy to apply solutions with tangible results. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government within just one year and a few months of governance, when we have been faced with unprecedented crises, is without doubt implementing its reform plan by implementing one by one by one by one. In particular, as far as the environment is concerned, we are implementing defoliation, we have introduced the one-use plastics bill, we have brought about a significant European environmental reform, we have brought the provisions on energy savings, we are constantly and in every way seeking to ensure sustainable, green development. Of course, we are talking today about a bill that has as its primary objective the best possible and most appropriate way of protecting the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, I think, undeniable that perhaps the largest of the many confessed problems facing our country's urban and spatial planning are the absence of a specific and clear framework, a map on which it will be able to rely. More specifically, as we are all well aware, the lack of integrated spatial and urban planning has led us to a demonstrable institutional framework with many problems, gaps and ambiguities, which has multi-dimensional and negative consequences for the country, which are economic, development, social, but above all, environmental. For example, as far as my region is concerned, Zakynthos remains on the ice, carcinogenizing for decades, town plans, such as in the Bohalis, Laganas, Duraka, Gardens, Planos, which most of which are tourist areas, which for years has caused considerable problems for the citizens of our island, especially those who have invested in these areas. Just such pathogens attempt to heal today's bill. In particular, the provisions of this draft law provide solutions to problems of construction, deal with environmental and land-use issues, promote the energy upgrade of our building stock and leave a strong environmental and social footprint. It is therefore extremely important to point out that in the context of the acceleration of the urban planning pursued through the provisions of this article, we are starting the largest programme of urban studies, which has ever been carried out in our country, which includes the preparation of five hundred urban projects of EUR 200 million. It is noted that this funding is already secured by the Reconstruction Fund and the European Investment Bank. Therefore, with the implementation of these provisions by 2023, local town planning projects will have been completed in all the tourist regions, and by 2028 we will have local town planning projects throughout the country. As far as the provisions on limiting the outside building are concerned, on property under four acres and after at least six years of age for the owners who wish to build are at least six years old, the Civic Antipolitics again releases cords against the government using arguments which are, at best, unfounded. Here too, he is trying to get some votes to play with the years that we will be able to give. It is, of course, the same opposition, which in the past was in favour of the immediate abolition of derogations, but without, in its usual practice, taking any substantial action. And now that the New Democracy Government has been trying for the first time to correct the bad texts, now that we are going to put things in a row, it is still complaining and seeking reason to lie and condemn the government's work. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in addition to all the other important benefits of this bill, the main thing is that this will also benefit tourism, as through innovative regulations, which are introduced, we will be taking the course of a modern model of development with sustainable, modern, reduced environmental footprints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u326	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u327	The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Refining the State Budget for the financial year 2021’. Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, what time are we going to finish? Based on the ban that exists after 21.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u329	Look. We still have enough speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u330	We have tomorrow, too. We said at first we'd stop at 20:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u331	Look, ladies and gentlemen, I will consult, but the directives that have been given to me - you know that this is not something I can decide now - is that we must conclude with the speakers. Please be patient, please, two minutes, and continue with the speaker. Minister, sit down. We will continue and agree. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u332	I am speaking to you from Thessaloniki, where, unfortunately, the dead in the city are hundreds, unaccompanied and nobody cares for Thessaloniki to fortify today to face the rift of the virus. But some people seem to be making sure that this is a chance. It is a great opportunity for the New Democracy Government to legislate what is best for it, taking advantage of the fact that citizens and respect and apply the restrictive measures, of course unlike the Prime Minister who breaks the quarantine, once again giving the bad example. So the government again brings amendments that are extremely important to a bill, characterised by deliberate ambiguity, so that the Minister can take decisions on his own then do as appropriate. Bad legacy? Example of a bad legacy. This bill obviously makes it difficult to build for the common mortals, makes it difficult to build for small and medium-sized tourist enterprises - because I have heard earlier that it helps tourism - it makes it difficult for the engineers, the staff in the towns, which is called upon to implement provisions and does not know and what will be implemented. And it provides with more photographic provisions extra facilities and services to very large tourist businesses. What better, of course, can we expect from a government when this government celebrates the black record of death? In all this, then, the Minister comes to bring the ultra-persistent bill, on the basis of which he will order town planning in the country. Yes, sir! Let's see. However, it does not legislate to protect vulnerable persons, not to cut their current and water, to extend the disability allowance, as SYRIZA has tabled an amendment today. Let them eat a pancake! You want to put the town planning in order? In what way? By unreservedly introducing another level of spatial planning, time limits that are supposed to speed up the procedures, and on the substance they broaden problems and obviously create new ones. With a last-minute amendment to the spatial draft, you are bringing in a central building service. Science raises hands up! The country, ladies and gentlemen of the government, has no design tool deficit. The government of SYRIZA, Socrates Famelos proceeded to the National Forestry, the Land register, large areas and reforms. The government has a deficit, because of you, vision and planning. And I will focus a little more on the provisions relating to tourism, this sector of economic activity, which, as far as possible, contributes to the national economy, is most affected by the pandemic. He's the one who's going to raise the burden of economic reconstruction. However, the government once again introduces regulations which affect tourist development, but there is no clear concept of overall planning. Even the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis agreed and agreed to the need to adopt a new model of tourism development, environmentally sustainable and economically and socially just, we add. The government, however, legislates to increase inequalities. Unless your forecasts follow spatial planning for tourism. Because he was Mr. Economou who was committed to a meeting with the APRC last November that in the spring of 2020 we would have the spatial planning for tourism, and in fact, I dare say, we believed it, as the head of the study team that took over, according to the design of the previous government, was Mr. Economou and therefore, you were first aware of the execution course. Now, because you were late to bring it, as long as we see that pandemic doesn't prevent you from bringing bills, it's obviously a rhetorical question. The Government of New Democracy is a fighter for the holistic design, wants the citizens hostages of ministerial offices and illegal licensing. He is a perpetrator of the exceptions, of the fragmented interventions, because only in this way can you decide according to your will and serve any particular, few, great interests you desire. But the country today really needs a new model of sustainable tourism development and a spatial planning that should be a front and the guide of the next day. What kind of tourism do we want? How are we going to stimulate the financial footprint? How will we create pillars of diversification of our tourism product? Will we insist on a model of mass tourism bleeding local resources and environmental burdens, or will we go to new forms of thematic tourism, truly, seriously incorporating the principles of sustainable tourism development? There are too many questions and the government does not answer any of them. And of course, under the pretext of normalising the unrealistic building activity, you force small owners to liquidate their properties. Already small and medium-sized owners cannot survive and you are creating a reality of concentration for a few. Our rapporteurs have mentioned them earlier, and so have all our speakers. We're talking about no documentation of your choices. You are premiuming major property to the detriment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and creating conditions of real estate countryside. At the same time, however, you are also legislating towards reducing any other tourist activity. You will allow me one more point. Negative effects have had this effect for other forms of tourism, such as rural tourism, rural tourism and outdoor activities. However, there is also a question of camping, because in Article 34 the conditions of construction for camping, the way you define them, creates too many problems, along with the fact that camping should at the same time comply with previous ministerial decisions setting out their technical and operational specifications. You know that, in the great camping capacity, the overall exploitation to keep the standards goes far beyond the three thousand square meters you set. Our care should therefore be that our tourism product is protected and competitive, especially in a very difficult period, and therefore compliance with modern market trends in the organised tourist camps sector with a clear physical commitment to the natural, cultural, residential environment, respect for the permitted land use and the general specific urban provisions. Therefore, the solution to the problem would be to get a escalating build-up rate, as would hotels. We must not forget that by the law you have brought you the possibility of camping being functionally integrated with hotels. So you strangle small autonomous entrepreneurship and facilitate its development from great slots. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not fair. And I come to Article 11 of the 'introduction' of the amendment. This is a photographic provision that comes to complete the crime committed by this bill against the environment as a whole. You already exclude the coastal space from the marine landfill, unless you're going to bring it. Excuse me, but this is not the Ministry of the Environment, but the real estate agency, which has been trying to secure its clientele for the years to come. And I close, Mr President, by pointing out the government's allergy to local government and its continuing deterioration, which is not unknown. There is nothing that involves democratic processes. The CED is asking you to withdraw the bill. You have not even predicted the consent of the municipality in drawing up local urban plans. So under the pretext of green development and accelerating spatial planning, you really do not take into account any strategy for the long-term development of the country's most important economic activity. But global demand is green fair growth, but it is also a requirement for Greeks, the new generation of entrepreneurs who work for fair and healthy entrepreneurship. However, you are the ones to spit on them once again, which is what I say after great grief. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much, Mrs. Notopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u335	Mr Famele, before I give you the floor and on the occasion of what you have asked me, I would like to say that there has been agreement since the morning that the procedure should be completed today at 20.00. This understanding was made, because based on calculations, at 20.00 all Members would finish. But he came and spoke - and quite rightly - the Chief of Officerial Response, so that this process lasts an hour further. All Members, apart from those who really have a technical problem, will speak. This is Mr Constantopoulos, Mrs Adamou and Mr Karasmanis. All the others, i.e. the seven remaining Members, will speak in order to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I do not understand that. I'd like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u337	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, I do not understand that, especially in terms of the level of human and operational activity. There is the regulation of circulation and precautionary by COVID, tomorrow we have a meeting. I think it is just reasonable and functional to have five or six speakers left for tomorrow, since we have been here since 10.00 in the morning, and we have to prepare for tomorrow too. What is the point of other colleagues speaking today, who cannot even connect? After we continue to discuss the bill tomorrow. Parliamentary representatives are left, we are going to make a recommendation. Honestly, I don't understand it. It seems incomprehensible to me and I don't know why you insist that we stay longer while it's already 20:30 and we've started at 10:00 in the morning! However, I consider it absurd, and I write it down. It is your responsibility, Mr President. We're human beings and we make choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, you can understand that this is a choice that has already been made. I see all colleagues on the screen at the moment. So let's not trouble them tomorrow. Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a long-awaited bill which will lead our country to better planning of the long systems, particularly those of land and maritime planning and better planning of our country's development operations. Systematic theory requires as a prerequisite for environmental sustainability first the design of long systems and then the development of human functions within them. Today's bill clearly comes to serve environmental sustainability and moves in the right direction. The aim of the bill is beyond improving the general framework of spatial legislation and modernising urban legislation. Spatial planning and engraving, it is the organization that protects its nature and functions from uncontrolled spatial human activity, which is extensive in our country, and has led nowhere but an anarchist space, informal settlements without specific and unarmed civil protection and partial industrial development of nearby settlements, thus creating pollution and other nuisances sometimes towards the settlements. In other cases, it has become unorthodox or even erroneous or obsolete land use planning, which should be redefined so that Greece, as a whole, and the local communities, each individually, can develop their potential. In Elias Law, growth is limited by the definition of an extended area of housing control, which may have been the case when it was adopted in the past. But it is now obsolete because it does not allow the development of tourist activities enough, and there are no defined land uses which allow for the establishment, for example, of an industrial park. This results in industries operating close to settlements and parcels, resulting in pollution and other nuisances. And off-project construction is extensive. The bill will give a new impetus to the development of Elias, and that is why we welcome it. The bill provides new tools for integrated spatial and urban planning, which local authorities should make use of in cooperation with the central state to redesign their space and actions by serving the model of sustainable development, which local communities seek. We must not only vote in favour of this bill, but also encourage local society to make full use of it. For our part, we guarantee two things with the new provisions: not only that we offer new tools for urban planning and urban planning, but also that they are accompanied by sufficient funding for their implementation and, sooner or later, timescales. It is noteworthy that it is planned to draw up urban studies within just two and a half years, instead of for ten and fifteen years the duration of these studies and the completion of the projects today. The priority given to tourist areas for the completion of local urban projects by 2023 is very important, while in the rest of the cities integration will be achieved by 2028. The bill introduces the largest spatial planning program ever made in the country. Again for Elias, who aspires and deserves to become an international tourist destination, these provisions are very important. The additional new tools, imported, relate to the activation of the transfer of the building coefficient and the creation of the digital land bank, the establishment of the national land use nomenclature, the modernisation of the new building regulation, the modernisation of the casting expropriations, the electronic procedure for issuing building permits, the electronic identity of buildings and property. It also creates new data in our country, the so-called 'digital green infrastructure', which our country so much needs for its better organisation and good environmental management. A great deal of regulation is the introduction of the withdrawal of buildings and expropriation of floors to protect the cultural environment and the landscape's aesthetics and improve living conditions in smart cities. We support the smart environmentally inclusive city, giving a higher build-up factor in environmentally friendly buildings and zero-energy buildings, while modernising the provisions on accessibility for people with disabilities. The possibility of installing structures such as special ramps inside a line and lifts in buildings, even if there was no original provision in building permit until now. These structures, as long as they serve disabled people, will not be counted against the building coefficient. Furthermore, the provisions on organised business parks, such as the increased rate of construction within them, are important. The introduction of business parks protects the natural environment and public health and is organised, speeded up and further facilitates business activity and important steps are taken towards the improvement of our country's development path. Finally, particular mention should be made of the new regulation of maritime spatial planning, the national spatial strategy for the marine space and maritime spatial frameworks at regional level. The right marine spatial planning is essential for a country like Greece. The draft law transposes provisions of the European Directive No 2014/1989 into Greek law. Maritime spatial planning is the long-term system, the essential condition for the sustainable development of the environmental, economic, social and cultural aspects of maritime areas and for the sustainable use of marine resources. According to the European Directive, Greece should have completed the initial marine design by 31 March 2021. In view of this date, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the House should hold a further debate on maritime spatial planning, one more issue that will be of interest to all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, too. Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to Mr Hatzidakis' efforts to respond to the President of SYRIZA on health issues. The beds of the ITH from six hundred received by the New Democracy made them two hundred. I'm not messing with the details of the numbers. I ask: How many beds from the post-operative recovery units did you remove from the existing hospitals and from the existing recovery units and add them to that number of thousands of two hundred? I say this because there is the directive to reduce 80% of regular surgery in all hospitals in the country, with all that means to our fellow citizens' long-term problems. Secondly, how many beds from the heart rate, coronary units did you remove from all the cardiological clinics of all the hospitals in the country and add them to these thousands of two hundred? And I say it, because coronary virus, but the main cause of death that approaches 50% of the deaths in the modern world is coronary disease. We expect a million to die from coronary and seventeen million from coronary disease. Thirdly, "Write wrong, boy, we didn't understand it well. Anyway, we've made the eth." Who's right, Mr. Mitsotakis' spokesman, Mr. Petsas, who says that the beds of the IFs are money thrown away, or the representative Mr. Petsas who burns up for another six hundred beds? Secondly, for these new six hundred beds, how much has the staff so far been serving at the ICU and how much is the staff you hired for the other ones? Or does anyone have the impression that the wardrobes will treat the sick? Let's go down. When was Mr. Petsas right, Mr. Mitsotakis' spokesman and his government saying there is no second list of incidents, or now that he says it is a sub-species that he doesn't need? And since she's a subterfuge that doesn't have to be, why did it happen? How much money did you pay from the Greek people's tax to make this list, and why did it happen? Who took that money? In any case, even so, I accept, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy is trying to respond. If we compare it to 2012 that, in one evening, the Minister of Health, Mr.Georgiades, then fired three thousand doctors and dismantled primary health care in the urban fabric of our country without accounting to anyone, even this answer, which is challenging for all of us who are followers of the public health system and which we view in favour of the public health system, I accept it as ideological domination of the Left and as political domination of the living social forces. That is why, no matter how provocative it is, the New Democracy is trying to justify the unjustified, even as an apology I accept it in principle. Mr. Hatzidakis tried to say and stipulate that the New Democracy has nothing to do with SYRIZA. I agree with him. Indeed, Mr Hatzidakis, you are the party that closed the eye to the arbitrary construction. You are the culmination of the structured environment and the arbitrary construction, on your day, on the days of your governments, this problem has reaped. You are, finally, the party that stepped on hope, in agony, in the desire of the man who wanted to legalize the tiles under which he was housing his family. You pressed on this desire, on the problem you yourself had created, precisely to manipulate, to extract and buy consciences. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been trying these days to communicate with the health protocols, i.e. telephone calls and e-mails, to communicate with a series of associations in my constituency of Heraklion, which are involved in this matter. I'd like to tell you a few things and convey some thoughts to them. Firstly, we are not talking about the arbitrary house, which prevents people from having access to the sea, or the arbitrary house that offends aesthetics, style, morals, our culture in a pine forest. We are talking about arbitrary cities, 60% of the city of Heraklion, 80% of the city of Gazios, that is, the main trunk of the urban fabric of Crete. We're talking about the arbitrary cities of Eastern Attica. It's not just Matty. We are talking about arbitrary cities in the outskirts of Thessaloniki, arbitrary cities in the Peloponnese and other regions of Greece. Here, then, I would like to tell you about Gaza, the municipality of Malevizi, with twenty-five thousand inhabitants. The out-of-project settlement has essentially been inactive because by implementing the law passed by SYRIZA, most of them settled the buildings they had. A similar picture exists in Heraklion, and I imagine the rest of Greece. One question is: We, in the law passed by SYRIZA, had predicted a certain amount of money from the fines paid by people to go to local government to make, complete, expand, implement city plans, become squares, open the roads, become public spaces, to become "discontinuity" cities. How does this funding of local government go ahead? Secondly, this law, at least the successful one with Heraklion's data, to deal with the arbitrary construction, was practically stuck and not integrated into it, despite the fact that people wanted it because of the indivisible property. It is a question that the government has to answer to us what it is doing and how it is dealing with it. Thirdly, this law has been in consultation for one and a half years and for you all my colleagues, but above all for the world that watches us throughout Greece. Those who watch for knowledge and compliance. One and a half years of consultation with all institutions and all people, with society, compare it with the debate and how the government is promoting it today. A few more specific remarks I would like to make. How much more time do I have, Mr. President? I'm sorry, but I'm not watching the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u343	You're done, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u344	I'm done?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u345	You're in seven minutes and thirty seconds. It's a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u346	Allow me. I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. I'm going to file a memorandum from the Association of Housekeepers outside of Heraklion City Plan. I'll submit it to the Minutes. It concerns issues affected by the bill and warns of a new generation of arbitrary forces if the government's provisions go ahead. I will also submit a letter from the Association of Heraklion in relation to a request from the Association of Heraklion and the Municipality of Heraklion for the self-evident extension, which must be given after the shorter deadline for the correction of the first entries in the Register. To close, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law does not raise much improvements, because you cannot paint an environmentally and ecologically sensitive structure that is the main feature of it is the absolute indifference to the environment and its protection and the absolute submission to the interests of a few. With a word that could also be the title of this bill: Minister, many favors to your few friends, great damage to the many and the environment!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u347	Thank you. Mr. Christos Gocass hear us? Mr. Goka, can you open your microphone? You don't sound like it, Mr. Goka. Let's continue with Mr. Kotroya. Mr. Kotraya, can you open your microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u348	I've opened it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u349	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law in the context of the philosophy of 'environmental protection, investment aid and property protection' gives the green light to launch the largest programme of urban studies that has ever been carried out in our country, while reducing the unregulated structure and giving incentives to business and industrial development, thus contributing to the wider effort to stimulate the economy. But how? Putting order for the first time in the city anarchy of our country. In particular, a five hundred local urban projects training programme is being implemented, the largest one that has been done so far in the country, a budget of EUR 200 million. And because the Greek experience of drawing up such projects is multi-annual and, unfortunately, traumatic, the programme starts immediately, predicting a reduction in the time to draw up the urban studies in two and a half years from the twelve to fifteen years that were up to now and with funding guaranteed with EUR 160 million from the Recovery Fund and EUR 40 million from the European Bank. Aim in 2018 to have been covered by the whole country. The most important thing is that in the second quarter of 2023 local town planning projects will have been approved in about three hundred municipalities, i.e. 32% of the country. The programme shall establish a coordinator to monitor the cooperation of all relevant departments and bodies and certified private engineers in the evaluation of urban studies. The programme as a strategy is certainly combined with the reduction of the unregulated structure. And I would like to stress that when we say "superarch" we do not mean arbitrary or illegal. We mean, without rules, without infrastructure, without order. In the draft law, therefore, this reduces by 10% the building coefficients for the off-project areas and deprives of excellence are abolished, i.e. the derogations for non-project plots below four acres. We are talking about derogations, which were introduced for the first time in 1962 for a transitional supposed period, but which, as always, became permanent in Greece. However, we must stress that no owners are surprised that those who want to build under the existing regime have at least six years to do so. In particular, two years after the transitional period and four more, since the building permit will be valid for four more years, a total of six years. Those who do not make a building permit will be able to build on what the local and specific urban plans will define, as is the case today in the areas where urban planning is available. Local town planning plans should be stressed to start with those areas where there is greater interest in economic activity. In contrast to the non-project construction restriction, the enhancement of organised forms of activity is placed, and the building factor is significantly increased in business parks for industry, as in other organised activities. Another timely issue to which solutions are given is the problem of the transfer of a building coefficient especially to the owners of a building that they cannot build by using the building factor that they would otherwise be entitled to. So what's going on? In fact, the excess of the building coefficient is transferred from areas in which it cannot be exploited in deficit areas, thus solving a problem - take care - which has been afflicting the world since 1978. This is done taking into account the relevant case-law of the Council of State, which has annulled previous relevant laws. A mechanism with the Digital Earth Bank is therefore created that will allow the acceptance and supply of a digital, fast and impersonal builder without being traded. The conditions for the placement of a coefficient zones are also specified so that the transfer of a coefficient does not occur unreservedly, but only in specific areas and by clear rules, in order to maintain the unrealistic nature of all these areas. There is no way that the legalisation of arbitrary acts by transferring the build-up factor will be excluded. The possibility of compensation to the owners of the preserved buildings through the transfer of a building coefficient is finally being fulfilled, since to date these owners unilaterally incur the increased maintenance costs of their buildings. It is also stipulated that anyone who buys a rate should pay the municipality a 5% more, intended to create public spaces. In addition, building permit procedures are simplified and accelerated, by further exploiting technology. It is also worth emphasising that the electronic identity of the buildings and property, where there will be a full recording of the characteristics of each building in our country, is being activated, further contributing to the fight against unregulated and arbitrary construction. At the same time, an effort is being made to modernise the New Construction Regulation through the coverage of omissions and ambiguities. New tools are being introduced, such as providing incentives to owners to withdraw a building on their own initiative and their reasonable compensation in exceptional cases where the state wants to expropriate even individual floors. Another "fair" that is tormenting many Greek citizens, which is closed by this bill, is related to the hormonal expropriations that now provide for their self-righteous lifting, since a long time has elapsed since they have been enforced and uncompensated by the owners, and it is stipulated that this hormonal expropriation can only be reintroduced once, thus exempting the owners from the long-term commitment of their property. Finally, the bill also sets out the issue of energy savings by providing incentives with a higher rate of environmentally friendly buildings, as well as forecasts against the exclusion of disabled people, giving incentives to create easily accessible buildings. One second I want to emphasise Amendment No 625/66, tabled on 3 December 2020, which states what facilities can be built on forest land. I think that in order to protect the cultural and natural heritage, it should be supplemented as follows: to allow intervention in the construction of all those referred to in Article 8, but to be added ‘without observing distances of a thousand metres from declared archaeological sites, declared thermal sources of national importance or other sensitive ecosystems’. It is therefore by closing a bill that organises and places order on construction, on land, but also on the marine environment, with respect for property and the creation of an appropriate development environment. I think it is a bill that should be supported by all the wings of this House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u351	Thank you. Mr Gocas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government claims, for this bill, that this is a very large reform to modernise spatial and urban legislation in order to change the landscape in this crucial issue, which is a matter of development for the country and for the country and for the environment, is of great importance. It therefore hopes that the problem of unregulated construction will be resolved. It motivates the energy upgrade of buildings, as it at least claims, and arrangements for green development, which we will see. It bears the barbaric title, but without the appropriate content, of a great European reform, as the Minister says in his positions. But we see that this is not the case in practice. The response from the institutions has been in many provisions and it is important that there has been a reaction to critical provisions. The CEDEFOP has requested the withdrawal of provisions of the draft law, such as articles on non-project construction and other points on which it has requested transitional provisions to complete projects in the final stage of implementation. It also promotes a personal-centered system with this bill. Instead of transferring responsibilities and resources to the region, at local level, for areas such as planning, central administration to perform the effective role, we have a concentration. In addition, despite the Government’s claim that it is attempting to promote green growth with incentives, this does not seem to be achieved in particular in the case of the renewal of its building potential. These regulations do not move towards sustainable and green urban development. They do not combat unregulated building and modernise the institutional framework of spatial planning in general. There is also the impression that provisions are laid down which serve a few specific ones. The examples of real estate construction were mentioned in the Greek and the facilitation of banks to regulate and settle real estate with the arbitrariness of category 5, which is not the case for the rest of the ordinary citizens. For them, the deadline has expired. Really, why don't you extend this time for all charges of arbitrary? It could be a continuous process over a longer period of time. In any case, with the developments that exist, it will sometimes become necessary for everyone. Whether by transfer or by electronic identity, the issue of the legality of the buildings arises in each procedure. It's just a matter of time before all this is settled. And we ignore the critical juncture, the difficulties that exist and the economic ones, but also the practices in making these procedures. Every little and little time ends, there's an allergy in the expansion hearing on the part of the Ministry, and especially in this current period, it's a reasonable thing. Now, on the individual points, I would like to focus a little on out-of-plan construction. How much does the nuisance really change when we reduce coverage by 10% and instead of two hundred squares in four acres, we build a hundred and eighty six square meters? An unnecessary regulation, meaningless to have the title of serious reform, as well as other reductions for other uses and for larger fields. The point is that micro-ownerships lose the right to build within two years. These micro-ownerships are specific, they are not infinite numerical cases. At some point they'll be zeroed. That cannot be reform. There is a violent change in the value of existing or acquired assets. Who will compensate the citizens for whom economic data are overthrown, but also programs, whether family or investment? In two years' license for building in many cases we know that it is impossible for all of this to exist. The chaos is a leniency expression to describe what will follow without integrated forest maps, without land register, without land use zones, without managered services in the towns of the municipalities. That's not what's happening in two years. Now, also in the out-of-project construction, these arrangements lead to a reversal of investment plans and only enjoy favourable treatment in the case of complex tourist accommodation. So, in the end, it's for hotel businesses and some big investors this whole arrangement you're going through. There is a deficit of organised business reception sites and activities in the province. I would like to say, for example, that in my region, Arta, for forty years we have not been able to have an organised unit, whether BIP, BIP or a business park. How can we talk about the placement of activities? I would like, before I close, to dwell on the abolition of paragraph 11 of Article 51 of Law 4178, where, with the total ban on the construction of all activities in areas of the plains, industrial, commercial warehouses, housing, we consider these areas to be a high-quality land. There is no time limit. There had to be a five-year margin here, as in other cases, because there are plans, planning, there are no BIPs or craft parks, as I have said. Development cannot be ruled out in all these areas. Not all of this can be moved to mountainous areas. Because it is not only suspended for two years, it automatically ceases with the knife to be in force since the law was published. The most fair of local economies for many regions would be to apply the article until at least industrial areas or industrial parks were created. I would like to close, Mr President, by referring to the amendment to the special account of the RES. This regulation, Minister, has caused a deficit of 300 million euros. And who is now called to pay for this damage? The small and medium-sized producers will pay the marble and here the damage you are responsible for, your own regulation. Obviously there is no room for resistance. These units will be delivered to the largest, i.e. the RES to the few. Small ones are actually excluded from new investments and instead of strengthening this whole process, you go back to energy communities as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u353	Thank you. Mrs Catherine Papacosta Palura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u354	Good evening, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I will sound right. Allow me, Mr President, before I begin my draft legislation at the moment, to make a brief reference to the World Disabled People's Day, which we are honouring today. It is a duty for every favoured social state to aim by every means at the integration of disabled people into every aspect of political, social, economic and cultural life. The experience of these people from the Greek urban fabric is, unfortunately, still quite far from their good expectations. The use of public transport, access to archaeological sites, but also to other public buildings, social isolation, exclusion and, in many cases, bulging make the daily life of AMEs difficult and give a negative sign to a country's social policy and sensitivity. But today, the New Democracy Government has shown that its reformist and modernist policy does not leave vulnerable social groups free, legislating and bringing in provisions that optimise their standard of living and I am convinced that this is a welcome event for the disabled, because we are legislating on the building regulation, with the aim of facilitating their accessibility. In particular, this draft law provides the possibility of installing structures such as special ramps, outside the rhetoric, as well as adding lifts to buildings that were not provided for in the original building licence, while it is noted that such structures, which will serve people with disabilities, platforms and lifts, will not be counted to the building coefficient. We are therefore making the buildings more functional, more friendly to our fellow people with motor difficulties, a major interference of this draft law. Continuing, with regard to the other provisions of the bill, as well as its general philosophy, let me use the phrase of an experienced urban villager, Ms. Raniana Klouciniotis, who in the newspaper "Kathemerini", on 30-11-2020, said the draft law intended to upset the water in a lagoon for years now. So in response to this phrase, which reflects today's reality in such a characteristic way, I would like to stress that, with this legislative amendment, which is an overall property reform, there is a need for sustainable development, new investment initiatives with a green sign and a well-informed environmental policy. The provisions of this Legislation further ensure the protection of the environment through the limitation of the non-building project, while strengthening the implementation of an extensive programme for the preparation of local town planning projects and promoting the strengthening and support of the national effort to reconstruct the country. And, of course, these axes are achieved, legislative measures such as modernising the status of land use, encouraging the development of business, protecting the right of property through a number of interventions, such as transferring the building factor, streamlining the status of hormonal expropriations and speeding up urban plans. With regard to the disputed - let me say the term - a provision limiting the unregulated structure, we are finally seeing a horizon in the future where there will be no space for our natural and cultural heritage and, on the other hand, there will be no room for unregulated housing development. Our country must finally be rid of the anarchist, bad aesthetic and anti-environmental construction plan that prevails in it. With the 10% reduction in rates in the non-planned structure, by changing the status of excellence derogations, but also by other steps in an adequate transitional period for all those who wish to issue building permits, we are moving towards the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves. Of course, owners who will not proceed with a building permit retain the right to build on their land, always on the basis of what will be defined by the local and special town planning plans that will be drawn up immediately. In addition, it should be clarified that we do not move on to these changes by surpriseing the owners, who were in direct intention of building them. In fact, the margin is given for six years. Two years to issue the building permit, removing the time required by the approvals of the Forestry and Archaeological Service and four more years in order to be able to complete the construction. In no case, therefore, are those who wanted to build directly, as was wrongly presented by the opposition at the committee meetings. A provision - a cut-off is the introduction of a new revolvered town-building tool, i.e. the removal of buildings and expropriation of floors. In the context of the new building regulation, the building will therefore be withdrawn at the initiative of the owners, for whose implementation specific incentives will be laid down, in order to dismantle areas with an environmental burden. In addition, the expropriations of floors will relate to buildings that prevent monuments, a practice that was first implemented by the Government of New Democracy last summer in a hotel unit in the Acropolis area. Of course, the reformist mood of the bill also lies in provisions such as the modernisation of the new building regulation in which the large number of deficits and ambiguities are dealt with, as well as in the rationalisation of the system of mineral expropriations. This will finally put an end to the end to the endless suffering of citizens from bureaucracy and in these cases we will have flexible, digital and quick procedures, in accordance with our commitments as government. To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have recently received as a government opposition criticism of our legislative initiative in the middle of the koruna pandemic. It is of course clear to all of us that our country has a demanding winter in front of it with enormous challenges for both the preservation of the National Health System and for guaranteeing public health and saving our economy. However, it is undoubtedly legislative initiatives that have been the election commitments of the present government. So we believe in these commitments, but also in the people's mandate, which we received in the elections of 7 July to modernise and reform the Greek state, we will not stop working in this direction at any time, despite the adversities we are facing, in order to stand up to the circumstances and to be worthy of the confidence of the Greek citizens. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the mark on every government and the work carried out by the citizens is not the opposition. And this sign for us is certainly deeply reformative, modernistic and developmental. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u355	Thank you. Mr. Giannoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, because I see from another screen my colleagues from the Officerate are from 10 a.m. in the morning, I fear that the option for this exhaustive procedure has been taken by Mr. Brutsis as a preamble to the working conditions he is preparing for the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u357	I don't understand, Mr. Giannoulis, what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u358	What didn't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u359	Is this about the Bureau? I couldn't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u360	What do you want me to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u361	I do not understand what you said about speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u362	I said about the exhaustive data that was set up. Mr Famelos told you before a human need, that this meeting had been closed a little earlier. I think that Mr Brutsi, the head of industrial relations and conditions, who is more than urging us and preparing us for a long-term labour market without the corresponding result. That's what I tried to say and don't take it personally. I respect the Bureau. Alas! Is the explanation understood? To start my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u363	Absolutely. I asked about the Bureau. The rest is your remarks and you have the freedom to say what you wish. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u364	I do not object to the Bureau. You could, of course, be more sympathetic to the request put forward. However, Mr President, I would like to say that the news is moving quickly and I will give a very simple example of what the Members of the Com mittee of Inquiry, too, support, repeating an almost identical text that has been sent to them from the documentation of the Minister of the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, who has also done so. Some time ago I was informed that on the edge of Olympus there were four owners of a plot that is four acres, common and indivisible. One of these was in consultation a few days ago to sell his own acres of about EUR 10,000 - it is on the edges of Olympus, in Leptokarya, overlooking the sea - to use them for a serious health problem. The answer he received a little while ago from the rest of the co-owners, and especially from one, who is not politically coloured, is that he regrets that he cannot afford that much money, despite the fact that it is a very serious health issue, if it is compatible with the 2 000, he is well. This is a human example. This is the human aspect of the events, of the politicians or of the people, and not the copy - paste texts, which he shares with his dear and respected fellow Members of the Couple, Mr Hatzidakis, to justify the lawfulness of what he is doing on order, as my colleague, either by fraudulently, or by defiance, or by a disastrous mania for that country, has reported this morning. You are actually returning our country and not just with this piece of legislation, you are turning it to the level of centralism and not just because the State Secretary or the Minister will become the major city manager. You also did the same to the Civil Aviation Service and the Civil Aviation Authority, where you suddenly wanted to do the white and to convince us that it is easy through the technology for Athens airport to intervene in an accident that will take place at Kassos airport. Now, there have been a lot of good news against the Opposition Officer on Occasional Opposition. I would like to ask you frankly: the real anxiety, the real bitterness and the real question of how it is done on such an important issue as our health that there is the law of inertia you consider populism to be the law of inertia? I consider it anesthesia by those who have the responsibility of inaction and indifference to prevent evil. Mr Kiilias came in a while ago with an almost two amendments. One is the 100% increase in daily compensation for health volunteers from other corners of the country for northern Greece, and the other introduces part-time work for health workers, doctors and nurses, if I understood well. Why did she not want to respond in a pretext to the reaction of the excellent President, Mrs Sakova, if she would accept SYRIZA's amendment on unpaid overtime of health? I should also like to add to the unpaid subsidiary of the EMCDDA who is currently in a chain that saves lives. Do we believe that only doctors and nurses are those who put their soul and heart and their bodies and their knowledge of the salvation of people? Aren't the wounders? Those who assist in this effort are not? And I continue with a third example of analgesia and indifference that is to provide the supposed Christmas gift, which has started a transaction of subcutaneous and behind-the-scenes hostage, these people, because they hear that some will take it, some will not take it. Are these people's toys? Are these human toys? Of course, Mr President, I am talking about this in a special parliamentary and control regime. Of course, I cannot imagine why all of us must experience - and I agree to tell you the truth - this test of parliamentary control. I think it is the least we can do when others fight for twenty-six hours to keep people alive, but at least do not water us with the toxic gas of the incomprehensible, unthinkable. Do you want to say that in the Chamber two or three MPs should participate, but in Parnitha can embrace each other with the man Mrs Mitsotakis? I admit I don't understand it. I remain in favour of strict compliance with the measures, but I cannot see these differences that apply to others, not a leading state player, the head of executive authority, the government, can behave like a small child scandal playing with an enduro and can be photographed without measures and distances. That is what we are interested in and that is the political stake and it is not any concern or interest in personal life Mitsotakis. Two phrases, Mr President, will haunt this government, two phrases which are neither populism nor demagogy. It is the words of the Director of the "Panikolaos" ICU - it has become widely known to all Greeks - who said that human lives have been lost - I am transporting it - which we could have saved if there had been timely preparation. And a second sentence that will haunt you by the Director of the Intensive Treatment Unit of the Papageorgiou, where he spoke of premedical hospitalization and hypothesis. A million, ladies and gentlemen, cost twenty-switched respirators to help patients, one third of the three million spent by Mr Petsas on the Mitsotakis mandate to learn how to vote in the next election and I hope they will vote against you. Of course I want to remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u366	Approaching time? Do I have to finish, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u367	You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u368	Excuse me. I close by saying - I think I've already shut down, as I understand - that three key points are the ones that characterize this bill, but the most outrageous is what has been formulated, the unprecedented redistribution of the land according to the relationship...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Giannoulis, I told you you've reached nine minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u370	...reminds the time of the stock exchange and I think it's unacceptable. Thank you for your tolerance. Good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Giannoulis. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement. Can you open your microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u372	Yes, Mr. President. It's the circumstances, unfortunately, but we'll all try.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u373	Good. Can you hear me, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately in a pandemic we are faced with a very difficult process, with very serious bills that are before us and which are unfortunately obliged to comment, judge, judge or say that it is right in many directions, but without the possibility of genuine consultation and substantial intervention. The pandemic has deprived a great deal of these interventions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u375	Mrs. Lykoli, can you hear me? You're twice on our screen. You've been connected twice. Maybe you should close one connection, why don't we have a good sound? Let me move on to the next one, so that you can prepare yourself. Let's go back to Mr. Constantinidis from New Democracy and go back to Mrs. Likolis after closing one of the two connections. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a long process, the speaker has the disadvantage that most issues have been exhausted, but he also has the prerogative of the overall picture of the dialogue that has taken place. On the basis of the detailed debate, therefore, I recognise the completeness and unreservedness of the draft law to be passed. I welcome, on the one hand, the bravery of the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which has dared areas in distortions that have been embedded in spatial and urban legislation for years and, on the other hand, the wisdom and flexibility it has shown during the consultation with the result that there are changes in the original radical form of the legislation. The alternative tools for rationalising housing development in the country finally prevailed. Thus, without the basic idea of environmentally respectful growth at all, the non-project ownership of the four acres was protected, which has been a building steadfast for decades for the citizens of the country, unlike the Left, but because New Democracy, the economy and ecology are not incompatible. The opposite is true. The current government with too many and contagious policies strongly and systematically supports the green economy. Sadly, the opposition, and in particular the SYRIZA, rather than overhearing environmental proposals, is resorting to political warfare. Where he denounced derogations and off-project construction, he is actually defending it for small-party targets. At the same time as Mr Tsipras asks for a climate-neutral economy from the Step of the House, if possible, the immediate decompensation from lignite, at the same time plundering and blocking the huge struggle that is taking place to cover the lost time of his administration in this top issue. In fact, this is the main reason why the project and the timetable of the transition become so pressing for my region. It is known to everyone that at least after 2015, with the signing of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the European Green Agreement and the finally ejection of the cost of pollutants from eight euros to twenty-five, lignite generation has become uncompetitive and the operation of lignite plants has been uncompetitive. When did this happen? But to the government of SYRIZA. And you know what else happened at the same time? They accumulated huge private debts to PPC of three and a half billion. Do you know how much of this is collectible? The 700 million at best. At the same time it was agreed to sell 51% of PPC's clientele without any price. That's a good deal, not for PPC, for its competitors. NOME auctions were applied, a model by which PPC sold power below costs, which damaged hundreds of millions. Interesting practice. For the state? No, for the private ones, who had even come to export this power that they bought cheap. But in the same period: Sale of IPTO. Efforts to sell lignite units, with no minimum price. Rehabilitation of the interconnection project of Crete. They have finally taken down PPC and are coming today and are talking about significant increases in the invoices made for its rescue. The average in the same period of short- and long-term unemployment, that is to say 2017-2019, reached 15 thousand only for the Kozani Regional Unit. They received the lignite production near 20000GWh in 2015 and delivered it close to 10000GW in 2019. They knew and had planned the closure of units in 2021 with unilateral extensions, without any provision. But since we said what they did, let's see what they didn't do. They had no provision for the employees in PPC, which would be closed on the basis of their specific forecasts. They had no plan to compensate for lost jobs. They had no approved ESRB. They hadn't taken environmental studies. They didn't have any territorial plans. They had no organized industrial zones. They had no environmental studies on restorations. They didn't, of course, define instruments. And of course, they didn't have a plan for a fair transition. They didn't end up with funds. And today they are talking about the desertification of the area. They stress the anxiety of the citizens and undermine the effort. They left PPC and the area on abandonment, and today they do the honorers. That is the truth, that in a year with a lot of effort, huge progress has been made. Hatzidakis, Mousouroulis, Kasapides, are being choked to cure uncertainties and uncertainties of many years. Here today, with this bill, another not small but a foundation enters into this effort. With the defoliation zones, with the territorial plans, the special and local towns and towns, we are going to meet a top condition of this process that should have been ready long ago. And SYRIZA's representative is lying to us because we assign, he says, his training to PPC. As if we're giving them to a stranger. Because he has knowledge and adequacy we give them. To get it right and quickly we give it to you. You know what's gonna happen? Some will hear them, and they will be accused of wanting to fail the transition. We're leaving them in their devastation. A new action for western Macedonia is added every day by the government's programme. Two weeks ago a targeted programme was announced in the primary sector for young farmers. Last week, a specific programme of ECU 107 million for employment. Today, with this bill, discreet treatment for small photovoltaic and energy communities in our region. We are building up, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow in western Macedonia with those who really care about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u377	Thank you. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor. Mrs. Lykoli, can you hear us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u378	Yes, Mr. President. I was saying - and I will now briefly, because some things, Mr President, have been said before - that we have a difficult treaty in which the debate is taking place in plenary, but we also have a serious exploitation, in our view, of the pandemic and indeed to a certain extent of concern now. The bill we are debating today in Parliament is a very serious bill. Nevertheless, we can see that it comes in the most difficult conditions with a consultation which is questionable at a very large level. At the same time, a bill will be added which will come next week, serious bills for the ADP, for public procurement, for the establishment of the Municipal Police, for a new law on self-government and for how to vote now for the elected Members. And all this in the middle of a pandemic and with this kind of debate in plenary. So, isn't there anyone admiring this? It's to admire it. Now, as far as today and the very important ones are concerned, the consultation that took place on this bill again had this negative sign. It was a consultation that was held to take place, without any real intervention by the institutions which should have the first say, such as self-government. Because when you talk about spatial planning, about self-government, about local communities, about the place and about the pacts that it has created with the inhabitants in terms of at least old cases, which are still pending and of many cases that are desperately looking for a rational solution. So none of this has happened. You know, the problem, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is that the more democratic a society and its political system, as long as there is real faith in progress, representativeness, openness, equality, the public space of these societies must be shown at the same time - it is a sign of spatial planning - that it respects spatial planning. Town planning is often the subject of historical studies, but also of political admiration from everyone else. Take the cities of Britain, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian countries, modern Germany and the United States for example - why not? - and in general the central core of the Western world countries. And this is always in comparison with the respective cities of other countries, the so-called third world, with the extensive barracks, which are tempted to the exact districts of those foreigners and the state-of-the-art globe hotel establishments that we take in miniatures when we travel. In bad faith, therefore, each country's spatial and urban legislation reflects the level of its culture, its political priorities and the dominant ideas in relation to social stratification. It's not just topographical and environment. Well, it's a lot more than that. It is about equality and is the dominant pillar of a true democracy. Today, then, we are discussing a spatial planning bill. Communications, and if it has been played in the last few days! The Minister responsible - with all due respect to his face - presented this as an epitome of a huge reform and, indeed, of a modern reform. Look, we at PASOK and the Change Movement when we hear these two conditions, modernisation and reform, we are at least the ones who lift our sleeves and say we are here for it. So we can judge it because we have the historical sign to judge this. Energy regulations are therefore introduced. The accelerating minister is trying to convince us that the government has an ecological consciousness, a green conscience. A very nice, beginning, waist and end, with a plot that one can watch as supposedly interesting. The government is really trying to look too green, much more than it really is. For its own micro-political reasons, it sells this to the people. But to others, he sells other things. We do not forget that it is the Minister himself who brought in last May, and his prolongation only voted, a clear anti-environmental bill, Law No.46852022 - we do not forget it - for which the place was then plunged, Mr. Minister, and which at the time stressed the Change Movement that it only encouraged the large RES producers. It limited any development prospects for small producers and created new social inequalities. We do not know more than you know and as you understand, so you knew the political bet and the political sign and accepted it completely. So the same pattern is observed in this bill. And what is annoyingly emerging from the provisions of this bill once again is the intense classicity. Hold this, or we'll find it in front of us in the future. I'm sure of that. The classicity of a conservative government, which lastingly takes care of the great and the powerful, at the expense of the small and the medium-sized ones. It is not by chance, moreover, that the previous amendment by the Minister for Digital Governance for the ELTAs, in which the place resurrected for exactly the same reason as an amendment for the ELTAs. Those who were supposed to turn Right to the Central Left were finally found to be fine with her, lately passing through, before the bill on the fight against smuggling was passed, unrelated provision with which the government disregards the public interest, as well as the interest of the officials. In order to do what? To serve once again the great private investor, who, of course, after preconsensual - is not doing these things on your own - flanking around the corner. So we are discussing a strong class bill, ladies and gentlemen, with a modernistic wrapping brought by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. In the big interests and banking interests, for example in the Greek, it gives exceptions to go far above buildings and indirectly, even giving them free additional measures. The story's got the bonuses. And it contains provisions such as those concerning banks that can regulate and settle high-grade properties and arbitrary practices, while the deadline for ordinary citizens has now expired. Let's see a size class, as we say to the caterpillar. So their will - the banks - once again. Again and again our Government helps them to understand it well and to make it their estate that both of them are on the way to the common road to move forward together and all the consequent ones, such as auctions. Well, let's make it clear here and out something. We in the Change Movement are obviously not against entrepreneurship. We have brought a reform framework all these years for entrepreneurship and even by supporting small and large entrepreneurs in all their plans and by opening up new horizons in this area. This will not, however, stop us defending the equivalence of rights and obligations for all and everywhere in a weighted and rational manner. Because it is not allowed in a democratic society, in a democratic political system, a government that respects itself to give no bank, however important it may be, more rights than the ordinary citizen. A government that respects itself under great titles of modernisation and the like of urban and spatial legislation, is not allowed to pass on provisions that despair the small property of land outside the project, thus destroying the small and medium-sized rule of owners of the country and, unfortunately, creating new big-scales. And let the government not forget that it is just the friends who are big enough to create Astrapogianus - so again the story - which is so excruciating. Clearly, then, they rub their hands the big players who can now buy the most useless parcels, eliminate the property of small and medium-sized ones, even promoting their own special town plan. And we make it clear once again that we in the Change Movement do not defend immunity in any way. We don't think we're gonna have a class coming in. However, we say an emphatic 'no' to abolish as is the non-project construction at the expense of ownership today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm ending up. We are calling for sustainable development with urban planning, with modernisation in town planning and town planning, with rationalisation of things that have to do in decades and, of course, with respect. Let me also say it on the specific responsibility of the Government's Interior Sector. You can't do something without listening to self-government. You put her on the plaster, created for creating municipal and regional councils that do not have responsibilities and took them to the artificial majority of economic committees...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u379	Mrs. Liikali, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u380	At least let the local government have one breath. That's the only way you can go. That is why we cannot go along with it. We can't agree. You look elsewhere, we look elsewhere. We're in quite different directions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u381	Be well, Mrs. Liikali. Because I'm looking at time, I'm just telling you to know you've reached ten minutes. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin again by saying that it is not possible for the legislative initiative to go ahead and for bills that are so important, which raise so many objections from the relevant bodies with these procedures in pandemic conditions. It is not possible to legislate under these circumstances and on unrelated issues relating to the pandemic. And since I am talking about these, we have tabled a number of amendments - tabled by our President and our parliamentary group - which relate to the pandemic. And they have to do with the pandemic because we have to stop paying doctors with applause and finally pay for their overtime. We want you to accept the amendment. Today we need to know what is being discussed in the Committee on Infectious Substances. These minutes have remained a seven-sealed secret. However, the amendment on reconnection to those who have cut electricity, water or gas must be passed today and the other networks of general interest must be stopped to those affected by the pandemic. I heard Mr. Hatzidakis talking to us about the COT. The CoR does not include all those who have been affected today by the pandemic. Come on, Mr. Hatzidakis, on our islands, tell seasonal employees and explain to them what KOT means and if that covers them. Come tell the businessmen with a seasonal business and they can't pay the electricity today if they're covering what you're saying. Now let's get to the point of the bill. The bill, as I have said in committee, has a heavy title, that it will stop the off-project construction. Is he doing it? Just the opposite does. It doesn't actually restrict her. What it does is change the terms of the off-site construction project for the benefit of big property. It makes a violent redistribution of property to the detriment of small and medium-sized property for the benefit of SETE and BSE of major property. I have heard the committee say that for unregulated tourist development - obviously in reply to me, what I said - it is the non-project construction that is to blame. He's absolutely right. That's true. But which out of plan construction? The small plot or the large properties? What out of plan construction are we talking about today? Because what you are coming to do today is for you to forbid small owners to build, not the big ones. You give the big ones incentives and facilities. To build a hotel, excellence is in eight acres, but through exceptions, we reach the four acres. Increasing by 5% to cover half-way spaces. And we have the new one: Tourist villages, mixed small-scale tourist accommodations, starting from fifty acres. Do you want me to tell you what happened right now that we're talking about Rhodes? Do you know what's going on at Champikas Beach? They have come down to collect small property to unify them and make mixed tourist accommodations in which they will build houses with a high build-up rate competing with contractors, competing the property and actually go sell the houses, destroying an area. Is this how you limit off-site construction? By eventually destroying the environment? Because that's what you finally achieve with this bill. I told you in committee today, in pandemic conditions that we all discuss about how to diversify the model of development of tourism, do you come to bring this bill that actually creates greater concentrations of tourist activity? Honestly, what design is subject to this logic? You are talking about local town plans and you say they will be done very quickly. First of all, you have not explained enough why you did not take advantage of the ready funding that we had for local town planning projects at municipal level. You have not answered us and you have not answered what Mr Famelos said, because the funding was there and you have not taken advantage of it. Go now and make local town planning at the municipality level, creating a decay in planning. In fact, there is no town planning at the level of municipality, given that the special projects are above local urban projects. But even that's what you're telling us it's going to be too fast. The design tools of a designer are specifically for local town planning projects. It's the forest maps you've stopped. They're the real estate maps that haven't been completed. They're the road descriptions you didn't put them in the bill. They're the raid demarcations that only individuals do on their own. The delimitation of the hayalus, the archaeological zones, all of which have been completed, so that one can say that the local town planning projects can be implemented in a short time? Let me now go very quickly, Mr President - and thank you - on the subject of maritime spatial planning. In fact, what you do is disconnect the coastal space from the marine spatial planning. This is obviously again a gift to SETE and BSE, which were afraid of not ratifying the Barcelona Protocol. But with this withdrawal, what are you doing? You break down marine spatial planning, because coastal uses are those that affect marine spatial planning and vice versa. So you are once again creating a spatial plan, which is a rag design, as our rapporteur has quite rightly described it. Therefore, this is how you contribute to a fragmentary arrangement, ultimately leading to deregulation. I would like to close with one reference to Article 137, which deals with exceptional constructions in the terrestrial ports. There it is understandable that, at the moment, there is a demand that security requirements be constructed at the gates of Schengen quickly. However, together with the necessary infrastructures, it is possible to build publishers and fortresses, which we all know how they have been exploited in ports and what they have done around them. At the same time, you do not put a limit on when the master plan should be approved, so that there is also a time horizon for pressure, so that there is a clear and correct authorisation for these constructions. So we are asking you to limit yourself to the necessary, i.e. the port office, the sanitary facilities and the necessary Schengen security facilities, and to set a time limit. To close, I want to tell you something. With beautiful titles, you are once again hiding your policy of strengthening the greats to the detriment of small and medium-sized ones. Very soon they'll understand, and then I want to see what you have to tell them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u383	We are completing the process with Mrs Constantina Adamou from Mera25. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u384	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you for the reason you give me. And good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin my speech by expressing my deep and sincere gratitude to all doctors, nurses and other health staff in all hospitals in our country for their superhuman efforts, especially in the last few years. Once again we are called upon to legislate on minor issues at a time when the strengths of our national health system are being tested by the consequences of the health crisis. The government has left our National Health System intact both as far as medical and nursing staff and infrastructure and logistic equipment are concerned. At a time of severe health precariousness, our country is from the last of the European Union's state health expenditures, resulting in the self-evident social demand for recruitment of doctors, nurses, traumatists and other support staff, as well as for increasing and strengthening intensive care units, to look utopian. In full resentment with the real needs of society, it is evident that the government invests in communication management of the tragic consequences of pandemic, based on the esteem and over-treat of the country's health personnel, but also on the shadowy and parallel systems of case counting. But I move on to the bill to be passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is choosing to vote in this House today in the urgent procedure of another bill, which is not related to topicality, nor is it responding to the current concerns of the citizens and the needs of the market. Ignoring the more than a thousand comments of consultation, the CEDEFOP's proposals, the Technical Chamber's suggestion, as well as the general criticism of bodies and experts, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, taking advantage of the circumstance of the ban on meetings, goes undisturbed in the vote on another bill, a monument of poor legislature. Despite the opposite of the government's declarations, the new planning bill not only modernises the town's town's planning issues, but introduces new methods of Rusphetan planning management in our country. The positions of the competent ministers leave no doubt in this regard. The proposal to abolish the derogations on lands below four acres in areas outside the building project, while giving the owners concerned the right to build within a transitional period of two years, is indicative of the culture of the regional planning options of the ministers. They are, in fact, exorbitantly responsible ministers to expel landowners into running to find, borrow money, to make it possible to build and exploit their off-project small property, thereby abolishing the land-based choices they bring to the parliament. It is clear that the granting of a transitional grace period does not guarantee regulation outside the construction project, but is speeding up its deregulation. By means of the Ministry's legislative intervention, small owners are placed under a hard hostage regime, as if they do not rush to find resources to build, the existing risk of losing the value of their property and as a result of the forced sale of their property as much as to privileged persons. This approach can be characterized by future historians as the beginning of the time of warning rousphetology in the Greek area. We saw the Minister for the Environment Kostis Hatzidakis on Greek television confirming apologies to the owners of these lands that they will have additional time to build up to six years. In other words, it did not produce a time-limit for the next elections. This statement unequivocally illustrates the attitude of the choices of zero political costs for people who handle the fate of our country's settlement organization. The transitional period under no circumstances can be considered sufficient to rescue all small property, particularly in a period of resale of public services due to the pandemic. The abolition of derogations in conjunction with the new regulations on spatial planning in the non-project areas, without all drawing up local spatial plans, contribute to creating a climate of legal insecurity, which ultimately acts as a back-up to investment. Legal insecurity will be consolidated as long as the competent local services of the LAG remain subordinated and without practically being provided with the source, precise amount and the allocation of funding for the preparation of local spatial plans, which have increased technical specifications, and are not interconnected in any case with the overall strategic climate change response plan in coastal and coastal zones. It is therefore clear that the new landfill law is characterised as environmentally friendly by the Minister, as this speeds up unregulated construction by setting spatial integration targets, which are practically impossible to achieve under the present conditions. In addition, the regulations promoted create additional vagueness regarding the cases of salt-card derogations in zones up to five hundred meters around the settlements with a face-to-face on the road, as well as what is going to happen in areas characterised as high productivity land. The categorisation of the reduction in the building rates provided for in the new planning bill appears to favour only the organised receptors, i.e. complex and mixed tourist accommodations, which clearly makes the Government's intentions to support mass tourism and the preferential treatment of tourists at the expense of small and medium-sized property. Its statement that the spatial planning plans will start from our islands, NATURA 2000 areas and the landscapes of special natural beauty with fast-track procedures so that the tourist exploitation of these areas is not delayed gives rise to nightmares for those of us who love the beauty of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The delayed sensitivity of the Ministry for the Environment is evident from the deterioration of the Body of Inspectors and Auditors of the Environment, which is transformed into a simple secretariat, in the opposite direction from the initial government plan of Pissaridis, which provided for its upgrading to an independent authority. The auditing of compliance with the environmental standards of industries and large enterprises is now entrusted to individuals with what this may mean for the quality and reliability of the results. At the same time, this bill intensifies bureaucracy in the approval of permits and architectural councils, due to the unexplained involvement of the Ministry of Culture in the procedures. To close and on the occasion of today, which is a World Day of Persons with Special Needs, I would like to emphasise something in relation to the arrangements for sustainable accessibility, as described in Articles 117 to 123. I am in agreement with the effort made to integrate small and medium-sized enterprises into the social fabric. However, this integration effort should be permanent and not opportune. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this bill is another attempt by the government to take advantage of circumstances in order to legislate reactively on the environment and on an equal footing with the country. The bill, which we have to vote on tomorrow - since the vote will finally take place tomorrow - speeds up environmental over-use both in the short and long term. It does not solve to any extent the current problems of the place, while on the contrary it is privileged for large hotel complexes, industries and banks. This piece of legislation is challenging against small and medium-sized property. So we urge you to withdraw it, really listening to the pulse of society, but also to the proposals of the relevant bodies, which will bear the burden of its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-03-S1-commons.u386	With the agreement of the House at 22.04 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, December 4, 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion under No 3/3/26-10-2020; a topical question to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs of the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece and Members of his parliamentary group on "To protect the income of workers, to increase the basic salary, to restore the TSEs" and b) legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Moderation of Spatial and Urban Legislation".
