ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, let me tell the House: The Ministers of Interior, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, State, Deputy Minister to Prime Minister, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 21 February 2020: “Political development prospects of local government bodies, regulation of matters of competence of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions”. It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Ministers for Health, Finance, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Rural Development and Food and Statement, and the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport submitted a draft law on 21 February 2020: “Prevention, protection and promotion of health – Development of public health services”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK General discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, blunt and individuals with other problems reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 February 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, a single at the outset and on articles. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Palioura, has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the registration system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, Directive 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, ampoule and persons with other problems reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. The purpose of the draft law is to harmonise Greek legislation with Directive 2017/1564. The provisions of this Directive correspond to the provisions of the Treaty of Marrakesh, with a view to improving the availability and cross-border exchange of certain protected works and other objects of protection in an accessible format for the benefit of the blind, blunt and people with other problems of reading literature. In this way, a compulsory exception is introduced to certain copyright and related rights, as they have been harmonised by Union law. In particular, the Directive permits, without the author's permission and without payment, the competent authori­ties to produce copies of an accessible format of works in which they have legal access or to make available, distribute or borrow those copies on a non-profit basis on a benefit­ing or other competent body for their sole use from a beneficiary. The possibility to produce a copy of an accessible format project shall be acquired by the beneficiary or person acting on his behalf, provided that the beneficiary has legal access to the project and the copy is intended for its own use. In other words, the use of certain protected works and other objects of protection is permitted for the benefit of blind, ampoule and persons with other problems of reading literature. The package of measures introduced are consistent with the perfection of the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which guarantee the right of disabled people to full social and professional integration and participation in terms of equality and justify positive measures for them. This provides for the conversion of works into a format accessible to persons with disabilities, without the author's permission and without the remuneration, and for the obligation of issuers with projects in a digital format to provide them with the same conversion. Accordingly, provision shall be made for the protection of the legitimate interests of intellectual property and related rights, in particular by taking preventive and dissuasive measures to exclude the illicit reproduction and disposal of works. As a fundamental condition for the conversion into an accessible format, prior legal access to the project is required and it is therefore necessary for the competent bodies to take appropriate measures to prevent unauthorised reproduction, distribution, presentation or disposal to the public of works in accessible format. Some of the regulations introduced by this draft law are already included in the Ministerial Decision No 98546/2007, which regulates reproduction issues for the benefit of blind and deaf. With the incorporation of Directive 2017/1564 the matter is now globally and uniformly regulated for the sake of systematic cohesion in an article, namely Article 28a of Law 2121/1993. In particular, it is possible not only to competent bodies, but also to beneficiaries or persons acting on behalf of the recipient, without the authorisation of the project creator and without payment, to carry out any operation necessary to enable them to produce a copy of an accessible project format, intended for exclusive use by themselves. It is foreseen that each copy of an accessible format must fulfil the condition of respect, integrity of the project, taking into account the changes required to make the project accessible to a different format. The obligations of the competent bodies shall be defined in the case where they do so. It is clarified that the beneficiaries receive the same compensation for the provisions of the draft law on the use of educational establishments, primary, secondary and tertiary education, as that which they receive for the use of the same establishments. Reproduction, presentation and disposal of work to the public without the right of the beneficiary and without payment for the benefit of deaf persons shall be authorised where such uses are directly linked to their disability and are not of a commercial character to the extent required by that disability. More specifically, on the basic articles, as a work as defined in Article 2(1) of the Directive, every work in the form of a book, a magazine of scientific or other, newspaper or other form and notarisation, including parts thereof, shall be considered. The concept of the project also includes the illustrations contained in the above works. The project can be embedded in any instrument and have any form, including digital and audio, such as audio books. It should be legally published or otherwise made legally available to the public. Beneficiaries also include visually impaired persons. It was considered that the term ‘blush’ unduly restricts the definition of the recipient, as it refers to a single specific problem of vision and not to the overall scope of application falling within the protectionist purpose of the Directive. For this reason, the most appropriate and widest terms were ‘sighting problems’. The copy shall then be specified in accessible format. Accessible formats include, for example, writing Braille, large printers, customized e-books, audio books and radio transmissions. Finally, it is defined as the ‘competent body’, which has been preferred instead of the ‘authorised entity’ as it is not an entity or entity authorised by one. This would require preventive control, which is not permitted in accordance with Directive 2017/1564, and would adversely affect the functionality and effectiveness of regulation. In addition, the term is used in the previous legislative regime. It is a body authorised or recognised by the Member State to provide education, training, customised reading, access to information on a non-profit basis, and may even be a public or non-profit organisation providing those services to the beneficiaries as one of its main activities as an institutional obligation or in the context of its public interest, such as libraries, educational institutions and other non-profit organisations, public or private serving beneficiaries. It should be noted that the term ‘competent body’ does not include natural persons. Paragraph 2 of the new Article 28A now provides for the possibility not only of competent bodies but also of beneficiaries of certain uses. In particular, beneficiaries may, without the permission of the project creator and without remuneration, carry out any operation necessary to enable them to produce a copy of an accessible project format in which they have legal access and which is intended for exclusive use by themselves. A third natural person acting on behalf of a beneficiary may carry out the same actions. The competent bodies may carry out any operation necessary not only to produce a copy of a work in an accessible format in which they have legal access but also to present, make available, distribute or lend that copy either to a beneficiary or to another competent body for a non-profit purpose and for its sole use by the recipient. The production of copies of an accessible format and its use in accordance with the terms of this Regulation shall only be possible for projects in which the beneficiaries or the competent bodies have legal access. The concept of legal access includes, for example, the acquisition of the project by means of a contract of sale, donation or legal acquisition of the project in general, including the legal transhipment of the project from the Internet. If access to the project is not legal, the production of a copy of the project in an accessible format also constitutes a breach of intellectual property rights. In accordance with paragraph 3 of the new Article 28A, an agreement contrary to these fundamental provisions shall not be permitted. A contractual provision intended to prevent or restrict the application of this exceptional provision shall not be permitted. In other words, it is compulsory for the purpose of protecting the disabled and avoiding all kinds of circumvention. Paragraph 4 of the new Article 28A provides that when producing a copy of an accessible format, the integrity of the project should not be affected, taking due account of the changes required to make the project accessible to a different format. In addition to any changes that may be necessary to convert or adjust the project in order to produce copies of an accessible format, they may also be possible changes that may be required when the format of a project or object of protection is already accessible to some beneficiaries, but not to others due to different disability or incapacity or due to a different degree of disability or disability, and further conversion or adaptation is required to produce an appropriate format. Article 5 provides for the cross-border exchange of copies between Member States of the European Union. In particular, it shall be laid down that the competent body, without the authorisation of the creator of the work and without payment, may carry out the operations referred to in paragraph 2 on behalf of a beneficiary or other competent body established in another Member State of the European Union. A beneficiary or another competent body may also obtain or have access to a copy of a project in an accessible format by a competent body established in another Member State of the European Union. With regard to the cross-border nature of the arrangement in relation to third countries, ‘Contracting Parties to the Marrakesh Treaty’, points out the existence of Regulation 2017/1563 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on a cross-border exchange between the Union and third countries copying an accessible format of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, ambiguous or persons with other problems of reading literature, which extends that restriction automatically to cross-border relations between Greece and third countries that have ratified the Marrakesh Treaty. The Marrakesh Treaty imposes certain obligations concerning the exchange of copies of an accessible format between the European Union and third countries which are parties to the Treaty. The measures taken by the Union to fulfil those obligations are contained in Regulation 2017/1563 and should be interpreted in conjunction with Directive 2017/1564. In view of the immediate effect and the binding nature of the Regulation regulations throughout the European Union, as well as the resulting non-recurrence of such arrangements in national laws and regulations, the provisions of the Regulation are not included in this draft law. Furthermore, Article 6 provides that in the event that the competent body performs the acts referred to in paragraphs 2 and 5, it shall adopt and maintain practices in order to ensure that it distributes, presents and makes available copies of works in an accessible format to beneficiaries or other competent bodies, that it takes appropriate measures to prevent unauthorised reproduction, distribution, presentation or disposal to the public of copies of works in an accessible format and that it demonstrates due diligence and maintains records of project management and copies of them in an accessible format. In any case, the competent bodies may take into account the standards and guidelines drawn up by the National Library of Greece. The competent body should also publish and update on its website or in other ways - online or otherwise - information on how it complies with those obligations. The competent body shall provide in accessible format to beneficiaries other competent bodies or beneficiaries at their request the list of works of which it has copies in an accessible format, as well as those formats, as well as the name and contact details of the competent bodies with which it has exchanged copies of works in an accessible format, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 5. The framework of these arrangements ensures the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of copyright holders and related rights. Paragraph 7 establishes an obligation for issuers to provide the competent entities in a digital format with project records provided that they keep them in a digital format. This is a regulation which has already been in existence, which is fully part of the Directive's finality and has been maintained in order to enhance the effectiveness of the present provisions and to facilitate the benefit of them. In order to ensure that the regulation does not remain incomplete and to make its practical application easier, it is clear that in the event of non-compliance of the issuers, the provision of Article 946 of the Code of Civil Procedure which provides that if the debtor fails to fulfil his obligation to undertake an act which cannot be done by a third person and its business is conditional solely on the will of the debtor, the court shall condemn him to carry out the act and, in the event that he does not carry out it, automatically sentence him to a penalty of up to EUR 50,000 in favour of the creditor and in personal detention as one year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two more minutes, Mr President. Thank you very much. Paragraph 9 of Article 7 states that beneficiaries shall receive the same compensation for the purposes regulated by these uses of primary, secondary and tertiary education, which they receive for uses of the same writings for non-beneficiaries. This makes it easier for imaginative students, students and students to access training courses, while ensuring the legitimate interests of the beneficiaries. Finally, paragraph 12 of the Article provides that reproduction, presentation and making available to the public for the benefit of deaf persons may be allowed without the permission of the beneficiary and without the payment of any fees, where such use is directly linked to their disability and in so far as they are not of a commercial character. Ladies and gentlemen, while slowly leaving the economic crisis behind us, we are, unfortunately, in the face of deep economic and social disparities that have been before, but have been even more intensified during it. The sensitive groups of people with disabilities were affected and stayed even longer, while they are the ones most in need of a future creative and not submerged in unemployment and social exclusion. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a deeply social issue, which, as politicians, we are called upon to make the best decisions so that our state can evolve into a substantial state of law, which will offer equal opportunities to all. Certainly with the current ratification of the European Union, we are not radically changing the current situation, but we are now setting a new legislative framework on which the education and further culture of disabled people will become more accessible and accessible, without financially burdening themselves and their families. This draft law is a first step, a step that we are sure will be the beginning of a serious and responsible effort, so that people with problems of sight and hearing who are not better, can soon feel that they are not marginalized in terms of knowledge, science and culture. We are fully aware, but we are also determined to proceed directly to further arrangements for the benefit of the blind, blunt, deaf, and people with other problems of reading literature, such as, for example, people with dyslexia, who are also an extremely vulnerable part of our society. We must not forget, after all, that some great artists were facing serious problems in their sight or hearing during their artistic course and perhaps at the moment, at the moment, we should also serve a sense of law to all these prominent personalities of culture, helping people with similar problems of vision or hearing to have access to education, culture and spiritual creation. This is an opportunity in additional knowledge that Da Vinci because of his strabismus, Edgar Dega because of the reduced vision, Monet because of the waterfall and Beethoven because of the lack of hearing, could not have. For all these important reasons, and after thanking the Minister responsible, Mrs Mendoni, for the confidence she has shown in my face to recommend the vote on this bill, I call on all of Parliament's political forces to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u4	We continue with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Rallia Christidou, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in plenary session to discuss the incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 1564/2017 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 13 September 2017 on permitted uses of protected works for the benefit of the blind, blunt and other people with problems of reading literature. In essence, our debate concerns the amendment of Law 2121/1993 to bring the law into line with what the Treaty of the World Intellectual Property Organization, known as the 'Marrakech Treaty'. The Government of SYRIZA had first prepared a draft law incorporating Directive 1564/2017 and put it in public consultation in the first week of February 2019. He then proceeded with tabling the bill in the House, at the beginning of June, but because of the accelerating elections, he did not finally get to vote on it. Therefore, instead of the new leadership of the Ministry as soon as it took up the vote on the ready law, it preferred to keep it in drawers for eight months and reprocess it, but very important points of it. This eight-month delay seems to have been noted for two reasons: Firstly, the obsessive pursuit of the new leaping leadership in what was done on SYRIZA in culture. The Minister has already replaced all the administrations of the Ministry's supervised bodies, placing party "locals" at every post, with unfortunately reduced qualifications. He changed the composition of the CAS, in order to have them under its control, with a leading example of changing the Board's attitude regarding the ancients at the metro station in Thessaloniki. It also reached the point of legislating to clear the sinful Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture, because in this fund the SYRIZA Ministers discovered and sent to justice significant financial irregularities. We can mention many other similar examples of this obsessive agony to eliminate any trace from the SYRIZA period to the Ministry of Culture. In the context of this anguish, therefore, it must appear that SYRIZA's draft law was imperfect and bad and that the New Democracy would bring us something better. But there is also a second reason for the eight-month delay and it has to do with another obsessive idealism that runs the policies of the New Democracy at all levels. I am referring to the neoliberal obsessional refusal of any supervisory role of the state, whether it relates to the functioning of the market, whether it concerns climate change, or if we are discussing today, namely the protection of the legitimate interests of intellectual property rights holders. In fact, what difference does the new bill that the New Democracy Government brings to Parliament in relation to the previous one in relation to that of SYRIZA? It differs, ladies and gentlemen, on two very important points. First, it abolishes the provision of even minimum symbolic remuneration for copyright holders, with the exception of university writings. Secondly, it rejects any idea of control over the risk of the illicit trafficking of copying of spiritual works, that is, piracy. In both cases, with regard to the minimum, even symbolic, compensation to authors, but also with regard to the control of intellectual piracy, the State should assume certain responsibilities so that reproduction, distribution, presentation, disposal of intellectual works in accessible format, to the benefit of all our impressive fellow citizens, are made a reality, but there are no adverse effects. These state responsibilities the Ministry's leadership calls them unnecessary bureaucratic procedures with no meaning, which will work to the detriment of our impressive fellow citizens. Unnecessary bureaucratic procedures! Indeed. Does this include the Marrakesh Treaty? Oh, no. The Treaty recognises - and quite rightly so - that the non-access of people with disabilities, blind, blunt or other problems of reading in cultural goods is an exclusion that has an impact on the quality of their lives. The exclusion of our imaginary fellow citizens from music, literary, scientific, informative forms is an exclusion that prevents their autonomy, their professional integration, their participation in the cultural, social, political, economic life of the country. Such a blockade, we believe, affects equal inclusion, prevents their full integration and is an injustice in which the House cannot remain vague. Indeed, on this point, the defence of and the full extension of the right of access to intellectual property by imaginative fellow citizens was, in principle, unanimous by all the speakers at the meetings of the Committee on Culture. I am sure that the same consensus will take place today in plenary. That is why we, as SYRIZA, voted and voted positively at the beginning of the bill. For us, ladies and gentlemen, on the left, it is fundamental to have access to cultural goods for people with hearing problems, for people with vision problems, and for all citizens who are in poor economic and educational groups. On the left, access to culture is a fundamental value that must be achieved, not in terms of passive consumption but in terms of active participation, and it must concern the whole of society, because we recognise that culture and spiritual culture make people richer, more rich than any other currency. Food and water, we think, allow you to survive. Art allows you to live. In this sense, any measure which promotes the access of fellow citizens to spiritual works is, from the outset, a positive one. The possibility of defending both sides of industry and the access of printed citizens and copyright wisely appeared also in the debate with the institutions, at the corresponding meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, although only one of the authors as SYRIZA had been unjustifiedly invited there under the responsibility of the Government. The debate in the committee has shown that, although an unjustified separation between university writings and other printed intellectual works is created, the beneficiaries could waive their reasonable, even symbolic, remuneration for their spiritual works if at least a procedural check was ensured, which would ensure that the competent bodies carrying out the creation of copies for the benefit of the printers actually take appropriate measures to prevent the unauthorised reproduction, distribution, presentation or disposal of copies of their works to other readers who are not printable. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, such supervision and control are not provided for in this bill alone, it is foreseen that the competent bodies, which make copies for the benefit of the printed critics, should take appropriate measures to prevent unauthorised reproduction, but without specialising these measures. Thus it is up to each body to choose the measures it considers appropriate. However, measures could be foreseen by the legislator if the political will were there. These measures could relate to the certification of beneficiaries, the safe allocation of codes, the use of watermarks and other technological measures to prevent illegal copying. The beneficiaries proposed, as an appropriate institutional public body that could monitor the adoption of the appropriate measures, specifications and procedures, either the Department of Information and Communication, the Voice and Accessibility laboratory of the NRP, or the National Library, which is compatible with the legislation governing it in respect of its responsibilities. On this issue, the Minister tried to answer. It therefore mentioned to us in its report to the committee that it would be sufficient as regards the obligations of the bodies which would create copies in a proper format to clarify in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, which states that the competent bodies can take into account the standards and guidelines drawn up by the National Library of Greece in accordance with Article 1(4) (k) of Law 3149/2003 and claimed, in fact, that this reference to the explanatory memorandum is of regulatory importance. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know and know and because it is good to say things by their name and not to say them as it is of interest to us, we have to say that this wording, since it is in the explanatory memorandum and not in the law, has no legal value. The recitals do not have any value in the courts. That is why we call on the Minister, even now, since he feels it is in her intentions, to include the words in the explanatory statement in the law in the correct wording, not that the bodies can take into account, but that the bodies are obliged to take into account the standards and guidelines drawn up by the National Library of Greece. Let the Minister now do so, we invite her to legislate even now, showing that she listens to both the creators and realizes their reasonable concern for the "Lernaia Hydra" of piracy that arouses the spiritual creation and the spiritual life of this country. The Marrakesh Treaty and, of course, European Directive 1564/2017 does not prevent the national legislator from providing for measures to defend intellectual works. This option is of the Ministry and the Ministry's political will will be recorded. From the same debate with the institutions, despite the one-sided call, another request has been made for the creation of a national printing plant for the production of works for printed citizens and it has also been clarified that such a national printing works do not need to be imagined as a building, which will produce works in an appropriate format. It is possible with modern technology university departments and the National Library to interconnect, to become a single set on a central basis, such as "ERMOFILOS" or the National Library, to certify other sections, the FORTH of Crete, in Yannina, in Thessaloniki, everywhere, so that the National Printing Office is a single set, to enter a central base and to have control, to have water charts, to have the IPs of user computers, to have everything necessary. We have listened carefully to the Minister then not be negative to the idea as well as to the absorption of European programmes for its implementation. Such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, would find us fully in agreement and serve in the best possible way and the rights of access for fellow citizens with disabilities and the rights of the rightholders of intellectual works. So we are going to call on this step by the Ministry's leadership to move in this direction. And I commit that as SYRIZA we will monitor, monitor and, if necessary, press in that direction. Then, of course, what I have said before, I repeat that we are voting at the outset on the draft bill and we are saying 'the presents' in Articles 4, 7, 8 and 10, which grant the rights of works to operators without any obligation, with the exception of university writings, on condition that it is possible to give even a symbolic reward to the beneficiaries of the spiritual works, as provided for in the draft law submitted by SYRIZA, and on the one hand, and, on the other, to make it quite clear that such compensation should in no way be - and, on the other hand, to blame the beneficiaries or the players who reproduce the works in an appropriate format, but on the other hand, the state of which is double: it is the exercise of social policy to the advantage of vulnerable and weaker social groups and, on the other hand, the payment of intellectual creators. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Assurance - and possibly dangerous - exists in Article 3, as the representatives of the beneficiaries pointed out. As a competent body capable of making reproductions in an appropriate format, not only is the public body providing the same services to beneficiaries as one of its main activities, as an institutional obligation, but also the non-profit organisation providing the same services to beneficiaries as one of its main activities. As you can see, by this provision, each individual will be able to set up a non-profit urban company, provide for the purpose of training benefits and then ask the beneficiaries to deliver to him digitally their assets, i.e. their books in digital form, without any safeguards at all. The proposal of the representatives of the beneficiaries to add to Article 3 the proposal: 'The above bodies will be designated by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Education and Culture', we believe that it is moving in the right direction and we call on the Minister to adopt it as a minimum safety net. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. In Article 6, on the contrary, we will vote negatively, for the reasons I mentioned a moment ago, because it does not guarantee spiritual works from spiritual piracy. And to stress that the 2007 ministerial decision, which will be repealed after the present vote, laid down such protection measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with this, Mr President, the Minister told the committees that the culture of a country is demonstrated in the way it treats people with disabilities. We will fully agree on this, but it also appears from the way it treats spiritual people and their works, but also the beneficiaries, to all those people who are entitled to related rights, to invisible workers, invisible workers of the spirit and of the arts. SYRIZA, having as his worthy project defending rights and reducing social inequalities, is of course in agreement with every measure that strengthens the full and equitable integration of citizens into the country's cultural, economic, social and political life. The enjoyment of access to spiritual works touches our soul and delights our life. It is the state's obligation, therefore, to strengthen this access, while respecting the rights of the beneficiaries, who have spent time, working hours, have been talented in creating their works. In the delicate balance between these two absolutely compatible rights, this bill unfortunately fails to do so, and in this case also shows the limits of policy, the limits of practice and the limits of the concept of the current government. We believe that another opportunity for operational and fair legislature is now lost in Parliament, unfortunately. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u6	We continue with the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos for 15 minutes and please close the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to the great loss of our maid of the Central Municipalities. Greek letters and civilization are poorer without her. Her work is huge, I'd say, for the next generations. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary we are discussing the incorporation of Directive 1564/2017 into the Greek legal order. The Directive corresponds to the provisions of the Marrakesh Treaty of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. I would even say that it is coming too late and this is under the responsibility of the previous government. However, this is a very important European directive, which aims to facilitate our fellow citizens, such as the blind, the blunt, and more generally people with a problem of seeing and reading literature, having greater access to protected works of intellectual property and related rights. It should be stressed here, Minister, that this provision of equal access, equal opportunities for education, education, entertainment, social and professional integration is a primary obligation of the state and must therefore be taken up. And that, I believe, is what we all recognize. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, Article 28a of Law No 2121/1993, which has until now regulated the reproduction of works for the benefit of blind and deaf and is replaced by a detailed framework for the access of imprinted persons and persons with other disabilities, of course, to protected works. In other words, entities that have legal access to protected projects are allowed to produce copies of these documents in accessible formats or to have them available on a non-profit basis in order to be used by persons who have problems reading the forms. Books, magazines, receipts and illustrations accompanying the literature, as well as non-printed works, such as digital and audio works, are converted into an accessible form, using appropriate means each time. Thus, for example, Braille, large printing documents, customized electronic books, audio books and radio transmissions can be used. As regards the institutions, now, who undertake the conversion of projects, the bill here, Minister, provides that they are organisations, associations, associations, bodies, public bodies or other recognised bodies providing training for access to beneficiaries and on a non-profit basis. Madam Minister, I also mentioned to you in committee that there is one issue here. What's that? That it is not specified who is responsible for the award of the writings of the undergraduate, postgraduate and candidate doctorates who are visually impaired. Because this is where the question arises whether the grant will be made by the LAG's lending libraries, and even if they are obliged to maintain the writings in accessible form, especially for the blind. Also, Minister, the characteristics of the competent body are not described. I should also like to remind the Members who were in committee at the hearing of the bodies that they are going to be asked, who will be responsible for the bill - and here I would like, Minister, your particular attention - that is to say, how the creators and publishers will know that they will grant their works to certified bodies so that they can be assured that there will be no unfair movement of them. You told the committee, Minister, that no specific authorization is provided for in the directive. So it doesn't make any sense to talk about authorised bodies. It goes without saying that the primary objective of all of us must be to limit bureaucracy and, of course, piracy - not piracy, but to avoid any piracy - so that no further problems can arise for our people with disabilities, but also for publishers. I believe that you will have to look at it again in detail and in detail, so that the capacity of the body calling for these projects can be clearly demonstrated, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that this body is working for the benefit of those who are the victims. It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, for the project to be converted into one of the beneficiaries themselves or to those who act and operate on their behalf - and I now go through the conditions to be met - so that the project can be completely legal. The draft law, ladies and gentlemen, provides for the possibility of conversion without the author's permission or remuneration, and this is under specific conditions. Because the primary condition is that the operator's access to the project is of course consistent with the law, based on the law of intellectual property and related rights, and that there is respect for the integrity of the project when it is converted. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 6 of the bill, which we, too, have raised our concerns, each body must take all steps to prevent the further unlawful production of projects, to make public the way in which it prevents the piracy of the projects, and to maintain a list of the works of which it has copies. And all that, of course, in accessible form for everyone. Accordingly, issuers are obliged to provide digital works to the entities. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, there is this issue. Perhaps, Minister, it should be foreseen that there should be a request from the beneficiaries - and I have told you in committee too, I have not received an answer today - so that if publishers are refused to go to justice and this is for the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. However, it should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that this procedure is both costly and time-consuming and that there should also be an administrative procedure for solving these problems. I come to Article 7 on compensation for the beneficiaries. According to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, the compensation scheme for projects transformed under this Directive which are used in primary, secondary and tertiary education is the same as that of beneficiaries for all other educational projects. But here, Minister, what is the framework for foreign languages' writings and how the provision will apply in the case of blind students or doctoral candidates, who borrow books from the LEI's lending libraries, as I mentioned earlier? In such a case will a single payment be made, or whenever the book is awarded to a blind or candidate doctor? And that's a question. The question of the payment of a fair remuneration for authors, as has been established in other countries, has also been raised. It is certain, Minister, that the beneficiaries or bodies operating on behalf of the beneficiaries should not be charged themselves, and even today they are giving a great deal of help to people with disabilities, of course taking over the great costs. Instead, it is the state that must ensure that the spiritual creator’s work is recognised, guaranteed and defended by piracy piracy. Ladies and gentlemen, it should also be noted that the framework laid down by the bill also applies to projects consisting of computer programs, as well as to databases. Finally, let me turn to the very important article 8 addressed to the blind and have arrangements for deaf and deaf. In particular, it provides for the benefit of the deaf and even without authorisation - and this should be important - the beneficiary's remuneration, reproduction and disposal where such use is not of a commercial character. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating is designed to facilitate access for our blind fellow citizens and, in particular, for people with problems of reading literature in published projects. It is a self-evident right for all citizens and it is our duty to set up the framework where access will be guaranteed, quickly and without problems, as the authorities of a modern, civilised state that takes priority over man. At the same time, however, the intellectual property of authors should be guaranteed and protected and the illegal reproduction and disposal of works prevented. We therefore call on you, Minister, to see our proposals so that the bill can actually work for the benefit of the citizens and solve problems for people who currently have a disability problem. In conclusion, Minister, from the Change Movement you have our agreement by voting 'yes' in the first place. We shall listen to you and in my dentistry I shall be placed on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and four teachers attendants from the 12th Municipal School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the floor for 15 minutes to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u9	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u10	And more, if necessary, we'll give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u11	I'm going to need less and I'm going to need less because I'm being honest, I'm looking at this issue with a little shame. Both in the rapporteur's report and everywhere, there is equal access to other citizens without harming the copyright of authors, people who have first-sighted problems, blinds with problems of sight and deafness, because we forget them the deaf ones at a time. And it's deeply hypocritical. Think that at the moment we're talking about this, up there there's a primary school, and if there's a child with deafness problems, right now there's no one to translate us into sign language, right now that we're talking to the dorm, the temple of democracy, and that's what happened in all the bills, when we're talking about people who have problems. I'm embarrassed. I think I'm talking to an intransigent space in a foreign language. Secondly, can anyone convince us today in this place, I am not talking about Europe or about the European directive, how we have dealt with blind people and people with visual problems so far? These problems are not just ambly, I would agree with my previous colleague. Are they being hanged in their success by the rights of authors? Is that the problem we have to solve? I'm going to be awkward! Have we solved everything else? Do they have work to do? Do they have a way to move? Do they have a secured date? They're going to school with the right person next door? What the hell have we done, and we've come to be interested in losing money spiritually from the creators? Are we in the country of miracles or in the country of injuries? I consider this 'Alice' of these bills to be permanent in the country of the injuries, but it is not miracles. Which country are we in and in what reality? We're in the real world of artificial intelligence. We're sitting here talking about some things. We proposed before memorable National Printing Office, a state printing office, in the widest sense of the term, because it is not only printing works, where they are reproduced audio and sound materials for those who need to, but also the translation of written texts into headphones and backwards, works which, from an oral point of view, can be converted by means of communications and mail, and those and the others, and access to oral speech for the blind, automatically. There are algorithms. There are materials. The importance is the political approach you're going with. I hear about format. The profit format is a profit format. And when the form of profit goes in, this story ends as a charity, ends as a provision, ends and as a social ends equality, ends. It's over. There cannot be a concept of equality under the market, without taking into account the form of profit. What's the matter here? Do they escape to any agencies or to others like NGOs some things and do not get paid to the intermediates, to the large publishing houses, to the thousand - two. It has nothing to do with creation. That's how the Internet liberation started to exchange music with your friends, Napster, they said it then, for some older people if they remember, and then the pay was definitely in. That's how you started accessing the major university libraries, and now you're getting on a card and a payroll. That's how it's done. There comes his trap for free, slowly and then the payment begins. Fear is not whether the creators are paid. The Communist Party is in favour of being paid, not just rights but also of being able to live from their art. But that's not the idea of approaching it from here, because all of a sudden, huge rights will be lost for the fifty, twenty, thirty, a hundred blind people who go to university. We're talking about Greek sizes. Two thousand, three thousand, five thousand. That's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about general stuff. It does not even make sense to discuss this at the level of copyright. He should have discussed it in the creation of those bodies and those under the supervision of the state of all technology benefits to the people who have been deprived, other generations and others on the street. It is not the same approach to someone who is born blind to someone who has been blinded on the street or needs themselves. It's not the transfer of a book to Braille, no matter who's using it. All of this now has a specialty in everything. I would like to explain a little that the whole approach is wrong and that is why our vote - I have said from the outset - will be 'white' at the outset, i.e. 'a present' and 'present' and in the articles. It's not worth it to go into detail and sit down and study one thing that's wrong with arrest and implementation. Not this directive, but the notion of a man who does not see in modern society, a man who does not listen to modern society, a man who does not walk in modern society. What are you talking about? It's a purely class approach. A man who has, he can perform fifteen operations extremely expensive, put an electronic leg and run, and the other person who doesn't have, he'll put a beetle and walk with the beetle. The guy who has, he's going to have the special wheelchair that goes up and gets him and takes him all over and four from next door to carry him, and the one who doesn't have a job and he doesn't get a job and play with the disability rates? Invalidity rates, recruitment rates, percentages and benefits, something 150, 200, 300, 400, 500 euros, and go ahead. The 300 and 400 for a man who is lame or for a man who is blind or who has scary problems is the same as my 500 and yours, which is the money for three packs of cigarettes a day? What approach are we going to? Have you heard the bots? Suddenly, there are bots entering the phone center of a bank - artificial intelligence - and it catches what moment the banker is getting pissed off. I was reading it the other day. From the President of the Institute for Language Processing, which has been working since 1991, he has an annex to Xanthi, and the previous law we are now changing it is from 1993, before that. EC internal market, economic and monetary union, economic These bots can turn everything. It's a development of artificial intelligence. He may, for example, recognize degree of dyslexia, if anyone enters or writes, and adapts to the degree of dyslexia. At the same time as adjusting to the degree of dyslexia do you know where the bots are used? To make censorship on the Internet words they don't like. It has two sides of the coin, one of capitalist and one of the non-capitalist sides. Depends on which side you're going to take it. It's visible. The same thing can be used to do good and the same thing can be used to do harm. Bad in the sense that it will be the property and authority of the media holder. Who makes the bots? The one who builds the means of producing this new technology, he's gonna have it. So we don't need an agency? Don't you remember the resilience a while ago when we said we had stopped the National Printing Office, we no longer print and print the euro out, and if some people want to print or if we decided tomorrow morning to print, they couldn't get machines in the whole world and there are companies in the world that print the currencies of the States and some people spray them on the other side to clean them up? And we're talking here about conservation and control? This conception of the urban state, not only nationality, will it verify whether the poems of the unmistakable Municipalities and their rights have been legally paid to read or translate into something and in a format which is understandable by someone who does not have the power to temporarily have no disability, temporarily all of us? We are all temporarily involved in this and may at any time, in one second, be on the other side of the bank immediately, and be someone else here and speak to us without us. Because 'without us' is certain and let us have adopted laws and let us move on with them. I was telling the committee the other day - and it is a comic - that we are living in a place where people are going and learning the Braille language in order to qualify for a premium with molecules in recruitment. What does that have to do with Braille? Watch man's motive. He goes and learns Braille as a skill. It's a useful thing. Where will this man be used? Which body? And he does it to go to public office. The public who will have a man who knows Braille as a skill and have raised his molecules what will make him? What's he gonna do with that skill? That is why we are talking about a central real structure, with control first of all by the institutions of the people who are bearing the problem on them, in their faces. They were the ones who said underneath: "Jehovah." They were parents who do not have and must print the books of the children and adapt them and pay someone who knows something more, to do it with great elements, so that the child may not differ from the other children in times of modern times in the 21st century. They are the same ones who proposed a national printing works to meet the needs everywhere. There's no books for Braille everywhere, not even for every class or university. There aren't any. It can't be done without the parent's paying, it doesn't have, in his pocket, when it comes to children, juveniles. And then which one of the blind ones has found a job in the Greek state, in Greek society, in the Greek state? What business? It's like a burden they see as an obligation. She needs a subsidisation. So, where does the perception that we have jumped and arrived, because of Marrakesh, in the adoption of a directive, which is actually implemented in a hole in the realm? Today I read something, Minister, which concerns you - I fell over it - that you have changed the percentage of those who can go as disabled to visit archaeological sites and after a disability rate they must have an assistant with them, without that percentage having no help with them and will be free of charge for so many people and will not be free of charge for the assistant if the disability is not so much. Didn't you get tired of this equation? Didn't it tire you to make a European equation at all times - as I see it - standards? And my "female as if" is from the bottom of my heart, I honestly tell you. You have nothing but to see the implementation of bicycles in a number of countries that are flatt and straight and calm and to see the bicycle roads that have been built here, so I am supposed to have European funds without even 1/10 of European standards. So, does anyone think that in the capital of Luxembourg you're going on a bike in the city, downtown the same way you're going to some bike streets that have been built in the green cave with the empty streets? In the same way, we treat disabled people as well. What Lausan what Kosan! Bicycle road. European directive doll. So there has been a European directive, save the rights of the blind! You lose your light if you hear that, you lose your hearing. It's an incredible hypocrisy! Like old kingdoms come to satisfy the polar they slaughtered. As long as this thing is approached like this, there is no way it will end. Some people will get rich. We should be a little serious now. We live in a country we don't know, we don't know, but it's fun. The Court of Human Rights has twenty-five or thirty judges, who were former members and non-governmental world-class organisations and are judging cases brought by the NGOs themselves who financed them. As long as there may be a concept of non-profit in this regard about rights, there has been nothing non-profit-making before. I'll tell you something bitter. If you pass through the highway where the Blind House is, I want you to see what it's like outside. Take a walk, get down to Kallithea and come and see what the House is like. I think the building is dead. There is no, if you see what it is, honestly! Why can't blind men see it like this? Mercy! With the wish that the bot will not catch you, on the assumption that in Greece there is not even a production of books to come to talk about how to save copyright, because there will be so much! Apparently someone's targeting now. Some people want to build these companies that are essential to them to do that. I will be absolutely inconsistent, because I was drawn into the ocean of these things. I said I'll talk less, and I've spent half a minute and a half. I have no reason to answer for a second. I do not believe that any change can improve that. Because in a country that lives and grows with the perception of what it can offer, in order to make the most desirable and best marketable species even its need, so that it can become part of the market process that is the only one and nothing, in a country that once had three and four factories built by artificial members and today has no one and you have to pay for the construction, etc., since the disability needs an intermediate, contractor or poor pimp of all kinds and forms, either put the label on 'non-profit' or put the label on 'NGO' or whatever else, the exploitation of the disabled will become a noble weakness. And because we're gonna put her next to the authors' copyright, it doesn't mean that the lyric, better the poem, or better the Nobel. The least we can offer, so that no one thinks that we will leave the spiritual creators uncovered of the money they make and lose too much because something blind, and something dumb, and something deaf, and something of people who are in the mood to offer and become substantial, but also nothing to offer, to enjoy spiritual works only enjoying the loss possibly of the image or sound, only for this is why we vote "white" on the principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u12	I invite the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to these groups of fellow citizens who have a flaw that we are baptizing for, so that we do not have authority over how we have been dealing with them all these years. Imagine that Greece has made a law for the disabled in 1951. And do we have to come a directive of the European Union to open them up a light in knowledge as far as we can in the form of Louis Braille, who has seen it since the 17th century, to help them with this relief writing? Now listen to the oxymomile, the comedytragic. Let's go help our blind fellow people, and fortunately they don't see us, without knowing how many blind people there are in Greece! Others speak of fifty thousand others for fifty - five thousand. We don't know that. So we don't know how many books they have to go out in this form of Braille to open them up the light of knowledge. Do you understand that? They say the statistics say the blind ones will triple in the next few years on the planet. In 1991 it was 31 million. Now it's 36 million and 2050 will be 115 million. They are people who were not born blind only because there are many stages of blindness. Others see shapes, other colors, other visions, but to say that they see absolute darkness. I've got a lot of blind friends, I've been filming blindly. Before I came here he said: "We see the absolute nothing. The world starts and ends in our brains." We're talking about it? 5% of the blind in Greece today are working. In the phone centers legal advisers, blind men, have not been hired. Does it have to be taken in the public sector blindly since 2010 and we have been discussing it? I want to go to the articles a little bit, to go back to the blind spot, because it's a spot, the blind ones say it themselves. And I will refer you to two amazing articles to decodify and codify the problems of the blind. Do you remember the Lara case? This dog-guide died, but the bus driver took it down from the bus because it is our mentality. Do you realize why we are talking about a problem, ladies and gentlemen, when a university professor today forbids the blind person from recording a tradition at the university and tells him "go to someone else who sees"? Is that how we're gonna be with them? Is that how they'll enjoy equivalence and equivalency? Fortunately, they don't see us and see a world of theirs to decode. Let's go a little bit, please, to the articles that we keep as Greek Solution our reservations to our fellow people who have a problem. Will the deaf or not be included in Article 1? I don't get it. In Article 2, replacement of the title and Article 28a of Law 2121/1993. What do you mean by 'persons with other disabilities'? What kind of disabilities these will be, we don't know. Is it the deaf ones, too? Article 28a of Law 2121 ‘Reproduction for the benefit of blind and deaf persons. Reproduction is authorised for the benefit of blind and deaf persons for uses directly linked to the disability and are not of a commercial character to the extent required by that disability. The terms of application may be laid down by a decision of the Minister of Culture.’ This is where the deaf are included, and in Article 1, no? In Article 3, how will the deaf listen to the headphones, if they are ultimately included in the draft law in question? I can't understand it. Paragraph 1 of 28a of Law 2121 states: ‘A copy of an accessible format shall mean any copy of a work which gives the recipient access to the project in an alternative way or in an alternative form, allowing, inter alia, that person to have the same effective and comfortable access’. There are, therefore, great risks to the protection of copyright, since it increases the risks of the creation and trafficking of illegal copies, copy right and illegally. ‘Competent body’ means any body, association, association or other body authorised or recognised to provide benefits instruction, training, customised reading and access to information on a non-profit basis. A competent body shall also be considered as a public or non-profit body providing the same services.’ Who is this other body? Is he a foreign body? Coming from the Greek area? Should the competent bodies not be accountable to the rightful authors and publishers for the reproduction works? It's a question. Article 4 ‘Authorised without copyright’ states, ‘the project and without remuneration, that any operation necessary or person acting on its behalf may reproduce a copy of an accessible project format’. And what are the appropriate measures ultimately to prevent the illegal reproduction, distribution and disposal of these works? Is there gonna be a code? Will the benefitor or the person acting on his behalf know only? Will the person acting on behalf of the benefiting person have any authorisation or proxy? How will he act? In what sense is the legal access of the competent body? With the imperfections of this provision, the State thus leaves both publishers and authors unprotected and creates an environment that promotes piracy. In accordance with paragraph 3, ‘unlike the above fundamental arrangements referred to in paragraph 2, no agreement shall be permitted’. What for? You introduce forced law, thereby violating fundamental rights of constitutional law. In Article 5, what measures are appropriate to prevent the illicit reproduction, distribution and disposal of such works when the competent body is established in another Member State of the European Union? We don't make that clear. Who will be the competent bodies? What is the concept of an accessible format? Because it is paragraph 5 of the old law, which says that it is allowed without the author's permission and without payment to a competent body, to carry out the acts in case b on behalf of a beneficiary or other competent authority. So who are the competent bodies? And what about a competent body that isn't in Greece? Article 6. ‘If the competent body established in Greece performs the acts’, you say, 2 and 5 ‘sets and observes its own practices to ensure, distribute, presents, makes available copies of works in accessible format’. Who are the other competent bodies and what are the appropriate measures? He's talking inside about out-of-net channels. Who are the out-of-net channels? It does not clarify that. And it continues: ‘on request provided in a accessible form to a benefiting competent body or beneficiary. Publishers are obliged to provide the competent entities in a digital format with the project records, provided that they comply with them in a digital format. That's as good as it is. In accordance with Article 946 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the event of non-compliance with this obligation, a list of copies of works in accessible format shall be kept in the National Library with the type of formats to which the works have been reproduced. While the project provides for certain obligations for the benefiting entities, it does not provide for the possibility for right-wing authors and publishers to request and receive relevant information at regular intervals in terms of the number and titles of the books made available to them in a readable form. Therefore, there is a great risk of arbitrariness on the part of publishers and authors. In addition, the draft law provides for the obligation for issuers to provide a copy of their books in a digital format, without providing that, in order to carry out such provision, there should be a request by competent bodies to that effect by benefiting competitor, otherwise there is no guarantee or guarantee that they will, in fact, be made available to printers and that risks of arbitrary reproduction and unlawful disposal are posed. In Article 7, the terms and details of compensation for beneficiaries must be laid down, Minister, by decision of the Minister of Culture. It can't be general and vague. Who is the competent body to carry out the operations referred to in paragraph 5? Article 5(3), Directive amended by Article 8 of 2017. The draft law extends the scope of the exception to deaf people, which, on the one hand, is not provided for in the directive but, above all, makes no sense since deaf people have no problem of sight. These are on the articles. Let's actually go. Philologist blind professor of Boston, Ms. Georgakakou. There's the stigma of the blind. Imagine how embarrassing we are when today we want the vote of a blind fellow citizen we do not give him the opportunity to be able to vote on his own! He will go in the presence of a legal representative and not even a relative of the person. In fact, I remember that he had become a dormant when in municipal elections a blind man had voted for a small municipal combination and his vote was never found. That's where to start. Isn't it compulsory for the mobility and guidance course for the white spades and we're talking about? Do you know that blind people don't have an ID, there's no record of blind ones - what I said earlier - too only about public transport, to know how an EKA rescuer, a firefighter how to save this man who doesn't have eyesight? Do you understand? Today many of our fellow humans and our compatriots have been blinded by negligent doctors. In 1984, multiple accidents had occurred from a high dose of oxygen on the newborns, including Janna Gertsu, who has strangled in nine spots the problems of the blind. Is it possible today that there is no psychologist near a blind child? The guardian, like Lara - who costs up to EUR 25,000 the training of a driver guard and wants EUR 80 a day - to be the privilege of a few and not be guaranteed as a service, rather than be legally regulated? What's the point? There are also the "smart" systems within the smartphones that some people use without vision, such as the screen touch, which gives them information. If possible, however, today we say that we are close to the blind without having recorded them and while eight out of ten blind children born do not have access to education! And you know why? As I am told by friends blindly, like my friend George Dimitriopoulos, who have had years of showing together - who have never been hired as legal advisers at the Thessaloniki Blind School - because teachers in the province and teachers do not accept these children because they cannot keep up with the other children. And they're forced to come to Athens. How many families can they do that? Too little. So the kids stay out. Also, given that there is no sign of a blind spot in their universities, are there today in Greece? If that's possible! These people are doomed, with this flaw, which we have to baptize, to have an alibi, not to have our lovers, toward a society that has them on the sidelines. However, there are blind lawyers, musicians, singers, who have also perpetrated Greece and abroad. Today we cannot talk about people who will be next to them even in the form of Braille, without having given them some incentive. What is the slogan of the blind? They're not begging, they're demanding to enjoy equality. So when you don't motivate them to be productive, to have the vibrant and joy of creation, they will be on the margin, ladies and gentlemen, like every human being. And when they acquire autonomy, that money rewards the state. It is much more than what is being given, if these people do not give them this advantage, to be able to access education, knowledge. So we baptize their defects, so that we can have an alibi and have them under privileged regime, which the blind themselves do not want. Because there's immunity to the unions. They have denounced it themselves. So how can we talk when the guidance lesson for the white club is not mandatory, which they do not know how to use, because there is no lesson, it is not compulsory. The instructor's profession is also a closed profession. Significant problems of the blind could have been solved. So we are talking about a directive of the European Union that has to come to give them this opportunity to read books in the form of Braille? If possible, after so many years, we haven't done anything, give them equal opportunities? We've got them on the sidelines. 95% are unemployed. Blinds have been engaged in the public sector since 2010, which, apart from the telephone centres, had to - and there was an obligation - also to take them as legal advisers. So we're talking about people living in their own world, they don't have an open horizon. What's the blind man saying? "The whole world ends in my brain, but give me the opportunity to be side by side, to have an opinion, to have reason, to feel the joy of creating with my mind, knowledge, thought and speech." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u14	Congressman Theophilos Xanthiopoulos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 27 February to 3 March 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u15	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. I call on the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakova from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. This Legislation concerns the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the European Union Directive No 2017/1564. The provisions of this Directive correspond to the provisions of the World Intellectual Property Organisation Treaty - the Marrakesh Treaty - to facilitate access for blind, blunt or other persons with other problems of reading literature in published works. In practice, this is indeed a more integrated single regulation - unfortunately not complete - which is to some extent covering the shortcomings of the legislative and regulatory framework, as was the case until now. We are talking, in other words, of Article 28a of Law 2121/1993, as added by Law 3057/2002 and the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Culture 98546/2007, adopted by the legislative authority of this article. Apart from this directive, it is also relevant to: Firstly, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and in particular on the crucial issue here, Article 30. The Convention, in fact, has, in the Greek legislative framework, the increased force of Article 28 of the Constitution, since it has already been ratified by Law 4074/2012. Secondly, the decision of the Council of the European Union 2014/221 on the conclusion by the Treaty of Marrakesh. Third, Regulation 2017/1563 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on the cross-border exchange between the Union and third countries, the exchange of copies of accessible forms of works and other matters protected by intellectual property rights and related rights for the benefit of those individuals. The bill consists of the overall reform of Article 28A of Law 2121/1993, and it also repeals the Ministerial Decision we referred to. It is worth noting that the draft law incorporating this directive had been put into consultation in February 2019, but without completing its vote in Parliament. It should actually have been integrated since October 2018, so once again we have been delayed. The framework of the Marrakesh Treaty, as well as of this directive, is, in principle, in the right direction, helping to overcome obstacles to the detriment of people with disabilities, in terms of access to cultural material. The Marrakesh Treaty laid down a set of international rules which ensure the establishment of restrictions and/or exceptions to intellectual property rules for the benefit of blind, blunt and other people with problems of reading literature. It shall also enable the cross-border exchange of copies of published works produced in accessible format. People who are blind, have visual problems or have other problems preventing them from reading printed material continue to find many obstacles to access to books and other publications. It's not just about blind or blunt. Forms of disabled persons are also persons with readable or perceptive disabilities. Reading problems have been experienced by the dyslexics as well as by people with physical disabilities who prevent them from dealing with the book and so on... It is definitely and internationally recognised that the number of works and other protected materials in accessible formats such as Braille, Recording or Printing has been increased. A similar arrangement is also provided for the benefit of deaf people, although this is a category that is not included in this directive. This addition is certainly positive because there is a need to meet the corresponding needs. After all, the deaf are among the beneficiaries of the framework, which has so far been the case in our country. Based on the current legislative logic, beneficiaries and organisations will be able to create copies of projects in accessible formats, but also to distribute them to the European Union and to third countries, which are parties to the Treaty. There is no doubt that the state has an obligation to ensure access to the printed disgusting but also deaf in general spiritual production. On an ideal level, we would talk about universal and direct accessibility. Unfortunately, the real facts are frustrating. I mention characteristics that at global level the number of accessible books does not exceed 5% of those published and accessible websites 20%. We do not, of course, need to say that the corresponding figures in Greece are even smaller. The situation our fellow citizens face is really dramatic. The fight they are taking is huge and the trial they are subjected to does not honor either of us. It is shameful for all of us that the obstacles, which they face, are often unsurpassed. Beyond the constitutional requirement, the response to this issue is also a political and social issue. This obligation of the state also corresponds to the individual right to education and education, which is part of the general right to participate in social and economic life. It is of particular importance that we are dealing with a question of principle, because, if we really define the service of these specific needs as a priority, it will also be our place in the specific issues that arise in the formulation and implementation of the relevant legislative and regulatory framework. I think that there is an in principle agreement on all sides on the feasibility of this legislation, namely the transposition of European Directive 2017/1564. This is firstly a positive step. But many questions are born as to whether this legislation is complete and whether it is complete. I have already said that it is obviously a common goal for us to make it possible for the printers and deaf people - either through their bodies or individually - to produce copies of accessible formats, such as Braille writing or recorded books, without the author's or other beneficiaries' prior permission. A key issue, therefore, which is born, is to what extent it is legitimate to be bent, to retreat intellectual property rights and related rights towards the required service of the needs of these categories of individuals. Ultimately, the dual need to protect two different rights in a constitutional manner, on the one hand the right to intellectual property and, on the other hand, the right of small and medium-sized enterprises to access their intellectual production, to their works of speech, to reading and, on the other, to know-how should be weighted in the legislative field. The directive itself gives a legislative direction, as it presupposes that if the damage to a right holder is minimal, the obligation to pay compensation should not be incurred. On the basis of this provision, the Ministry recommends this draft law, claiming that the number of printed dismissals in Greece and the respective uses in an accessible format are not such as to justify the provision of a remuneration or compensation scheme for publishers and authors. Article 4 provides that accessible formats may only be produced from projects in which operators or printers have legal access, for market reasons. Article 6 then provides - I would say in general terms - for the competent bodies to take appropriate measures to prevent unauthorised reproduction and disposal of accessible format works. We have a reservation here, Minister. We believe that we may have to deal with the possibility of more specific petitions and, if not, define - the measures to deal with piracy. We raise this question because we are not convinced, Minister, that it is enough to resort to the mere reference to the explanatory statement on the standards and guidelines of the National Library of Greece, which, in fact, is of regulatory importance. Would it not be more appropriate and safer to incorporate these elements into the text of the law? And an additional remark in Article 6, point (a) and in the case of dd). The competent body is required to inform and publish information on how to comply with the previous obligations. It has also been put to the committee - and we believe it right - that the phrase 'without prejudice to the protection of the personal data of the beneficiaries' should be added. We are talking about good and fair practical implementation. If the issuer asks the institution to identify the beneficiaries to the extent necessary, then we will have an obvious violation of the sensitive data of the parties concerned. Similarly, in Article 6, paragraph 7 provides for the obligation for issuers to provide the competent bodies with digital works, provided that they keep them in a digital format. This latter condition can, unfortunately, be used in many cases of projects. It would therefore be more appropriate to formulate that issuers are obliged to provide an accessible format of projects. Finally, for the same Article 6, in the next paragraph, in the case of issuers refusing to provide project records, the legal protection granted to the competent bodies and beneficiaries under Article 946 of the Code of Civil Procedure is not, in our view, appropriate. It's also time-consuming and costly. Another way should be provided by means of an extrajudicial mechanism or before an administrative body such as the Committee of the Intellectual Property Organisation, or at least the inclusion of these differences in the more rapid procedure for interim measures. Article 7 provides for a compensation scheme specifically for the training courses of all levels of education, namely the system applicable to common users, i.e. non-standards. We consider that the cost of compensation will not in any way be borne by the beneficiaries, but by the public. With regard to other intellectual works, in addition to the educational writings, the Ministry has invoked difficulties in drawing up and adopting a joint Ministerial Decision setting out how to calculate the use of the printables and the corresponding compensation mechanism for publishers, which is projected to work at the end of the day to the detriment of the rights of the beneficiaries. And at this point, Minister, we are not totally convinced. We note, moreover, a clear contrast. Article 8, specifically referred to deaf people, provides for the adoption of a common ministerial decision to further specify the conditions of use. Isn't there a problem there? But this is almost the same subject of regulation. We note, however, that it appears as an additional basis for the legislative will and the assessment that the loss of issuers would be non-essential and that is why they are not subject to compensation. Of course, it is important for this matter and that the use in favour of the imprinted and generally benefiting is not of a speculative nature. It is sufficient, of course, to ensure the exclusion of speculative activity in this field. It is important, too, that what is happening in other countries is also important. Most of these do not provide for compensation in favour of beneficiaries, such as, for example, France, Belgium, Poland, the United Kingdom and Ireland. In Germany and Austria compensation is foreseen, but on the basis of the information available to us, it has not been effectively implemented. Finally, in two countries, Denmark and Finland, compensation is provided for audiovisual books only. Outside Europe, we mention, for example, the United States and Japan, which are large countries, with a huge volume of accessible material, where compensation is also not provided for. To conclude, we must say on this and beyond this legislation, that we are listening very carefully and joining the proposal to set up a public body - let us say it is a special national printing works - which will undertake the work of publishing spiritual works in formats accessible to the categories of people for whom we are discussing. This is a proposal brought to the Commission by the Coordinating Committee for Disabled Struggles. We also call on the Government to work directly and to promote the establishment of such an infrastructure. There are public and academic bodies already active in this field and have gained valuable experience and know-how. In addition, there is the relevant international experience. Greece, unfortunately - and I am sorry to say this - is dramatically lacking both as a state and as a society in relation to respect for the rights of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no room for further delays, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not get rid of the legislative work integrating European directives. Let us respond to the real needs of Greek society. I think this is an open, really, challenge for all of us. We, Minister, say 'yes', say 'yes' in two articles, six and seven, and the rest are positive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u17	I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mrs Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would ask you to accept two legislative improvements to this draft law. The first paragraph of Article 6 of the draft law, to which the following subparagraph is added: ‘The disputes referred to in this paragraph shall be dealt with in the procedure for interim measures by the locally competent single court’. The second legal indent is as follows: ‘In case (a) of internal paragraph 6 of Article 6 of the draft law and after (a), (b), (g) and (d) of the draft law, a subparagraph shall be added as follows: ‘It shall be stated that the competent bodies comply with the above requirements if they comply with the standards and guidelines drawn up by the National Library of Greece as appropriate in paragraph 4 of Article 1 of Law No 3149/2003 (A'141)’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to say more than anything else than the substance of this bill, but since the SYRIZA rapporteur has raised specific matters, I have to answer it. You referred to the appointments of administrations and parties. I wonder whether the inclusion of pre-requests, university professors, anti-professionals on the boards of supervised bodies is interpreted as party administrations. However, any changes in the administrations of supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture and Sport took place pursuant to provisions adopted by SYRIZA, in particular to Law No.4327/2015, paragraph 32, expressly states: ‘In a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport, the term of office of members of collective and unilateral bodies of legal persons governed by public law, private-law legal persons and other bodies supervised by the Ministry of Culture’. The law was published on May 14, 2015, during the period when the country was in danger of being put out of the euro, the Ministry of Culture at the time - on SYRIZA - went through provisions to stop and appoint administrations at once. Of course, we all remember that the corresponding provision was passed to remove Mr Sotiris Hatzakis and Mr Yiannis Vouros from the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece. The press of the time has written a lot about it. You referred to the change of the Central Archaeological Council as if it did not change the Central Archaeological Council in 2015 immediately after the elections in which SYRIZA prevailed. You mentioned that we changed the CAS to allegedly go through the study of "Attica Metro", which refers to the findings at the "Venizelos" station. However, you forgot to mention that the 2017 CSR gave an opinion on a non-existent study with unsigned designs and unambiguous designs. Finally, you referred to the Staff Solidarity Fund, which is what you call a'same fund'. But then you had the opportunity to abolish it. You didn't. We've put it into liquidation. Besides, I do not understand why you are so concerned about this fund when you - and you did well - sent all the information you had in justice. We trust justice. The files have taken their way, so you have no reason and we have no reason to worry that justice will not do its job properly. To go now to the draft law itself. The object of this bill is to incorporate into our national law Directive 2017/1564 on permitted uses of speech works for the benefit of the printed dismissals. The Directive sets the necessary regulatory framework for this legislative initiative as it commits, as known, the internal legislature. However, by taking advantage of the scope for adaptation provided by Union law, we have sought to achieve in the best way the beneficial effect of the directive and, on the one hand, to make the new legislation directly applicable in practice by adopting appropriate organisational and implementing measures for our impressive fellow citizens. Culture is a concept inherent in the universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The state has a duty to ensure their full enjoyment by persons with disabilities without discrimination. In reverse terms, discrimination against any disabled person is a self-evident violation of the intrinsic dignity and the value of the individual's personality enshrined in the Constitution and International Law. Despite the various announcements and commitments at each regulatory level from the Constitution and International Law to ministerial decisions and circulars, people with disabilities continue in practice to face obstacles to their participation as equal members of society. This does not only affect our people with disabilities. It affects us all. Deprivation and obstacles to full equitable integration of all in social, spiritual and economic life makes us poorer. We need our people with disabilities. We have a duty to ensure for them, in practice, equal conditions of access to and enjoyment of intellectual and cultural goods. That is why we prioritised the incorporation of Directive 2017/1564 on permitted use of works for the benefit of the printed disabled in the internal legal order, which SYRIZA had failed to do since October 2018, when the deadline for transposition of the directive into the internal legal order expired, until 5-6-2019, when a draft was tabled by the previous political leadership in Parliament, which was not, as we know, voted because of the elections. Our concern with this draft law is to facilitate printed disabilities for the use of works protected under copyright or related rights. The formal disabled have a fundamental right to access spiritual production. With this right, the right to education and education, as well as the right to participate in the country's spiritual, social and economic life, is indissociable. For those not familiar with the specific problem covered by this legislative initiative, the provisions of the Directive correspond in substance to the provisions of the World Intellectual Property Organisation Treaty, the Marrakesh Treaty, to facilitate access for blind, blunt or other people with other problems of reading literature in published works, signed on behalf of the European Union, with a view to improving the availability and cross-border exchanges of certain protected works and other objects of protection in accessible format, for the benefit of blind and people with other problems of reading literature. The main idea of the directive is that it allows the responsible imprinters and the printers themselves to produce copies of accessible formats, for example in Braille or in recorded books, without having to obtain the author's permission beforehand. Thus, the Directive introduces an imaginary exception to the patented right of authors to exploit their intellectual property. In addition to the possibility of producing copies of accessible formats, other relevant uses, such as presentation, disposal, distribution, always benefiting the disabled and always on a non-profit basis, are allowed to be produced to competent bodies. Apart from the above central idea of non-authorisation by authors for the benefit of printers, the directive enables Member States to regulate freely the question of the remuneration of authors of printed dismissals, while encouraging Member States to make a restrictive use of this possibility, in view of the easier use of printed works. In this context, and by expressing the spirit of both the directive and the Marrakesh Treaty on improving the availability of printed works, the bill was chosen in principle without remuneration. In other words, it is proposed that the responsible bodies of fictitious dismissal, but also those of the printers themselves, may make use of protected works without the author's permission and without the payment of remuneration or compensation for it. That option was chosen taking into account the criteria set out in the Directive, according to the recitals of which, if the loss of a right holder is a minimum, there should be no obligation to pay compensation. In the present case, it was considered that the number of printed dismissals in Greece and their use by converting the works into an accessible format is not such as to justify the provision of a remuneration or compensation scheme in favour of publishers. After all, at the hearing of the bodies in the committee, it is characteristic that the representatives of the authors and publishers accepted as legitimate, firstly, the restriction of their right as opposed to the MPs of the Officerial Response who insisted in favour of the provision of compensation, even for the uses of our fictitious fellow citizens. Noteworthy, according to information from the Intellectual Property Organization, works that have so far been converted into accessible formats amount to a thousand and fifty - ninety - nine, that is to say, about a hundred and twenty - five books per year. For each of these books there may have been little use or no use. In view of the fact that the number of books is limited and further the number of imaginatively small, according to an earlier study by the PAMAK, is estimated at twenty-one, whereas internationally, the percentage of books does not exceed 0.5% of the population, it was considered that the resulting remuneration would be minimal and certainly disproportionate in relation to the administrative burden of supporting and operating a remuneration mechanism. This solution is in line with the constitutional assessments and the available legal data. Firstly, as regards the constitutional dimension of the issue, it is noted that the constitutional right to property in which it is included and intellectual property is bent on the fundamental evaluations of the Constitution, in order to facilitate the access of the authoritarians to the intellectual production of the place, to social and economic life. Such a restriction in favour of the general interest, as referred to in Article 17 of the Constitution, is also the current requirement to facilitate the imprinted because the exercise of a fundamental right, in this case equal access for disabled persons to social intellectual and economic life on the basis of Articles 4, 5 and 21 of the Constitution, is by definition a public interest objective and therefore a legitimate restriction on the right to property. Secondly, international comparative data indicate the correctness of the solution chosen. The United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Belgium and many other European legal classes, with the exception of Germany and Austria, have opted for a free-use scheme in favour of unpaid and unpaid immunities. It is clarified that the plan does not cover all projects, but only projects which do not constitute educational writings. In order to compensate the beneficiaries for the current uses of all grades of training courses, the same as those intended for non-producers, i.e. non-printable persons, shall apply. Publishers and creators will be compensated for the use of prints by imprinters in the public education system, just as is the case for unprinted people. This remuneration is paid by the State as it is known in the context of the constitutionally free education and the statutory free provision of primary, secondary and tertiary writings. In this way, the authors shall not be charged on the one hand for the use of composite training courses, on the other hand, by the printers themselves with the payment of any amount as remuneration or compensation for the use of such works. For foreign languages, the same applies to free distribution of writings. As regards the authorised uses, the proposed draft law in accordance with the Directive stipulates that the competent bodies may produce copies of accessible formats of projects to which they have legal access, make available, distribute or lend those copies on a non-profit basis on a benefit, i.e. on a printed disposable or other competent body for their sole use by a beneficiary. The possibility to produce a copy of an accessible project format shall be acquired by the beneficiary or person acting on his behalf if the beneficiary has legal access to the project and the copy is intended for its own use. In this way, the potential for using the works in favour of the printed dismissals in relation to the earlier status of Law 3057/2002, which was limited only to the possibility of reproduction. Furthermore, the proposed draft law, in accordance with the Directive, provides for a framework of protection for their works and creators with a view to preventing piracy effects of such works issued digitally to competent organisations with a view to converting them into accessible formats. In particular: First, accessible formats can only be produced from projects in which operators and printers have legal access. Secondly, the competent bodies must take appropriate measures to prevent the unauthorised reproduction and disposal of the works which are available in an accessible format. At this point, we listened carefully to the fears of the authors and publishers who are concerned that the ferry should open up the illegal, unauthorised leakage of their works online. I would remind you first of all that, according to the OIE data to date, there has been no protest, complaint or legal dispute over infringements of intellectual property rights in the context of the implementation of measures for access by our fellow people with disabilities to works of art. However, in order to reduce this legitimate concern, which we share, we are making a legislative improvement in the existing wording so that the competent bodies are indirectly required, but without violating the directive, to comply with the relevant guidelines that the National Library is expected to issue. In particular, the legislative improvement makes it clear that if the competent bodies comply with the standards and guidelines drawn up by the National Library of Greece, pursuant to Article 1(4)(a) of Law 3149/2003, they are presumed to ensure the necessary level of protection for the works. This means that the regulation is of regulatory importance when the National Library adopts these guidelines, which it has not done so far. If, contrary to the legislature's suggestion, the competent bodies choose different protection measures, which the directive allows them, they will bear the burden of proof that these measures will have the necessary completeness and adequacy. In this way, provision is made for the directive to ensure that each competent body observes its own safety practices with the need for increased protection from any unauthorised use of the projects. Contrary to the usual practice of unprocessed incorporation of the provisions of the Directives in this draft law, an effort has been made to ensure that the provisions of the Directive, which are fully respected and incorporated, are framed with provisions of an organisational and executive nature which will allow for better incorporation of the Directive, in accordance with its finality. These legislative choices, in our view, constitute significant improvements in relation to the earlier draft law that the previous political leadership had put into public consultation without ever being voted on - and due to the elections -, a delay for which the country is already accountable to the European institutions. In particular, in order to facilitate the relevant paper-based conversion of the works into an accessible format, it is necessary for issuers to provide those entities with digital files, but not in another difficult processable form. Where such an obligation is infringed, judicial protection shall be granted by applying the relevant provisions of the civil procedure, in which reference shall be made, which shall provide for the convicted issuer to be sentenced to a penalty. In particular, Article 946 of the Code provides that the court is to condemn the debtor to execute the act and, in the event that he does not carry out it, sentences him of his own motion to a penalty of up to EUR 50,000 in favour of the lender and to a personal detention of up to one year. At this point we have taken into account the concern of the imaginary dissidents about possible delays in justice. For this reason, by adopting a procedural solution which is found on several points of intellectual property law, we are making a legislative improvement in which all differences between competent bodies and publishers regarding the obligation to issue digital copies are dealt with in the accelerated procedure of interlocutory measures. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] It is noted that both the introduction of the obligation of issuers to provide files in a digital format and the linking of that obligation to a procedural mechanism ensuring its implementation in practice had not been included in the draft law proposed by the previous political leadership, thus extremely weak of the rights granted to them. Secondly, in addition to blind and visually impaired people, it is proposed that deafness be included among the beneficiaries. This inclusion takes place in line with the more than decades of the present institutional framework. The unambiguous inclusion of the deaf among the beneficiaries would unduly remove from the deaf more than decades the opportunity for easier access to speech projects. It is recalled that the Greek legislature had already allowed unlicensed and unpaid reproduction of works for blind and deaf. This draft law extends the subjective scope with regard to persons benefiting, as all categories of imaginary persons are included instead of blind persons, while the protective provision for deaf persons is maintained. The National Library is already legally maintained in a list of copies of works in accessible format with the type of formats to which they have been reproduced, as well as with the competent body to which they are kept. The practice already in existence takes into account the draft law which provides that a list of all the projects prepared in an accessible format and the competent body to which they are subject shall be kept in the national Library. Although authors will not receive a fee, they will nevertheless be compensated for the arrangements for the use of the educational charts on the basis of those in force in educational writings, which are not intended for the formal disabled. In this respect, the option had previously been chosen to provide for compensation for each project in the absence of minimal damage, but excluding the method of calculating the compensation by the Joint Ministerial Decision. The problems of this choice were, on the one hand, the major insecurity of law and a large number of litigation as to when the damage is minimal and when the damage is greater than the minimum and, on the other, the particularly practical difficulty in adopting a Joint Ministerial Decision. The proposed regulation followed the legally correct solution to the distinction between educational and other writings. As has repeatedly been said - and rightly so - the people with disabilities, the dependency on the application of a legislative text - in particular a law relating to the exercise of fundamental rights - is weakening the text by adopting ministerial decisions, and it often leads to its being completely inappropriate. We choose the exact opposite. We do not need wishes, we need simple and practicable legislative texts. Before I close, I would like to respond to some of the points that have so far been made on the draft law by opposition. First, they claimed that there should be a specific request from beneficiaries in order to be able to obtain a digital copy. Of course, our issue has been a matter of concern from the outset. It was, however, considered that the wording, which would depend on the obligation to provide a digital record by an existing formal request, is out of the spirit and letter of the directive, which at no point sets out such a requirement, which is, in practice, a restriction on the exercise of the right of competent bodies. In addition, such a provision would cause many problems in practice, as well as bureaucratic burdens. For example, how will the competent body prove the existence of a request from a formal disabled person? In writing? Will the request be submitted by e-mail, with a visa of authentic signature? How? Finally, this will remove the possibility of another body, for example, the Blind Lighthouse, to create a file with a sufficient number of works, literature, for example, that can serve its members on first demand. If members were to submit a first request that they want to read a literary book, they would have to wait an estimated two to three months until the process of requesting a digital archive and its conversion is completed. Secondly, it raised the question of the definition of competent bodies and their authorisation. I note first of all that in the draft law the use of the term ‘competent entity’ was chosen instead of the ‘authorised entity’, as provided for in the directive, precisely because it is not an entity or entity authorised by one. In addition, the definition adopted is identical in substance to the definition of the Directive in order not to be removed from the subjective scope of the law by any body protected under Union law. The definition is therefore given in accordance with the Directive. There can be no specialisation, for example a nominal list of operators, because that would limit the scope of the directive. Any provision of prior authorisation of bodies would require preventive control, which is not permitted in accordance with the directive itself, and would make it difficult for the functionality and effectiveness of regulation. I would remind you that we are talking about bodies providing education, training, customized reading or access to information on a non-profit basis, and it can even be public or non-profit-making that the body providing these services to the beneficiaries as one of its main activities, as an institutional obligation in the public interest of its mission. Finally, it has been developed at the hearing of the reflection bodies on the financial support both of beneficiaries and of European-funded fictitious bodies, as part of the implementation of this Directive, for example, for the conversion of projects into accessible formats. Although it is not regulated, the Ministry of Culture certainly encourages such actions and will support the economic strengthening of similar initiatives with European Union resources within its competence. Finally, we hope that, following the above-mentioned points and the legislative improvements, this legislative initiative will receive a wider resonance, both in Parliament and in society. It is high time that the issues of protecting and equitable integration of our fellow people with disabilities became a headline for joint actions, common goals and real solidarity and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u20	SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Janakopoulos has asked for the floor. May I give you the time properly, Mr. Janakopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, I did not even intend to be present. I'll talk about three, four minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u22	All right, I'll give you four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u23	...responding to the Minister of Culture, Ms. Mendoni, because she raised some issues of wider political interest at the beginning of her speech and I feel obliged to make a brief speech. As I told you, I didn't mean to be placed. The issue will be exhausted by the other SYRIZA Members. Perhaps I can say two, three words on the basis of what has been heard so far. A question first, Mrs Mendoni chose to accuse SYRIZA that she allegedly applied party-state policies, when she and the party that is now to be served by the Minister's position in the last seven months that she has not only control over the state, but also the suffocating and absolute power of any form of administrative and state structure. This is a policy which is not solely a policy of Ms Mendoni - it is of course being implemented with great zeal - but is a policy of the whole government, with the ultimate responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis. We have all pointed this out all these months. We can find dozens of incidents. One that concerns, for example, the Minister itself is the incident of the State Theatre of Northern Greece, where both the administration and the artistic director have been publicly placed for the actions of hard party rule implemented by the Minister. We could find dozens of examples and multiply the list, talk by tomorrow morning about the ERT, about the reasoning that gave rise to the government's decisions in relation to hospital governors and how many others. This list does not end! I would therefore say, Minister, on these issues, that you are a little more glamorous, that you are a little more self-serving in terms of your objectives and policies. The second one relates again to an episode of hard-core partisanism, but also to a special relationship with ergonomic interests, because Ms. Mendonis chose to transform the Central Archaeological Council into the representatives of the contractors of the metro of Thessaloniki, with the sole aim of serving special interests and leading the whole process in such a way that we ultimately had a direct infringement of Article 42 of the archaeological law which - Mrs. Mendoni will know about it - he says and requires that a monument be transferred only for the purpose of technical work or technical work, and only to the extent that it is absolutely impossible for this monument to exist in his natural space. We therefore have a clear violation of the archaeological law with the responsibility of the Minister, with the sole aim of serving special interests. And the question is very simple to the Minister of Culture, but also to Mr Karamanlis, whom the Minister of Culture has chosen to assist in his "good" task, to transfer the metro and the delivery of the work to 2023, and we know very well that the metro could work in 2020. But for reasons which you, even in the best interests of the contractor, seem to be concerned with the interests of the contractor, you transfer it to 2023, subject to the reservation, I will tell you that in 2023 you will not be able to deliver the project, as on the basis of the positions that have been made by the Hellenic Association of Archaeologists, as well as by other competent bodies, the movement of the ancients needs at least forty-two to six months. So, with complete knowledge of the situation, you choose to implement a policy against the public interest, which eventually ends up serving the contractors of the project, as you are used to as a government. Thirdly, I am impressed, Mrs Mendoni, that on the question of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Sport you are choosing to throw away the glove. Do you know what this is about, ladies and gentlemen? For seventeen felony persecutions to officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Ministry of Solidarity, for felonies, including during the term of office of Ms. Mendoni as General Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Really, then what did you do? Did you do anything? Did you raise the matter? The whole of Greece was bogging for an outbreak of corruption, a huge outbreak of corruption, and you didn't hear anything during your term of office? What were the actions you have taken to highlight this huge scandal? On the contrary, you come today and I dare say that you are choosing a line that at least gives us huge questions. Who's that? It is the line to put the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture and Sport into liquidation in operation. What for? To be able to remove the director, that official who brought the scandal into publicity and took all the necessary steps to ensure that the felony acts that you have either in the past or you had no idea and simply didn't really know what was going on in your own ministry or you tolerated them. And the problem here do you know what it is? That while you did nothing during your term of office, you come today and remove the principal and put the fund in operation. Watch out what's the matter here. The point here is that you put the fund in operation, despite the fact that there has been legislation that now makes it transparent and reduces its funding on very specific terms and conditions, as they had been laid down by the SYRIZA Government. Do you do so to put your own clearer, which will be completely controlled and will be the man who will undertake to transfer and transmit all the necessary information to complete the investigation and the judicial case concerning, I say, felony persecution for seventeen employees? All of this, Mrs Méndonis, is in an extremely difficult political position and it is good to give some clear explanation, because in seven months' time you have managed to record yourself as the Minister of Political Disgrace in the Ministry of Culture, and that is also your responsibility, but also Mr Mitsotakis' responsibility. As far as the bill is concerned specifically now, I should like to say two - three words. I think that Mrs Canelley was right in her remarks. The issue of our fellow citizens, our disabled fellow citizens, the question, if you wish, of support and social welfare, I think that it goes far beyond the special arrangements that we have before us today and are, indeed, true that it is suffering from the Greek social state in relation to institutions, in relation to structures, in relation to legislation and also to everyday practices that can create a decent life for these people. However, I should like to make a small point. We agree with the JRC's position, of course, that there is a need for a public body to undertake this difficult and painful work, so that all these people, our fellow citizens, can access the works of the spirit, but at the same time there must be provision in the bill and provisions, which at least we do not see, so that piracy can not be promoted. We believe that the Ministry should, even at the moment, make specific contributions towards avoiding piracy, which we know is one of the major problems facing intellectual creators both in our country and in Europe and throughout the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u25	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u26	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u27	First of all, I am sorry that a draft law on such a matter also gives the floor to another type of controversy, but because I did not, Mr Janakopoulou, raise the issues, and I had to answer them, so I will answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u28	You answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u29	Of course, I did, but you put it. First of all, I should like to start with the Solidarity Fund. There has indeed been criminal prosecution, but the main interrogation stage has not been completed. Let's not forget that. One is that. You sent them to justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u30	What did you do as Secretary General of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u31	I heard you. You'll listen to me now, too. You sent the cases to justice. Justice is doing its job without any interference from anywhere. Why are you worried? You are speaking and referring to the Director, who has been on your day of control and control. You could've booked the fund. You didn't. You have chosen to regulate it so that it would seem that there is a sum that can be financed, but, by decision of the Minister of Culture, this amount could reach some very high levels. Moreover - and I now reply on staff - the conclusion of the General Accounting Office of the State, which you invoke, refers to the period 2005-2017 and discusses offences for the period I was not Secretary-General at the Ministry, not for the period I was. You may laugh, but that's reality. And now come to the most serious. We may have changed our administrations. The institutional framework for changing administrations, and indeed, especially for the Ministry of Culture, to remove certain people who were not excellent, you institutions in 2015 with Law4327, Article 32. Finally, because you have extensively referred to the Central Archaeological Council, you are first insulting scientists of international prestige by considering them as institutions of the political leadership in question. I would remind you, of course, for the second time, that you have changed the Central Archaeological Council immediately after the elections. Article 42 of Law 3028/2002 states that a secondment may be made only for reasons of public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u32	How many archaeologists have today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u33	The people he had to have by law. The composition of the CSCE is laid down by law! The public interest, Mr. Janakopoulos, was already identified by the Council of State in the 2016 Decision. Because, according to the 2013 Decision, antiquities were to be extracted. Moreover, everything can be done when there are studies. When there are no studies, your own government, your political leadership has led the Council to give an opinion on unsigned projects as well as on unambiguous projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. I shall now give the floor to Mr Lebanese, a Parliamentary representative from New Democracy, and immediately after that, Mr Villardos has asked for the floor. Will you need all the time, Mr. Levane?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u35	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come today, as the Minister said, to discuss a bill, an incorporation of a directive that improves the lives of our fellow citizens, of our fellow citizens with disabilities for their admission to the world of culture, as SYRIZA's dear colleague, said before, and instead, we are entering a conflict that does not benefit anyone. The first comment is that it is precisely this accessibility and accessibility for disabled people that is not the privilege of the Left. You said so, you said it again. This position belongs to everyone who has this sensitivity. It will therefore be good for you not to share the Greek people, as you usually do. The Minister, Ms. Mendonis, has been well and technocratically placed at the beginning. It was challenged by the SYRIZA rapporteur to respond to specific issues, with personal attention, and I would say that the parliamentary spokesman did so as a result of the Civilian Opposition Party. As long as we are all here at this summit, I have never seen a Minister before answering so specifically the questions raised and leaving none of them unanswered. Instead of raising tons and doing this party gymnastics, come and see the latter especially. The Minister tells you these cases have gone to justice. Take the floor again and tell us what you fear of justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u38	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u39	Yeah, what is it that makes you jump all the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u40	What are you afraid of in NoVARTIS?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u41	...and dismiss the political leadership and not allow justice to do its job? Me, and the whole of the Greek people, lead us to conclude that what your partner, Mr. Paulakis, said, is that you want to put four thousand judges in this House, so that you can rule on the second left, is the same reason why you come here today and dance again on the issues of the Ministry of Culture. So let's go to justice with all the issues if you want to, and to the issues that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u42	Excuse me, Madam President, but there is no Minister in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u43	The Minister will be here. Let me say we're people, for a second he can come out. I think this has happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u44	In this context, then, I think you should throw the tone and get a little serious. In any case, you have launched other charges, such as party domination, attempt to seize power and so on. It is not us - and it is not the Minister, of course, who has a technocratic excellence and is thus politically conducting all the seven months in the leadership of the Ministry of Culture - those who have spoken of changes in the joints of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u45	Since you guys have the joints.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u46	You have this perception, you are dealing in this way and you are destroying, along with the economy and all cultural policy, which has been inexistent over your days. In this context, therefore, I think there is no need for much further discussion. You are returning, as your Chief did this weekend, to an effort to create tension when the country needs substantial answers and policy changes. A milder criticism has been made by representatives of the Greek Solution and the Communist Party, who have, in fact, entered a greater analysis of the more general issues and the general policy on people with disabilities and their integration into society. And because our rapporteur, Mrs Papakostas - Palioura, with an excellent suggestion, covered all the subject of this directive, I would like to take the skatelet from the two colleagues - the Greek Solution and the Communist Party - who have been severely and stressfully placed and try to give an answer to this framework, which they have set for the overall framework of infrastructure and the change of mentality to deal with our fellow citizens with disabilities. These fellow citizens, therefore, in Greece over time, suffer a discreet treatment from the state, but also from their own fellow citizens, a treatment that often causes all of our fellow citizens to feel as children of a lower God, part of life, thereby being closed down to themselves and being pushed to the margin of society. In this way, however, our society is virtually lacking in talent, people with unique skills and skills that could creatively contribute to the development of our country at all levels. At a recent meeting of the Subcommittee on Disabled Persons, some elements have been presented which must be a source of serious reflection for all of us and should lead us to do. That is exactly what both colleagues spoke about before. In particular, according to ESDC figures, six out of ten of our fellow citizens with serious disability live in the range of poverty and exclusion. 42.8% of the population with severe disability from 16 years of age to fifty-nine lives in households with a severe underemployment rate. These figures are obviously a disgrace to all of us, to the entire Greek society and to all those who went through these benches. It is a number that proves that today, at the dawn of the fourth industrial revolution, at the time of the rapid development of technology and the possibilities offered by it, our country is indifferent, indifferent for almost one million of our fellow citizens, who are about the people with some form of disability in Greece. We must therefore all act, take measures to enable our fellow citizens to return to social and political life, to feel equal to others and not to others. The New Democracy Government is already working hard in this direction. In December 2019, people with disabilities were given the social dividend, a small financial support to people, of course, who give a titanic struggle. At the same time, however, as in other areas, we have undertaken the difficult task of carrying out deep reorganisation of state policy in this area. To this end, I would remind you, a national coordinator for the rights of people with disabilities was appointed by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapitris, whose main task is to set up a national action plan on the rights of persons with disabilities, a plan to include all our country's commitments under European international legislation on the rights of disabled persons. The planning for the implementation of this policy is already in full progress. In January, a special technical committee was set up with bodies from all the ministries concerned, and in all ministries already this month, the mapping of all services and agencies employed with disabled people was carried out to stop the division of responsibilities. After this action has been completed, the bodies that will communicate exactly with people with disabilities will be designated, and by the end of 2020 - this is our programme - will have completed the national action plan, a plan that will provide for the establishment of the national accessibility authority and will incorporate all the recommendations on the rights of disabled people in our country. In this great effort to change the way the disabled are treated in our homeland, obviously we need each other, we need allies. To this end, we call on the government and the New Democracy all and everyone in this Chamber to support this effort, to participate with fertile ideas and proposals and not with this kind of opposition, which you have done again today, even for a few minutes, so that we can really change the living conditions for our thousands of fellow citizens with disabilities, create the conditions for their smooth integration into society, make use of their knowledge and their talent. The consensus on this bill is only a ray of light, that is to say, the political system can in large, the important to produce work rather than miserable coconut battle, lead our country forward. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the right - regardless of political controversy - to exclude anyone from society. On the contrary, we have an obligation to work hard to throw down any separating walls that still exist and unfortunately there are many of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Villiardos has the floor from the Greek Solution as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I think it is disgraceful that we are constantly bringing out draft laws, because we are being imposed by the European Union and, as usual, by a long delay. The bill now concerns the incorporation of another European Union directive on certain authorised uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection, under intellectual property rights and related rights for the benefit of the blind, cotton and individuals with other problems of reading literature, in addition to amending the 2001 Directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. In particular, it refers to: First, it defines the scope of the draft law to be adopted and sets out definitions necessary to understand the arrangements in question. Secondly, it provides the possibility not only to competent bodies but also to beneficiaries or persons acting on behalf of a beneficiary without the authorisation of the project creator and without payment to carry out any operation necessary to enable them to produce a copy of an accessible project format, intended for exclusive use by themselves. Thirdly, it is foreseen that each copy of an accessible format must fulfil the condition of respect, integrity of the project, taking into account the changes required to make the project accessible to a different format. Fourthly, the obligations of the competent bodies shall be laid down in the case where they do so. Fifthly, it is clarified that the beneficiaries receive the same compensation for the provisions of the draft law in question, for the use of primary, secondary and tertiary education letters as those received for the use of the same writings by the non-profit-making persons. Sixth, it shall be permitted to reproduce, present and make available to the public without the right of the beneficiary and without payment for the benefit of deaf persons, where those uses are directly linked to their disability and are not of a commercial character to the extent required by that disability. Finally, there is the entry into force of the draft law, while the proposed provisions do not give rise to budgetary implications on the state budget and on the budgets of the other bodies of the general government. My colleague analysed them in detail and mentioned our points, so we will refer to the recent question I asked to Mr Karamanlis about the transfer of Heraklion airport to Kastelli. His first answer was to call me left, obviously because the government has no environmental sensitivities at all, and he considers that anyone's interest in the environment automatically means that he has left-wing beliefs, which, in my opinion, is unacceptable! My main objections, however, were not so much the environment as the issue of economics, because I think it is inappropriate to transfer the airport while it is much more beneficial to improve it. When I found out that the winner of the competition was the only company that took part - truth, what a competition he is with only one participant - and the same one who won the competition for the casino in Greek was reasonable to express my reservations. His answer was that the competition was conducted by SYRIZA, that the state has continued and therefore its policy is correct because it was carried out by the previous government. I presented the much more expensive cost of building it per passenger compared to "Eleftherios Venizelos" - per passenger and not on the issue of size - noting, among other things, that there were huge overpricings in the latter, as was the custom of construction only in Greece, so they should be carefully observed. Because he now mentioned to me the ideal sale of the fourteen profitable airports in the German State 'FRAPORT' - in my opinion, it was a sale with a scandalous contract - and invoking the modernisation of Thessaloniki's airport and without any response time, I would like to mention here: In addition to buying the airports with loans from the Greek banks, the ‘FRAPORT GREECE’ received the largest direct financing after the Greek banks from the European Union, followed by the German ‘COSMOTE’, which took 150 million. In order to upgrade the Greek airports, "FRAPORT" received 280 million for an investment of 400 million, of course money that Greece would take. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall also mention that the issue of airports has been intensively addressed by the International Transparency, exploring suspects, often very dirty, cases of trade in the privatization industry in Europe, as has been mentioned. I'm filing the first page in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Immediately after the acquisition, the ‘FRAPORT’ increased the fees per passenger from EUR 0,30 to EUR 16,74 or more from EUR 12,30 to EUR 13, as the scandalous contract allowed it, with the average fee being now at EUR 14,50. As regards the barren lines, the State will have to pay enough money, such as in the case of the state-owned Italian who bought TRAINOSE, literally against a lens plate, while its Minister for Infrastructure promised EUR 50 million for 15 years, i.e. 750 million for the barren lines, when the Italians bought only 40-45 million for the entire TRAINOSE. After airport upgrades are completed with funds from the EIF Juncker package and the European Investment Bank, which Greece could get, the fees will be increased again to 18 euros, while they have already increased to some airports that have been made projects for the eyes of the world, such as Chania, Kavala and Zakynthos. Furthermore, we must note that the economic data of the fourteen airports before their sale have not been known and there is not even full knowledge of the contract. If all of these are the basic features of the reasoned liberalism of the government - as the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure called it - then it can easily be predicted where Greece is going to drive, and also where our private and public assets will end, and having the view that especially in terms of mass auctions under the new bankruptcy regime since 1 May are a prerequisite for the plan 'HRAKLIS', co-operation, namely, government and banks. In conclusion, I should like to refer to Greece's biggest problem, the demographic problem, including as a result of the memoranda - and I stress it, among other things, as a result of the memoranda - which we have been imposed on us on the basis of the recent proportional study based on EUROSTAT. In this respect, there is the demographic collapse of Greece, without any overcompensation, as well as in Europe, and at the same time a great increase in immigration. According to EUROSTAT, the population of Greece from ten million seven hundred twenty-nine thousand in 2018 is falling to eight million four hundred and fifty-three thousand in 2070, while the new migration will increase to nine hundred thousand. In other words, from nineteen thousand nine hundred ninety-nine foreigners, according to official figures in Greece, in 2018 compared to a population of ten million seven hundred and twenty-nine thousand, in 2070 foreign immigrants will officially reach one million seven hundred sixty-sixty-six hundred thirty-one against a population of eight million four hundred seventy-seven thousand. We'll also talk at percentages that will be reached. We always talk with official information, which many of us do not believe, knowing exactly what is happening. For example, we do not believe that the illegal immigration of last year is in the seventy or eighty thousand that is officially called, but much larger. So based on the official figures from 8.5% today, 2070 will reach 21.2%. We all know that no country can cope with foreign immigrants more than 10% of its population. In particular, as regards the mass migration of our young people, particularly to Germany, I will mention the following for those who want to understand: "The aim is to reduce the population by eviction and violent immigration in such a small number that foreign entrepreneurs can safely function. They have a common interest in turning the foreign country into pastures that will provide their own country with meat and wool at the cheapest possible prices. Due to the increasing concentration of ownership, the foreign country is constantly sending its own surplus workforce to their own labour market and continuously reducing the wages and the position of workers in their own country." The above were written by Karl Marx in 1870 on the situation in Ireland, in relation to the involvement of English capital there in the years after the great famine of 1845-1850 and the mass exit of the Irish population. In addition, Marx is given the following phrase: ‘The economic migrants are the Trojan horse of capital for the abundance of the labour conquests of the locals’. If we now place Greece and Germany in the position of Ireland, we will understand exactly what is happening in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Kamines, has now asked for the floor, and we will then proceed to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. They will allow me first of all to address the issue of the construction of closed centres in the Aegean islands. The basic size of democratic governance, ladies and gentlemen, is confidence. This is the fundamental link between the citizen and his representative in the House, and this is ultimately the fundamental relationship on which democracy is founded. Once this bond of confidence has been broken, the citizen's relationship with his Member is a major blow. But here, the question of credibility is getting much greater scope. It concerns the government as a whole. Electionally, the New Democracy made promises to the islanders that once it took over power will immediately dismantle the islands. The construction of the closed centres on the islands today does not just affect the personal authority of the Minister responsible for immigration, it does not only break the link between the same and his own Haitian compatriots and his electors, but devastates the authority of the government itself and therefore affects the democratic community. How much more so when the Prime Minister himself last July from Samos, six days before the elections, assured the Samians that he would conclude a 'truth Agreement' with them, as he called it, which provided for immediately applicable measures for the decongestion of the islands. Sadly, however, it is not only the government’s credibility that comes from this story. The deception suffered by the inhabitants of the islands also violates the constitutional principle of equality between Greeks before the law. I had already stressed this on several occasions the days we were discussing here at the National Representation, the Act on Asylum. I said then that it is not possible for the refugee to call on all Europeans fora the solidarity of our European partners and we here in the country to establish a two-speed Greece, that is to say, an unacceptable distinction between the Greeks of the island of Greece, who are called upon to bear all the weight of the refugee, and the other Greeks, those of the mainland, who are exempted from the obligation of patriotic solidarity. The government has the illusion that it can by violence and authoritarianism enforce its choices. Right now that we're talking here in Vrondus of Chios, people are furious. The most peaceful Hills have been out on the streets and will resist by all legal means against the government's authoritarianism. I am talking about a legal instrument, because it is, in fact, a legitimate defence of a peaceful population against the unfair attack that is taking place. The government's attack is unfair because, as I said, it is based on the political deception of the islands and the moral offense, which exist by an authoritarian government, which treats them as if they were second-class citizens. No governmental action, no camps, closed or open, will precipitate if it is confronted with the universal reaction of the people. You have managed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to turn whole local communities against you. Do you know why? Because people feel humiliated. You've ruined their dignity because you're treating them as a rag. This humiliation, this humiliation, no one tolerates him. I'd like to say a few things about the bill. To start with, it is a positive step forward, and however small it may be, however late it can only be positive, how much more so when it is a constitutional obligation arising from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in the direction of guaranteeing the right of people with disabilities, full social and professional integration and participation in terms of equality. When this step is taken to ensure access to a section of Greek society, people who have visual problems, to culture, we can only be positive. Of course, our rapporteur, both in committee and in plenary, has made some reservations. Because the role of the legislator, in this case, is to ensure parallel protection of copyright and related rights. There are serious reservations and concerns made by disabled people's organisations, etc., about academic and foreign language writings and we all know that this is a cost that many cannot respond to. The state has to take care of it. I'm coming up on the arrangements. As far as Article 1 is concerned, we have listened carefully to the views of publishers and the positions of academic libraries on the specifications of each body. We must find a gold incision so that the regulation can be operational. In Article 4, the legislator's provision for access by the beneficiary to a copy of an accessible work format without permission and remuneration is positive. However, the National Blind Federation has asked for clarification as to who body is responsible for the award of the writings of undergraduate and postgraduate students and candidates. In Article 7, the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons, the National Federation of Blinds and the Pan-Hellenic Blind Association have expressed their concerns based on reasonable arguments. Entities producing primary, secondary and higher education books in an accessible format for students with visual disabilities are obliged to pay the same remuneration to beneficiaries as to contractual books. This raises issues of unequal treatment that we all understand. In tertiary education, things are worse, as there is no single body of publication of academic literature, while often students resort to a multitude of writings. Today, the institutions themselves are turning part of their educational material into an accessible format, which may by this provision act as an incentive. They should not be excluded, but they should be regulated not only by academic writings, but also by foreign language writings. In Article 8, the extension of the arrangements for deaf people is also positive. The Change Movement has highlighted the points where clarification is needed, possibly some changes, but of course we are in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" thirty-one students and students and two teachers from the General School of "Eleftherios Venizelos" Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vetta from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. We have tabled a topical question on all the issues relating to culture, and we hope that we will have specific answers from the Minister on these questions we have raised. So I would like to use time to talk about the directive and the MEDIs, but to restore the truth, a little mention. In Thessaloniki today, the supposedly nonexistent studies of 2017 for the coexistence of the ancients and the metro were presented at an open event. And they were presented by the scholars themselves who had not supposedly signed them, as the Minister maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are debating today concerns the fundamental rights of individuals with problems of reading documents, as they are recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In particular, it concerns the blind, persons with irreversible amblyopia, persons with perceptive or reading disabilities including dyslexia or any other learning difficulties and persons who cannot, due to physical disability, hold in their hands or handle books or focus or move their eyes so as to be able to read properly and to an acceptable extent printed works. The objective of this Directive is therefore to improve the availability of books, electronic books, specialised inspections, newspapers, periodicals and other written texts or other printed texts in formats which make works and material accessible to such persons as those without such disabilities. However, Article 2 of this Legislation shall be replaced by the title of Article 28A of Law 2121/1993 which reads: ‘Reproduction for the benefit of blind and deaf persons’ under the title ‘Possible uses for the benefit of imprinted disabled persons and persons with other disabilities’. In other words, the term'sub-disabled' is used, which does not exist in the text of the directive and may restrict the scope of the cases to which it refers. Whilst under Article 8, entitled 'Deaf' - which will be incorporated as paragraph 12 in Article 28a - it becomes clear after its amendment that people with other disabilities - referred to in the title - will only be included as deaf and no other category of disabled persons. In our view, the scope of the draft law is artificially limited, but significant. In this regard, the Commission considers that the State aid in question does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In this way, an exception or restriction could be made for persons and persons with disabilities, i.e. persons covered by Article 3 of this Directive, in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Directive. I am tabling the specific passages from the explanatory statement and Article 2 of the draft law of the previous government. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, as has been pointed out many times at the meetings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on the obligations of competent bodies, the scope for unauthorised reproduction of works is largely left to the public. The previous government bill provided for the adoption of a ministerial decision to specialise the minimum measures necessary to comply with this obligation. You have chosen to remove this provision, thereby increasing the concerns that have arisen about the illegal reproduction of projects and making effective implementation of the law doubtful. Finally, according to the directive, Member States may provide for compensation schemes for the production of copies of works in accessible format and their authorised uses in their territory, without, of course, burdening beneficiaries. However, this draft law provides for compensation only in respect of primary, secondary and tertiary education. This may raise issues of discrimination between beneficiaries of other projects, which are governed by a similar intellectual property regime, while we fear that they may arise because of lack of clarity and interpretative issues in this provision. For example, does this compensation relate only to the supply of the writing in its normal form? Who will bear the cost of converting these charts into an accessible format? Because we recall that in the previous government's bill this expenditure was intended to be covered for all forms, whether from government budget appropriations or from European Union programmes. This draft law does not even make it clear about educational writings. Will the State cover the relevant cost of conversion or not? The report by the General Accounting Office of the State states that no further expenditure is incurred in the state budget. So what is it here and how does this particular provision of the directive incorporate, which requires that beneficiaries do not bear? Eventually the cost of conversion into an accessible format, and for educational writings will be borne by the beneficiaries themselves? We need clear answers here, Minister. As we have said, we are good at the outset at the incorporation of this directive, although it comes at eight months' time in Parliament and does not achieve maximum weighting and safeguarding of individual rights. The SYRIZA government's bill ensured, as far as possible, the rights of all, broadened access qualitatively and quantitatively to all persons with disabilities, while strengthening the framework for preventing piracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, please. We must ensure, as a state and as a society, equal access for all people to knowledge and ensure that any relevant expenditure in the case of people with disabilities is covered by the state. Consequently, the way this Directive is incorporated into national law is only a small step towards facilitating access to books and other printed material for people with readable disabilities. There is still much to be done to talk about parity and full access for all people with disabilities to entertainment, knowledge and culture. And they certainly do not help in this direction political choices such as, for example, the amendment by Ms. Mendoni of the CYA to establish free entrance tickets to museums and archaeological sites, which are now only entitled to the attendances of people with disabilities above 80%, while the CYR of the previous government allowed free entry to the meeting of all AMEAs with a disability rate of more than 50%. The Panhellenic Federation of Parents and Princes of Disabled Persons calls for this decision to be returned immediately, as, for example, many of our fellow humans suffering from mental disability, autism, Down Syndrome, etc. are in the disability range between 67% and 80% and are unable to go to a museum or anywhere else alone. This is a decision which is contrary to national provisions and also to the UN Convention on the Rights of SMUs in Cultural Goods. The previous decision, which has now been amended to the worst, was undeniably - as parents themselves claim - in the right spirit because of the unequivocal additional costs resulting from the existence of disability, while at the same time demonstrating the wish of the legislator to support the members of the disabled family with similar measures. I submit to the minutes the letter from the Panhellenic Federation of Parents and Princess of Persons with Disabilities to the Minister of Culture. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I hope, in future, that there will be brave legislative, government initiatives that will defend and do not shrink the rights of small and medium-sized enterprises and other sensitive social groups through the constant effort to dedicate their achievements for the sake of micro-party purposes, a practice in which, in particular, the Ministries of Culture and Education are, unfortunately, taking the lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution. Mrs Alexopoulou will then be given the floor, also from the Greek Solution. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the harmonisation of our country with the Community directive is now being ratified for the benefit of the blind, blunt and people with problems of reading literature. Let me comment on the selective compliance of the governments concerned with the Community directives. Wherever it is concerned, where there is no need for any particular effort and organization, where no 'day' interests are affected, there is a willingness to harmonise with Community directives. In other cases, which would also benefit all of us, we prefer to impose strict fines instead. At the moment, this bill seems to be an opportunity for Greece to contribute to the dissemination of knowledge and culture to people who need it and to date have not been treated worthy of it, but it does not mean that we are not concerned about the possibility of unfair treatment by professionally involved categories. It is also gratifying to note the Government's willingness to take care of the deaf. These sensitive social groups must be supported, all of which must be supported. I stress that. I am referring to children with autism and mental retardation and other neurological and motor diseases. We must ensure that they are equitable in society, their survival and their normal everyday lives, and their families, without expecting any Community directive to force us to do so. I am therefore taking this opportunity to refer here to a number of issues relating to people with such special needs and their health, as I am particularly sensitive to these issues because of personal experience. And I'm explaining. The specific treatments relating to autism, mental discomfort and neuromuscular disorders need to be provided regardless of age on a daily basis, in working days, but with a different involvement of the public from the existing and without arbitrary retrospective reductions of existing disability rates based on the doctor’s crisis and the beneficiary’s needs. This will facilitate efforts to increase segregation and skills in supported SMEs. It is necessary to prioritise the setting-up and operation of daily care centres - not night-time centres - capable of covering the most likely numerical incidents per region for young children with problems of motor, mental, autism and mental backwardness. It is worth mentioning that the 24-hour stay centers absorb for every patient more than a thousand euros who can be saved, because the parents, in their overwhelming majority, want to spend their little children at home with them. The accommodation structures of the AIFM should relate only to the cases of over-aged parents or protectors who are inherently unable to support their children alone. It should also be noted that the slight support for the first degree relative of the HEI is more effective, both for the structures of the ESS and for the psychology of the hospital. The special school of each grade and region in terms of jurisdiction, real estate and infrastructure would probably be better owned by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and not the Ministry of Education, for the full management of each MEDIA and its afternoon use should accommodate special therapists who will pay a scorched rent for the use of the site or rooms. In addition, a pediatrician should have absolute supervision at every special school where children are hosted with autism or mental discomfort with the possibility of attending the HEIs until the age of twenty-five years. The conduct of the special treatments within the special school that must be under the continuous supervision of the municipality in the afternoon hours will cause economies of scale and cut costs for the Greek State when these are made by staff of specialist scientists paid for in relation to work. When the latter takes place, parents are not required to visit the EEAS to testify to medical or therapeutic expenses, which saves working hours and lost time by parents and civil servants. As an intermediate stage of the subjection of the healers to the above proposed system, any remuneration which needs to be paid directly to any certified Greek public therapists without intermediation of a parent. Invalidity assessment should also be carried out with the participation of the treating physician. The qualifications of the members of the committee should be relevant to the disability concerned in order to avoid mistaken assessments of disability rates, because an error decision will be to the detriment of the patient both economically and psychologically. A parent or relative who cares for an AME and who is unable to work because of the disability of his child should be assisted. This tactic will save resources and for the benefit of the Greek State, as it will no longer be necessary for the parent to seek support structures. Immediate registration of AIFMs by category in an invalidity register by issuing an AIFM card, which will bring some privileges to the holder by demonstrating it. The need for a direct registration of the institution to help hospitalise at home with health problems not permitted. I would like to close my parentheses and thank you for your attention, considering that what I have said is imposed on a civilised country. With regard to the draft law we are debating today, it is foreseen that the beneficiaries, namely those who have the option under the law to create copies for the benefit of the printers, must take appropriate measures and prevent the illegal reproduction, distribution and disposal of works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. These measures are not clearly mentioned. On the contrary, general and vague reference is made. This dome landscape favours piracy. In order to avoid this and with respect for intellectual work and intellectual property, we consider it necessary to provide for detailed measures to be made compulsory in their implementation by competent recognised bodies. Subsequently, it is explicitly foreseen that no remuneration is due to the recipients affected, and in contrast to the general rule and, once again, a vague wording is provided for in the draft law for compensation in the case of educational books. Why not provide for the payment of a reasonable remuneration, which is explicitly provided for in the directive? How is the responsibility of the State for exercising social policy allowed to be transferred to the back of authors and publishers? Of course, there are some countries that have adopted this European directive, without the fair remuneration of writers, creators and publishers. But what practices do they follow and apply in these countries? Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that defending rights of vulnerable social groups is a spectacular task. Helping and helping the blind and their having reduced vision is given by us and it is certain that they themselves seek it and will be glad to accept it. This team doesn't bother me. But those who worry me and worry me are the others, the unscrupulous and the blind ones and who, sometimes, legislate to lead us to dead ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two attendants of their teachers from the General Eleftherios Venizelos (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have three other speakers and we are marginal in relation to parliamentary control. That is why I would ask you to keep a little time as it should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u56	Don't interrupt the vote. We have to vote until 6 p.m. I give up every second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u57	That is why I say we must be consistent in our time. I'm not strict. You see, today there's a little tolerance. But I would ask, if possible, that we keep the time. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill which basically concerns our fellow people with visual problems and you will allow me to have a particular sensitivity on it, because I have grown up with a person of the family blind. So you understand that I am deeply touched by this. There is a Community directive on guaranteeing in our country the social right to access the cultural goods of people with problems of reading. This is very important, at last these people must participate equally with all of us in the country's social life, have access to information and education, like everyone else. The Greek Solution, of course, has stressed how important and necessary equal and free access to publications is, but also to the technology of people with any form of disability. I think it goes without saying that having the opportunity to feel and admire the cultural achievements of our ancestors and, more generally, of human culture is an inalienable right. But is that true for everyone? Let's not hide behind our finger. Unfortunately, that's not true. Of course, I am referring to disabled people, especially those with visual problems which cannot have equal access to protected works. Let us hope that this will change with the incorporation of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. It remains to be seen in practice, because, you know, we as Greek Solution will say the right thing when it is undeniable, but we will not hesitate to say the wrong one where we see it. I would like to point out here something that we must stress: one could say that there are more problems facing disabled people and problems of vision, often living in difficult conditions in cities. Is it so urgent to legislate to remove the exclusion of our fellow citizens with problems of reading? And yet it is. And because it is good to speak with examples through society and not to live in a glass tower, I will bring you here a touching witness, the testimony of a mother who has a blind daughter student. So this mother is forced to process her child’s own texts so that she can turn them into an accessible form, so that the student can study equally with her fellow students. This mother is struggling - and I am giving you her anxiety - whether the bill to be voted will indeed give her daughter access to knowledge, that is to say, whether there will be the funds for her daughter to be able to have this right. This testimony I testify to, because we need to find a golden incision between what we mean free education and the fair remuneration, which, after all, is entitled to it and each author of spiritual work for his trouble and every publisher. Mother's agony concerns whether the fair remuneration will be borne by the family budgets of these people or the educational institutions and bodies providing these spiritual works with educational and educational purposes. What I have just mentioned is very characteristic of an ambiguity that exists in their own beneficiaries and their familiars about what restrictions are on the conversion of spiritual works in such a way that they fully incorporate people with visual problems in the educational process. We, as Members of the Greek Parliament and as representatives of the people, must convey these questions and concerns. I would like to believe that I also put a little bit of a little bit of a thought to myself, let alone, since I have a personal experience and sensitivity to the subject, as I told you at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u59	And I thank you, my colleague, for keeping the time. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution. To prepare Mr Pascalides from New Democracy and close with his colleague. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this directive of the European Union, which is being incorporated before today's plenary, introduces exceptions for the benefit of imaginary critics who we believe should fully safeguard the intellectual creator. Law 2121/1993, as early as his first article, stipulates that 'intellectual creators through the creation of the project shall acquire on it intellectual property which includes as exclusive and absolute rights the right to exploit the project, the right to property and the right to protect their personal ties to it, moral right'. Intellectual property law, consisting of a system of legal arrangements aimed at balancing interests between creators, businesses and the exploitation and exploitation of works, as well as the financing of creative activity, has as its main objective the participation of the creator in the exploitation of his work, when it becomes accessible to ever wider recipients. That is why it is extremely important and the protection of authors from piracy piracy phenomena. These are phenomena of infringement of intellectual property rights, i.e. illegal use of works protected by the copyright law in such a way that it violates the exclusive rights of the author. I am very pleased to say that in relation to the copy of an accessible format referred to in Article 3(1)(c), we consider that the protection of these works and its creators is not absolutely guaranteed. The variability that characterizes our time has a significant effect on the increase in this risk. Measures to combat piracy are required to be targeted and not to leave the slightest margin of invasion to the authority of integrity of the author in the projects under discussion. Thus, when the designation of the competent body in the same Article is made in case (d) which is analysed in ‘any body, association, association or other body’, it does not need to be a member of a legislative committee to understand the extent of the vagueness involved in generalizing to other bodies. No one knows who these other bodies will be providing training to the beneficiaries. There should be no such ambiguities when it is more necessary than ever to be fully covered and to be fully interpreted by such definitions so that there is no room for misinterpretation. Creators' assurance is at stake, because they are protected and our culture and our economy are guaranteed at the same time. Needless to stress that the contribution of important projects to cultural development has a very important economic significance over time. The variability that characterizes our time has a significant effect on the increase in this risk. In particular, as far as intellectual property is concerned, we should be able to prevent rapid developments. The risks posed by the infringement of this right are becoming more and more pronounced as a result of the constant changes in technology. We believe that the vague wording of Article 6(b) to take appropriate measures to prevent unauthorised reproduction should, of course, define what the necessary measures are or at least give the guidelines for their proper choice. In addition, additional incentives are provided for creation by way of safeguarding. In the context of the principles of fair and equitable access to intellectual property projects, people with disabilities should not be allowed to be marginalised and socially excluded. Especially for students who have problems with sighting, who have a titanic struggle to respond to their studies, the time has long elapsed in order to help them energetically from the Greek state and to participate fully, fully and equally in the educational process. To move in a fragmentary way in this direction, unfortunately, does not necessitate the absence of state care for this purpose to date. People with disabilities have exactly the same rights as any citizen of the country. They have an absolute right to education, productive employment, professional rehabilitation and to all social activities. But in a state which, over time, is indifferent, the position of our fellow citizens with functional disabilities is deteriorating. The examples are many and stem from the difficult everyday life of these people. In the Greek Solution we believe that a modern welfare state must protect, respect and promote the rights of all its citizens, without any discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the formal disability as a term refers to people who have difficulty reading a paper without assistance. This may be due to a physical disability that does not allow a person to keep a book because of a perceptive or learning difficulty such as dyslexia, blindness, visual disability. It is a very serious situation that practically prohibits all individuals from being given equal access to information and knowledge. It is noteworthy that it includes about 10% of each country's population. The problems of the imaginary dissidents may not concern public opinion, but thousands of people in Greece are excluded from something as simple as reading from a novel to the academic book to which they will be examined at the end of the six months as students. It is characteristic that only 7% of centralised production in the developed world is accessible. The remaining 93% never reaches imaginary disabled people. For all the above reasons, this bill is essential because it incorporates the harmonisation of Greek with European legislation on universal accessibility for people with visual problems, as guaranteed by the UN Convention and the Marrakesh Treaty. In particular, this Legislation incorporates Directive 1564/2017 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, ampoule and persons with other problems in the reading of literature, replacing the current Article 28 of Law 2121/1993 ‘Reproduction for the benefit of blind and deaf persons’. It is recalled that this legislative intervention was expected, given that the deadline for transposition of that Directive has expired on 11 October 2018 and the European Commission recently activated the sanction mechanism for non-compliance with the Member States - including Greece - which did not transpose Directive 2017/1564 in time. In particular, Articles 1-3 define the scope of the draft law to be adopted and set out the definitions necessary to understand the arrangements in question. In this respect, it should be stressed that ‘competent body’, as referred to in Article 2 of the draft law, means the body authorised and recognised by the Member State to provide education, training or access to information on a non-profit basis, and may even be a public or non-profit body providing such services to beneficiaries, such as libraries. However, it is noted that the competent body cannot be a natural person. Article 4 of this Legislative Decree provides for the possibility not only of competent bodies but also of beneficiaries or persons acting on behalf of beneficiaries, without the authorisation of the project creator and without payment, to carry out any operation necessary to enable them to produce a copy of an accessible format project intended for exclusive use by themselves. In addition, with Article 6(7), which is an innovative arrangement in relation to the draft proposed by the previous government, the obligation is introduced for issuers to provide to the competent authorities records of projects in digital form rather than in another difficult to process. In the event of a breach of that obligation, the provision of Article 946 of the Code of Civil Procedure which provides for the convicted issuer to be sentenced to a financial penalty shall apply. Furthermore, Article 7 states that although authors-issuers do not receive the same remuneration, they will receive the same compensation for the purposes of the provisions of this draft law on the use of primary, secondary and higher-education training as those obtained for the use of the same type of writings, i.e. non-beneficiaries will be compensated on the basis of what is applicable to the educational writings which are not intended for imprints. For the other works of the speech, it was found under the spirit of the constitutional principle of the social state and of the protection of HEIs that the loss of issuers would be non-essential, thus not providing for a system of compensation. The eighth article provides that a project may be reproduced, presented and made available to the public without the authorisation of the beneficiary and without payment for the benefit of deaf persons, where such uses are directly linked to their disability and are not of a commercial character to the extent required by that disability. This draft law, which includes deaf ones among the beneficiaries, a provision that had not been provided at all and unjustified by the previous political leadership. To sum up, I would like to stress that this bill is a real opportunity for a substantial change in access to people with problems of reading - and not only - knowledge, culture, information, books and printed material, and it is our duty to support such bills and initiatives, leaving behind micro-participatory purposes and ideas. We are all here with a view to improving Greek citizens and especially SMEs. Let us prove this with the approval of this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The list of speakers has been completed. They have asked that the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, ladies of Papakostas - Palioura and Christidou, be seconded. I will give you three minutes, but I will be very strict, because we have already gone far beyond time. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly on two issues. First of all, I would like to say that as a new Member and as rapporteur for the first time in this bill, I cannot help expressing my surprise at the fact that I felt too many times that we were out of the question. Madam President, I think that if you were President in a court, some of us would have interrupted them too many times as out of the question, or if this bill was a matter of all-Greek exams, I still think that many writings would have been zeroed or had been judged out of the question. Some colleagues have spoken - and I respect everyone and everyone separately - about social sensitivity. I, too, agree with the view of the chosen colleague, Mr Lebanese, that social sensitivity is not the prerogative of certain political forces and, above all, party formations of counter-population. Social sensitivity has to do with each of us separately. And of course we in the New Democracy as a government, but also myself as a Member of the New Democracy, consider it to be reproach. I really think it is disgraceful that we have today only a thousand five hundred writings, such as those of this type of disabled people, namely those who have a problem with vision, the blunt and, more generally, people with vision, and that we, today, should not give them the possibility or reaction to this issue, because some - we have heard the argument - are being cut off for the interests of publishers. If we were to come and say that we wanted to set a reward for publishers, so that there could be greater access, some would blame us for defending the capital. On the other hand, we are clearly coming today and say that everything can no longer have reference to this state, not all can begin and end in the state. Because the state is all us and we can't pay it all. For me it is very important that bodies came and said their views in committee and by publishers were not heard and no question of remuneration was raised. It's really worth wondering how SYRIZA raised this issue. All protections must be taken into account, of course, so that the authors can obtain absolute protection on this matter. I am sure the Minister responsible will do that. I close by saying that we seriously and responsibly - and I said so in my report - are the first steps that we are taking today and we are sure that there will be much more to follow. We never said that with this bill we would solve all the problems of such a sensitive social group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u65	Thank you too, my colleague. I would like you to allow me, however, to make a small point, despite the fact that I am not allowed to comment on what the rapporteurs say below. Do not forget that in this Chamber there is no Member who has gone up to this step and has not come out of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u66	I'm sure you will, Madam President. It was obviously not reproaching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u67	Mrs Christidou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. I guess my dear colleague didn't notice my suggestion very well. But, because I'm a good man, I'll start with the positive ones. In Article 6 we are positive and we state that we shall vote on it. Honestly through our hearts we welcome the fact that the Minister accepted this addition which we, but also the beneficiaries, had requested. We therefore declare that we are now positive in Article 6. Although the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is missing, I would like to comment on the fact that he has been mentioned several times to the SYRIZA rapporteur. I really don't understand. We know very well that SYRIZA lost the election. We are a Qualified Opposition, but this does not give the right to the New Democracy and the Government and to the Members of the New Democracy to demand that we do not even express our emphatic opposition to policies, actions, your actions, the way you choose to be placed. Our disagreement is political, it is obvious and we must express it. That's democracy. So, is it not suddenly allowed to SYRIZA, because it is a deserved opposition, to express his opposition to the way the Government of New Democracy chooses to legislate, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis in a country that is currently suffering for your days? Why are you provoking us? Honestly, I don't understand why you're causing us. We had told the committee that the rights - and how much more so the rights of people with disabilities, of our vulnerable fellow citizens - are not a field of close party confrontation. We had asked for a consensus. But another consensus and another not being able to raise issues in which we believe there is huge political disagreement and to be apologising for that. This tactic, that is, of the New Democracy, to oppose SYRIZA as a government sincerely brings me astonishment. For the Fund, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are very concerned and concerned about the role that the liquidator will play in the Fund documents you have chosen, given that it belongs to the same party and that it was on the same lists as those accused in the Fund's scandals, which we - yes - and the whole society is called'sinner'. What do you call it? Why are you provoking us and why are you stumbling us? You put your political friends everywhere. SYRIZA has launched open competitions for the positions of artistic directors in both the National and Lykian. You canceled them and appointed your chosen friends. You replaced the archbishop in the Acropolis with an elected representative of the AACC, Mrs Filipe. You caratotized the archaeologist who disagreed with you about the antiquities in the metro of Thessaloniki. You appointed four general secretaries of the government to the IT, that is, you didn't even put one archaeologist. At the Greek Film Center you put a Secretary General who works at the Greek Film Archive. What should I start? The list is too big. I said good things in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u69	You have ten seconds to complete, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u70	So very briefly, in Articles 4, 7, 8 and 10, we are voting 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u72	Excuse me, but the process is out of hand. It has escaped at a level that the President is certainly not responsible for, but because the majority rapporteur has a little confused the implementation with legislative power. You were able to say that you thank the Minister for the presentation of the bill from a step-by-step. It's not an assignment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u73	No way. Trust me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u74	You said it from the Step of the House. My colleague from the Qualified Opposition has a list of names. It was turned into a personal one-man-man-made issue which concerns a European directive, its incorporation, and in particular one of the most generally accepted - you say it yourself - sensitive parts of the population for which a micro-political issue could put many questions about governments until now, at least since post-policy. In order not to start to wonder what the European directives on blind refugees and immigrants are and whether there are corresponding directives on other things. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] It has been expelled and it is right that the President who said before that we are getting away from here. Excuse me, we are 18: 00 and we have discussed infinite things today which were not more detailed analyses and overall positions. I'm not criticising anyone, just one, and that's why I got the floor. I can no longer hear that there is no monopolistic politics, no ideological sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u75	But there isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u76	One-sale sensitivity, you when you say ideological, mean party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u77	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u78	Ideological susceptibility exists abyss, especially in human affairs, such as blind people, such as people with disabilities, the least privileged. I spoke to you from the Step and I told you about class differences. If there is no ideological abyss between capitalism that looks at profits and socialism that looks at people on their behalf and not on their behalf, lessons by generalizing the Left and turning to us, if you think we will make the referee between the two, you are laughed. Congratulations on getting a suggestion that allows you to show that you are recognized sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u79	Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate in committee, we have clearly put our positions on the draft bill in plenary. It goes without saying that we are on the side of our fellow humans who really need us, on the side of the disabled, both the blind and the deaf. We naturally support any regulation that facilitates their everyday lives and their lives. In Article 6, Minister, with regard to the delivery of digital works by issuers, we have already pointed out that the need for recourse to justice in the event of the issuers being denied would overly burden the competent bodies, but also those who benefit from the conversion. That is why we have proposed the introduction of an administrative procedure that you have accepted, and we have gladly heard it. I have heard you, Minister, say that these disputes will be dealt with under the procedure of interim measures. This regulation is in agreement with us because it is in the positive direction. Furthermore, as has been pointed out earlier, it should be ensured that projects are in any event prevented from being handled illegally. That is why there should be a specific framework that bodies follow, such as standards and guidelines issued by the National Library. They should be followed, as is set out in the explanatory statement you have tabled, and not simply for the competent bodies to be able to follow. In conclusion, Minister, what should be of concern to us all is the effectiveness of the new institutional framework. This is the most basic, whether or not it is effective. And, of course, it is important that the problems of people with disabilities, either blind, deaf, or deaf. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go before we can say that both the blind and the deaf, but also those who have problems reading papers, have exactly the same access to published works as those who do not have any disability. We should all work in this direction and eliminate any obstacles that exist today. In expecting you to tell us how the new system laid down in the European directive will actually work, we will also reach agreement in the articles. In fact, I will say that we must not forget that the institutional framework for the conversion of the existing projects was inefficient and this should be eliminated. We are therefore saying 'yes' and in terms of the articles as a whole, because our proposals have also been accepted, as have the proposals of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u83	Mrs. Papacosta, I saw you. Wait a minute, please. None of what Mrs. Canelley said is personal. Saying that there is a great ideological difference is an appreciation of her and her party, and there can be no objection to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u84	Not for that, Mr President. Because it was reproached for distinguishing powers. Let me remind Mrs. Canelley that as a lawman...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u85	You don't sound, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u86	But we can't open a debate on the separation of powers. We're not going to do new year's law school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u87	Of course we won't take lessons, but it's really insulting to address a Member...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u88	If you keep this up, I'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u89	It's not right. Because he's gonna answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u90	He said my name, and I'm obliged to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u91	The reason for a minute, please. For a word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u92	Yes, but Mrs. Canelley will take the floor. I don't want to put pressure on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u94	To invoke a rapporteur as being a classic and exclusive issue of social sensitivity, that personally goes beyond me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u95	Please. I said earlier that Mrs Canelle in her speech rightly said what she said. He didn't touch anyone. It was a political position. He didn't say anything else. Let's turn it off. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u96	First of all, I would like to say that obviously any disagreements and, in particular, political disagreements are acceptable. Data falsifications are not acceptable. Let me inform you that the Central Archaeological Council is five law archaeologists and they are at least three other figures. Therefore, they are eight archaeologists and no one, as mentioned. Since there has been talk again about the clearer of the Solidarity Fund, I would like to say that the clearer has not been clearly selected. There was a contract notice, there was an invitation and whoever wanted to run, and according to the qualifications would have been the decision of who the liquidator would be. The ones who put up the candidacy were evaluated. If others wanted to run, they could also do it. With regard to the notices you said you had announced, you had made public, for the positions of artistic directors, to remind you that they were essentially irregular, not to say illegal, because they were not legally authorised. They were also photographic. And this has been denounced by cultural institutions. Finally, you have previously offended the members of the Central Archaeological Board, who are all scientists of recognised prestige. You insulted Dimitris Lignade and George Koumentakis, as party actors, two people who have clearly given examples of writing and curriculum vitae about who they are and how they do their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, blunt and individuals with other problems of reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society’. We are entering the vote on the principle of principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately, by electronic vote. I do not see any Member disagree with his party's political proposal, so the rapporteurs will be the ones to vote. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, ten articles, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u98	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u99	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u100	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under intellectual property rights and related rights for the benefit of the blind, blunt and persons with other problems of reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle of articles and by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u102	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a letter from the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, he informs the House of the following: Here we are informing you of the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny of Monday 24 February 2020 that the timely questions to be debated are as follows: The Question No 521/17-2-20 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis Theocharis. The number 510/14-2-2020, the number 525/18-2-2020, the number 526/18-2-2020 and the item number 531/18-2-201820, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Sophia Zacharakis. We enter the debate of the first under No 521/17-2-2020 topical question of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Greek Tourism Organisation (E.O.T.) is driven into a shrinkage.’; Mrs Notopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, Minister. I would like to thank you in advance, because today I hope that you will give a clear answer on how you are visionating the role that the EOT will play in your service. I say this because you understand the well-being we have, since the deceived and formerly ill-spoken EOT, of the government of SYRIZA recovered, supported, returned the people who were in availability, relied on very hard budgetary conditions and played the dominant role in defining the promotion of tourism in our country abroad. We note, with a simple reading, but also with a more serious and careful reading of the EOT budget, a reduction in these funds. This is, of course, something that we had already pointed out since the statement and the vote of the Ministry's budget, since you had reduced the regular budget and increased by 10 million from the co-financed FPI the Ministry of Tourism budget. So we appreciated that, by reducing the amount of the regular budget, you are undoubtedly reducing the EOT budget and, above all, that the EUR 10 million increase in the co-financed expenditure of the EIT is not necessarily intended for the actions of the EOT - indeed, it is very much to do with the actions planned by the European Union - given that the regular budget, if you wish, also ensures or demonstrates the care of the State for Greek tourism. Compared with the two budgets of 19 and 20 we can see a 32% reduction in the total expenditure of the EOT - you have now budgeted it at 19 million, from 28 million last year - and 72% reduction in expenditure on advertising and public relations. It was 4.3 million and it has become 1.2 million euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I note here that while you are a ready-to-date government, you have already needed two revisions of the EOT budget in one and a half months, if I am not mistaken, 40,000 and 1,080,000 euros. I would also like to note something that concerns us very much. We have seen that the expenditure in the code for public relations is only 16 000, and last year it was 1.5 million euros. We note, of course, an increase of 10% in the promotion and promotion of the Public Investment Programme. But that makes us worry, because it does not seem to balance the deficit to which I referred earlier. What we would also like you to see is a reduction in payroll by EUR 2.2 million, even when you have borne the budget with Mrs Gereku's unpaid position. In relation to the operation of the EOT offices abroad, the information we have from publications, as well as from the presence and action of the EOT offices abroad, is that at the moment it is wasteful, as the offices cannot cover fixed abstract costs of everyday life, let alone plan long-term actions. In order not to get far, I would like, Minister, to clarify your position on the action and operation of the EOT, that is to say whether the sovereign body will remain to determine the promotion and promotion of tourism in the foreign country or whether this reduction in the budget means weakening the EOT, as we fear and believe. Also, to report to us, as is written in writing, on the contracts you have already concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u105	Mrs. Notopoulou, in your dentistry the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u106	I shall conclude, Mr President. Twenty seconds. You have said that for the first time you are starting the view from 15 January. But you must tell us: with what material and what credit you are doing this and a reference to the means. Well, I'm asking these questions. Tell us your intention to operate the eight regional offices, as they have not started yet, even though they are included in the presidential decree and the establishment plan. Finally, we would like a reference in particular to the way in which you are going to join the private sector, as for the Commission Council recently set up - which, in principle, we welcome, because we consider it to be a very positive initiative - we have good doubts about its effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule n. 3126/2003: "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force 21-2-2020: Criminal case against the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I really want to thank you, Mrs Notopoulou, first of all for the opportunity to discuss how much SYRIZA and the SYRIZA government have actually supported EOT. You are, in fact, talking about reducing the budget for the ordinary budget to around 10 million. Is she the one you realize where she's coming from? Do you know anything about Law 4512/2018, a bill giving casino owners the reduction of taxation, which normally goes in favour of EOT? You got 30% and you did 20%, you got 20%, - because they're staggering, 30% for the casinos with the smallest toys and the ones with the biggest toys fell to 20% and you do 8% - and you gave them ten points and eight. To the big "casines" you gave 12% higher. All this money you took from the EOT, and indeed, because you knew you would lose the election - because it is not otherwise explained - you have been through a change a few months later, so that will come into effect this year, since 2020. That's how you shot the EOT's legs. So if someone should be here to answer the questions you put quite rightly, they should be the ministers of the SYRIZA of 2018 and the Group should be together, with the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who voted for it first. That is the way you support the EOT, so that the words can be heard in this Chamber any more. We can't say air words anymore. This time has passed. And then, of course, in your question, it seemed that the main issue was not the questions you asked, but this introduction to his budget. That's the main issue. Of course, when you have to manage 10 million, about 30% reduction in the budget, you will do everything you can to manage it and that's what we do to the EOT. We are, of course, trying not to lose a single euro from the process in which we support the country's brand in advertising and in advertising. Indeed, we are transferring a large part that could be transferred and should be in the Public Investment Programme, from public relations - let me say so - to the Public Investment Programme so that we can at least cut off from the cut we have to make from your own heritage, not lose the support and visibility of the country. Of course, the way you support him is this: you referred to your question about the fact that the offices of abroad cannot even do the basic costs, such as cleanliness. And you're right. Do you know why? Have you heard Mr. 4412, the Spirtzi Procurement Act? He introduced the EOT into these procedures, and now there is no possibility, rather than making a contest, for example, cleanliness, for sixteen foreign offices. In other words, we need to find a company that cleans us both in New York and in Beijing and Berlin and in Rome and in London and I don't know where else. As you can see, this is not possible and we are simply going "for the eyes of the world" in barren procedures. So we're already in cooperation with the EOT. We have his proposals on how this should be corrected. Very soon on a next legislative initiative we will really support the EOT, so that we can finally bring in a policy that has a start, a middle and a end. That is why, at the moment, the EOT is forced to do what it does, and yet we are bringing results, because it is not really an exercise on paper whether to start the advertising of 15 January. Indeed, we started it with very important results. Here's the paperwork I'll submit to the Minutes. We already started with Twitter - I am not going to tell you everything, you can see it in the Minutes - with the "BBC", with the "FRANCE24" and "TV5", with the "NEWSWEEK" connection. After January 15, however, already signed contracts with MASTERCARD, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC, New York Times, TRIPADVISOR, FINANCIAL TIMES and WALL STREET and the next time they enter our campaign and GOGLE, EXPEDIA, BLOOMBERG, etc. I'm filing it for the Minutes to see it. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The results are tangible and concrete. I'm only giving you that element. January 2020 air arrivals are plus 5.4%, but in particular foreign arrivals are 11.5% increased, from about a million cent of forty-six last year to one million, seventy-seven thousand this year. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the result of a genuine effort to support an organisation responsible for the tourism promotion of our country. I remind you, to understand,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u109	Shouldn't you remember that later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second question I'm going to answer in my dentistry. I'm just hanging up with this. I would remind you that every year you started the advertising campaign April and March at best, last year, you started it in June. You left the EOT and the campaign of the country not to start for six months, you remembered it even a month before the elections, and now in an attempt to close loose ends, and of course we came to run the commercial footage so that we could close the year with a positive sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Notopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes strictly. I left you both in the first piece to talk a lot of time, twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I can't avoid answering you for EOT because I think you blamed us too unfairly. I would remind you, therefore, that we restored the employees to work in 2016 while they were in availability. I would remind you that we have drawn up a presidential decree and an organogram, which was not there, because your governments over the past few years have made the EOT a "hate". I would also remind you that we have brought a strategy, which you, too, fully embrace, for tourism three hundred and sixty-five days a year, that we have displayed new destinations. You've embedded all this, new propellant material. You have not answered us beyond the eleven or fifteen conventions - how much you have said - with what kind of material that is being promoted. Because I have a feeling by looking at the EOT's site how it is done with the material of the previous government, and indeed how it is used and how it is provided by the means with which you have been involved, and this is not a specific design. I shall now refer to casinos. You really surprised me. I'd expect anyone else to say it, even by SYRIZA, but not you. I say this because, firstly, it would be useful to see what happens and what exists as a framework for casinos in all the other European countries, to answer us for the pro-investment piece. Let me remind you that you have been elected government by saying that you will bring bulldozers to the Greek since the first week. Let me remind you that this scheme was in force both for our own government and for our own budget, and that obviously it was not because of any avengement, on the contrary you left the country with 30 billion debts for 2015, with the funds cleared and broken down. We came out of the memorials and left you with 37.5 billion pounds of pillow so that there are also historically low interest rates, as well as you cut ribbons and as Minister of Tourism for the next two years. Let me remind you that from the tour schools to the flights you launch works by the SYRIZA government are very well done and glad you follow them. Obviously - I do not know whether it has happened consciously, intentionally or in a lack of time - you have not answered us how you intend to deal with, manage the EOT and how you intend, as you have done, with the private sector. Will you maintain the central role of the EOT, the public character in promoting and promoting the country's tourism product or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u114	I will not repeat the same thing I said, because it seems that you have not heard it. You reduced the EOT's revenue by giving gifts to casinos, not to new investments, to existing casinos, to what was there, and you gave them the gift from the EOT's pocket, and you did so that it would apply from 2020 that you knew you would lose in the elections. So I say again you took the money, but not your term of office, but you legislated it for next year. That's the first. Secondly, in order to be clear, we support the EOT in practice. When we power him, when we bring these results that are made through the EOT campaigns, this is what supports the value of the Hellenic Tourism Organization. What you say in your second question brings me to what you said in relation to the new establishment plan. You say 'we supported him with a new organizational chart'. But your lack of strategy towards the EOT is obvious from the following: you have reinstated officials; you have set up an organisational chart setting up eight new internal offices; while the EOT has no internal advertising; it has only advertising to the outside, in order to coordinate the regions and the next year you are reducing its budget by one third, so that it cannot pay them. One year you raise the employees and the next you cut the money so they can't be paid. It is not called a strategy, it is called "what is seen by Los Angeles". That is not a coherent policy. We, therefore, have introduced the Regional Council on Tourism since the very first moment so that in practice and without additional costs the advertising can also be coordinated with the other actions of the regions with the EOT and the Ministry of Tourism. We review the entire establishment plan of the EOT, so that we can actually bring the services of the EOT into modern times, so that we can have a modern, powerful organization that will take over and have, as it has been, the country's tourist projection. And yes, the EOT will be the center of the tourist view. And now a word on this issue you raise in relation to the country's tourist projection and whether we will make use of synergies with the private sector. The 'Oh my Greece', do you know it, an award-winning campaign? Can you tell me if it happened on your day or on our day? Can you tell me if it was implemented by the private sector with its own funds, was the EOT and the EOT with its own money promoted it and was the most successful campaign in recent years? And it happened on SYRIZA. And it was in practice with synergies of the private and public sectors. Why didn't you ask questions, didn't you send any papers to ask questions to be invoked by your Minister, who had the hen of the Ministry of Tourism back then? And in this area where you were spitting, you're licking. At last hypocrisy has to end. What you did as a government will not give up on us because we are going to do and why we really come to do it in such a way that it will bring about real results for the Greek professional tourism, the tourist who comes and ultimately the tourist, who sees all the benefits that are present and tangible in front of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. All the following questions will be answered by Mrs Zacharakis. We begin with our second question under number 510/14-2-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Larisa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening and reopening of the Centre for Environmental Education (CEP) Kissavos – Montenegro as an independent Centre for Environmental Education". Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I have tabled a topical question to your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I really think that you, too, are particularly concerned with how you should plan something from which, unfortunately, the previous government has completely given up something that has a special value, added value in time, since the modern guidelines and things that we are concerned with are certainly related to environmental education centres, because climate change is no longer a crisis, but also the function of education with them is of major importance to the world and the country. In 2011 in the midst of the crisis and perhaps on the occasion of the crisis, we unfortunately had the phenomenon of the merger of many services and sectors. So the ball also took environmental education centres. In this regard, we are talking about a centre of my constituency, my region, the Kissavos Centre, a very dynamic centre for environmental education with a very large volume, with a beach, climbing paths and so on. So this was merged and became Kissavos - Elassona. This environmental education centre is highly creative and dynamic. And in order to clarify our words from the outset, because many times it has been dissatisfied with concern without any reason, we are in favour of the fact that the Elassona Centre and its support are naturally in favour, because payroll is only covered by central resources, while all the rest is supported by the municipality. So you understand that the Elassona Environmental Education Centre also needs support, which is one of the most dynamics in Thessaly. However, in your announcements at the Ministry, the intention of creating a new setting has been mentioned now in the field of environmental education, and that is why we have also tabled our question, because we want you to have us in your mind and in your heart with regard to this structure. The people of Agias, the people of the Municipality of Agias and Kissavos and the beaches, the magnificent beaches of the region, are required to regain the structure that was depraved and removed. We want to know your intentions and I will return to my dentistry by adding two very important parameters to the issue, which I think you should also know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u117	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u118	Mrs Liikanouli, thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to make a little historical regression. I will return to 1990, which was then the government of Constantine Mitsotakis with the Minister of Education Vassilis Kontogiannopoulou, who had already established this institution of the Environmental Education Centres. It is therefore of particular importance, how rather not only because of this historical regression, but also through developments at a time when the issue of climate change is very high in the priorities not only of the global agenda, but also of Mr Mitsotakis himself, as he has repeatedly said. Since 1990, environmental education centres, which have been embraced by students, teachers and teachers, have been developed in an educational institution with very innovative programmes, which many of them have even been awarded. In other words, they have European and international awards. Their role in active contact with students through the natural wealth you have already mentioned and for the area in which you are being elected, in awareness of environmental issues through educational activities and in the culture of responsible environmental balance protection, is irreplaceable and, as I mentioned before, in the face of this great challenge of climate change, the development of environmental awareness for the new generation is more necessary and important than ever. So environmental education centres for us can make this particular and excellent contribution. Now, what is happening this year, I think, started with a very symbolic move, when in the summer, contrary to what Mr Gavroglou had legislated, we kept the environmental education centres, in line with the requirements of the centres themselves and their operation as the world of environmental education required and demanded and I think it was a sign of political will in this regard. Therefore, environmental education, training programmes and training for living or distance learning, educational materials in schools and in the school community in general continue and are being developed. In fact, in order to provide some specific information, the institution is also supported by the operation: "Environmental Education Centres (CICs) - Environmental Education (B' Circle)", starting 1-11-2019 and ending 31-12-2021. We are talking about the resources that can support the programme. For the second cycle, funding under the ESDP amounts to EUR 1 800 000, while for the next two years the available amounts - and that is important - are EUR 4.24 000. In fact, our intention for the new programming period is to extend this amount. So, in fact, with numbers, but also with what I will mention soon, I think we are showing that we are supporting the JPAs and we will continue to support them. There is an important detail I would like to give it to the House today. INEDIBIM, this centre which, anyway, is the vehicle that supports the project and financially, by the decision of 19 December, proceeded directly to the notice of a central project team. It was an important loose end, which was also satisfied and the selection process is expected to be completed in February 2020, that is, by the end of the month. That is how it fully covers the implementation of the operation, beyond covering the operational costs of the RCMs, which is guaranteed anyway, because, as you quite rightly said, the municipalities are very keen on environmental education centres and support them. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u119	Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u120	You told me everything, well you told me, but what I asked you didn't tell me. You're probably keeping it as a surprise to your dentistry, Minister. Sustained. When the news is positive, it's always good news. Look. I have here mentioned a number of documents where you too have seen that we have a very important area. On the one hand, we have a national park and an Olympus and, on the other, we have Kissavos and coastline, and this thing now we are trying to serve, and we cannot. That's the story with simple words. So here you should also see all the things that have been sent to you by the municipal councils. The Municipal Council of Agia has also notified you of the unanimous decision of all the members of the municipal council, which they notified to us. We have already attended all the meetings of the local bodies and have seen that people are really right. In other words, there are currently facilities which have been abandoned. It's a great facility to tell you, because I inspected them with engineering equipment. I mean, it's gonna take very little to do. The municipality is determined to cover all costs. In fact, huge efforts are being made from the EIC already in existence, but here we are talking about eighty miles away that cannot be fatally served by provincial roads. We are all talking about visitors who are interested in visiting the region, about the two thousand people, and of course we are talking about an action area, which can be a pilot programme of training for environmental education, and I am telling you this sincerely. In other words, it can host schools and host small students and great and educators and be a hive, so that knowledge and awareness on environmental issues are further expanded. So here we need to support the already existing Elassona Environmental Education Centre, which covers a huge area. I know you've come to Elassona. I know that you know the area, this wonderful area, as I also know that you know the area of the coasts and mountains of Kissavos and you know among them how far these areas have and how these structures really we need them. Can I tell you something? Take advantage of the opportunity. I urge you, and I do not suggest you, Minister, to take advantage of the opportunity that all entities have unanimous decisions, you have seen them, the municipalities, etc. Nor are the issues paradoxical, nor are we in opposition. We are all trying together here to help and do something extremely good and extremely useful. If your Ministry really believes what we say is always beginning with awareness and education and everything starts from school, then politics will be expressed through actions. It won't be expressed through wishing. Because, you know, the vows are very good when they sound. It's enough in a few years that they don't turn into memorials. And unfortunately, this is how it is done in Greek politics. But you, because I think you see things differently, otherwise you will. I can't wait to hear that you're going to establish this, you're going to make it with our help, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u121	Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u122	I would like to remind you that anyway it was in 2011 that was closed, that was merged, but it was during the period when I understood that we did not do a memorial, but we had a memorandum, which I understand was then leading to the merger. I remind you of who was in the government then. Now, because we have to go further and because you have spoken about actions I think that with the figures I have given at the outset, it is clear that the intention is to support them. But when I come to Parliament every time, I would like to be very specific about what we have before us. And what we have before us is the fifty-three EPAs that are already operating, operating well. I would remind you that in addition to all these important contributions that exist from self-government, from the positive suggestions to work, there is also the manager of the Kissavos-Hellassonas S.A. who is, I would say, sufficiently cautious in the operation of the second SC. He expresses concern about possible problems in his operation. That's what we need to see, and I think we need to look at the whole thing. Because when you break up forces or at that moment and an undertaking, it might also be a question. So what we are saying is to support the existing environmental education centres - I told you with a specific timetable, money, but also planning how to do it - and to see what is more ready in terms of operation. Of course, there are proposals coming from all over Greece and there are many. I'm telling you there are fifty-three already. It is more than nine proposals which we could say are mature so that they can be completed. But every time I come to Parliament, I would like to come with things that are either visible or practicable. So I wish the implementation could go ahead. At the moment, however, we are not in a phase. I can commit it opens immediately. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Things that need to get into the groove are funding, timely staffing, so that we don't open up centres, and then we can't staff them with human resources. You'll come and you'll lie to me right after you guys for a mere promise. So let's get into the new period, I mean, in the light of the new year, to see exactly what our financial framework is, what scope we have for the financial aspect too - because we are going to offer the human resources, you said that, for operational purposes, everyone is willing to do so - and above all what scope this RCF has. I told you that we as a ministry are very positive about listening to proposals, but always to the data we have. So I cannot give you the good news today of the relaunch, but I can tell you that all the proposals that are mature are studied with a positive view from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. We move to the third with number 525/18-2-201820 on the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Deli to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Legal rights of assistant teachers”. Mr. Delia, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are bringing today, Madam Secretary, two issues to the House, both topical and extremely important, for the thousands of assistant teachers. The first issue concerns the submission of their supporting documents for their inclusion in the lists for the classification of the relevant nomination notice 2GI/2019. So you are surely aware of these documents - you are aware of that - the physical presence of assistants is required in the Directorates of Education. But, as you also know, hundreds - not to say thousands - of them are serving on islands that are not a place of training. There is a very great difficulty to move - I would say that this is not only about islands but also about them - since they need several cases from one to three, perhaps more days to move from their island in order to go to the training department of the capital of the prefecture to submit their documents, of course, with the known problems in the communication of the islands, especially in the winter months, - these are now what we are talking about - because of the well-known tactics of the shipowners. But let us not open this issue now. That means, Madam Secretary, that these alternates will be required, Mr President, to obtain a normal leave. You'll tell me what's weird. I do not know how many people know, however, that these assistant teachers when they are given normal leave are deducted from the non-repayable allowance they will receive in July. They should therefore be moved, in addition to tickets, to pay for their wages. The second important issue, which, in our view, is an unacceptable attitude to the government, is how it deals with these substitute teachers in the issue of seasonal influenza. It is well known that the Circular of the Ministry of Health, which through the Ministry of Education, went to schools, which invites students and teachers to remain at home for as long as the fever lasts, even twenty-four hours after his retreat. Let's see how this circular is applied to the assistant teachers. Substitutes affected by seasonal influenza receive - and they receive - sick leave. It is not enough, however, that these assistant teachers are sick, you are now coming and you are punishing them, and your government, like the previous one, of course, because they are the same - with the loss of half the share for the first four days of sick leave, assuming that this is a four-day period. I mean, they get sick and they pay off top and lose their wages. In short, they also have to pay for their sick leave. Look. These are issues which I think need to be resolved. We want to hear something positive. Let us say that we are optimistic that the alternates who are watching us will also listen to something positive. What will your Government do to make it easier for the deputies on these islands, for example, from St. Stratis or Lemnos to go to Mytilini to deposit their papers, as in the Dodecanese and in the Cyclades? There are so many Greek islands. What are you going to do so they won't get completely cut off on account of sick leave? And, of course, all this in the broader context that we insist on putting on the question of the full equalisation of the rights of alternates with the permanent ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High Leros. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Delis, you will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mrs Zacharakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u126	Mr Delis, you raise a topical issue, which has already been raised, because something is being done that will make it easier for substitutes permanently. It is this government which, after too many years, has been making appointments. So I think it is a positive step that we are coming today to respond to issues which, yes, are exist, we have been working with the deputys for many days looking for solutions. But all this has a start. The beginning is that the government decided to appoint four and a half thousand people in special education and ten thousand five hundred teachers in general. So, to inform the public, in the procedure for special treatment notices, we are already in the final stage for the big notice. I imagine that at some point in March there will be an end to the great proclamation of special treatment. For the first time, the decision on permanent appointments of a thousand IMPs and SPD members has been signed for a long time. So, a practical step and proof of the care that exists to cover the people who have been running in all parts of Greece for many years to meet the needs of public education is that we are going to appointments. The same is true in general with a process that has been under way for a long time with primary school and is now running with secondary school. And to see exactly where we are, because the truth is that the interest of young people is very vivid. They are currently flooding secondary education, as was the case with primary school some time ago. In order to facilitate interested parties - because this is a dynamic process - I have to tell you that we have been in a fire dialogue with all the relevant directorates, especially where there are particular problems. I give you one example more than the region you mentioned. The example is from the Regional Directorate of Attica. We have just tried on Monday by all the training directors to take measures that are moving - and please note - and, if necessary, to extend the hours of training for the receipt of supporting documents - that is a decision in any case that has been taken - and a second-year entry so that people can be present and not be wasted too much time during attendance. Also to strengthen the receipt and service departments of interested parties many times and without a closed appointment, because in some addresses an appointment was booked for children to go and declare their preference. The very important thing - and I repeat it today in the Greek Parliament to hear it once again - is that two days have been granted for the receipt of applications by the AACC, because in any case we cannot extend the duration of the receipt of applications. These two days therefore come to be added to the planning of the addresses. You are now talking about the addresses that are far away, and indeed of the island regions, which our teachers really should be allowed to take leave. In contact with the regional director and also with the Cyclades in particular, clear instructions have been given to the relevant directorates from the very first time, reinforced steps of workers with extended working hours. In fact, I have to tell you that some people are still working Saturdays for the receipt of supporting documents. And with regard to the problems that we had actually been mentioned and which we had also been mentioned by Oleomen, I would like to say that the deputys - we had seen them a while ago with the Minister - are normally served and are not overweight. As far as applications are concerned - what has also been done with primary education - I would like to say that they have been submitted properly. And measures are being taken, because there is indeed a greater burden at the moment on admission to secondary school, so that all the alternates are served, but also on all interested parties, and that they can make their applications. So in coordination with the directorates, with the staff of the directorates - which I want today from this Step forward to thank them for the trouble they are making in obtaining applications - I think that all those concerned will be able to state their preferences, and I hope that they will be appointed to public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u128	Madam Minister, you have begun by mentioning once again the appointments that will be made. You know, assignments we've been hearing for years and no assignments are being seen. Over the last few years and by which Minister for Education no appointments have been announced! So far, there has been no one. Let's hope that soon will happen. In any case, the subject of our question was not that. It was very specific. It was about facilitating teachers working on islands with difficulty in communicating with the capitals of their counties. And in that I think you have given no answer. But - if you want - and silence is an answer. You're saying you're not going to change any of this. We think this is an extremely urgent matter. It is the responsibility of the Ministry as a whole and the government must at least see it at the last minute and give immediate solution. And in any case, we're tired in here of hearing about this perfect state, the digital one, the smart one. Let us prove to this state once again that it can stand up to the workers who - as you admit - are running across Greece to work in schools throughout the country. They have proposals - you know - and the federations, but also certain associations, ELME. I'll give you one in the Minutes. I am tabling the relevant decision by ELME LEEMO and Saint Efstratios. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They propose two specific solutions. Or a step by the Department of Secondary Education to go to these islands and receive these requests from teachers or, in any case, a special service permit on the occasion of the submission of these alternates' documents, so as not to cut down that allowance - as we have said - when they are made redundant at the end of June. And you know it's important, Mrs. Zacharakis, for these teachers this 400 euro. They are important because they will pass all July because they do not receive the unemployment benefit in that month, those who are entitled to it anyway. Why would they lose that money? They gave you these two alternatives. Not one or the other! On the other hand, we must not open up the issue of licences. I have said so, in my prototype, in relation to the rights of alternates and their equation with the rights of officials. And you, of course, know very well that the authorisations they have, for example, of pregnancy and child rearing are not the same as those of the permanent ones. After many struggles, they managed to extend their breeding permit to three and a half months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, alternate educational cancer patients are resigned, Minister, because only 15 days of sick leave are allowed. Of course, they won another 15 days, but it is clear that this is not enough. We had the case before last year as an assistant instructor with threatened pregnancy eventually resign. It is these monstrous tricks that the deputies are suffering all over the country. It is forbidden, you know, to a child of an alternate or family of unpaid persons to become ill, since these workers are not entitled to a child's leave, such as other workers. That's what we're talking about. In order not to open up the issue of the system of appointments now. Appointments when and whenever they are - amenities and when! - will be done with the infamous Gavroglou system, which I think literally gave a kick, flew into the trash for many years before the service of thousands of educational substitutes, reaped the degree, and introduced commercialised appointing criteria and combined with your recent government regulation for colleges, all this made it even more toxic and anti-educational, more anti-educational for teachers. And, of course, because we are talking about alternates, I think that there are more requests for them. At some point your government must also bend over them and see issues relating to their shelter, their feeding, their movements. Eight hundred euros are taken by people and you understand how difficult this is, especially for those who work in tourist areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. Mrs Zacharakis has the floor for three minutes for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Delis, I would remind you of the ministerial appointing decision - I note because I know you are always present - on 21-2 which, for the first time, for the first time, provides for a thousand forty appointments. And it is important to say that, because you said that, and we say so here in the Greek Parliament, it is happening. It's also a distinction - if you like - from the past. It is a distinction from a previous government, which said it would appoint thirty thousand a year, twenty-five thousand a year, and we finally went back to zero. Here, then, there is - I repeat - a distinction from the past. The forty thousand are a sign that we are doing what we say, far from the riskists who said we will not proceed with appointments. And that is what I think we should put forward every time. In fact, 15 days are the subordinates' permits. Seven days is the normal pay leave. Why? Because they are subject to labour legislation, because they are not permanent teachers. Should we discuss an improvement in the conditions of the replacement contract? It would be something that is contrary to labour law. Let us see, however, issues relating to both food and housing and transport. What did we do this year? What we did was contact the Ministry of Shipping and give them a very significant discount of 50% on all the children who took all the means. We went further this year. We have reached agreement with the Ministry of Transport and apart from the ship it is the train and the CBELs, so that they have a very significant reduction. You will tell me: 'It solves the question of the amount that each deputy needs, this sum of EUR 800?'. The answer is 'no'. It's a small support sample. A large sample of support is the agreement with the CEDEFOP and many municipalities, especially in the municipalities of island regions where children have a huge issue, so that they can find a rent that they can afford. You know very well that there is a municipality of a popular island that has already resolved the part of the residence of the deputys. The same thing has happened on another island that was also difficult. Recently, there have also been incidents about the inability to find accommodation. It cannot all be done immediately and one cannot come and say that there is a magic wand that will solve the economic issue of a country that has been afflicted for many years. However, with small steps, with appointments, with coordination with the co-legislative ministries, but also with a debate to strengthen alternates, I think that we can reach a point where, after a reasonable period of time, many of these people have been appointed, who - I repeat, I thank them here - have supported and supported public education all these years. So they'll find an arrow in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. The fourth question will then be discussed with number 531/18-2-201820 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "No provision in the system of appointments of MEDIs". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, this is very important. It concerns our fellow citizens who are currently in a very difficult position, because for the first time with the new law, Law 4589/2019, they are not actually in the system of appointments via ASP. What is envisaged is, for example, for an educationer with 50% disability to bring together only twenty molecules. What does that mean, practically? We have people suffering from multiple sclerosis or Mediterranean anemia. These people must be given various forms of medical support very often, once a month or more. These people cannot be far from towns that have hospitals that can provide them with these services. It's a matter of survival. It's not a question of choice. So when these people are not promoted and simply take some molecules - and even so few molecules - they happen to be hired via ASP. The same story, as Mr Karavas informed me, arises for alternates. These people happen to go to cities that do not have the necessary infrastructure to support their health. It's purely human and simple. The result is that they need to deny such positions several times, so that they are excluded from any future appointment, either a substitute or a permanent teacher. It's a matter of pure injustice. I think it's an apology. I hope it's just an apology. I want your commitment that it will be corrected now, immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much Mr Arsenis. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Here, Mrs Zacharakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u134	Mr Arseni, you know that the law that currently governs recruitment and the appointment of alternates is Mr 4589/2019. It's a law of the previous government. Appointments have been made in special lawsuits. As you know, appointments go on in general. Of these, in fact, the recruitment of the deputy will also be done by this law. We have chosen to continue this so that we do not have delays so that we can meet the needs of the school units. Obviously, within the law as an official opposition we had hampered the injustices and mistakes that existed. As for the part of moleculosis, of course, I would like to mention what is true: the moleculosis of HEIs and the status quo - I mean the law that we are currently using for appointments and recruitments - starts from 50% of the disability and above - and so far 67% and over have benefited from some - and any disability of a spouse, beyond the disability of a child, has also been included. Also - and I would like you to note this - on the final position of the neo-definitionists, in accordance with Article 62 of Law 4589, which has been updated, recently amended by Law 4653/2020, these appointments, as I have told you, will be made under the criteria set out in No 50/1996. These locations require specific categories of patients from specific diseases, such as Mediterranean anemia - requiring blood transfusions -, leukaemia, haemophilia, chronic renal insufficiency at dialysis stage, AIDS, sclerosis by tetraplagic or paraplegic plaque, metastatic cancer, Crohn’ s disease. In relation to your question, there will be a 75% or more disability rate, regardless of illness. There is therefore a programme for the most severely disabled teachers, just as the law is. I know what the feds are asking for. We've been in touch, anyway, since the beginning of our presence at that ministry. After all, all this is in line with both the UN Convention and the public sector with that of 15%. On the occasion of the presence and the question of this question - in the first part of which I believe I have answered - I would like to show you today with concrete figures the Minister's practical interest in the issues of people with disabilities. In addition to the appointments we have referred to, in any case, by proposing special treatment - and I think it is important - I would like to say that a competent part of special education and training, the responsibility of which is the training of people with disabilities, has taken place during the last seven months in a hundred and thirteen total actions and actions, of which only thirty-eight is from the past month. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I will continue later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u135	As you wish. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u137	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u138	Madam Secretary, you said you were critical when the SYRIZA government brought this bill. And yet, as a government today, you have brought numerous amendments to infinite bills, changing whatever theme you considered to be a priority, whether this is for the Greek, which we have constantly amended, or for something else. If this matter is important to you, then, you have an amendment to correct it. I shall also refer to statements by Mr Michalakis in his 'THE PAYMENTS'. He is the Secretary-General of the "Greek Society for Sclerosis against Plaka". Not only does the programme of teachers be abolished with multiple sclerosis and Mediterranean anemia, but the molecules given are minimal, and there is no statutory provision for a specific percentage of recruitment, as is done in all the ADP notices. This makes the submission of applications to the limits of illegality. It shows, however, the analgesia and the lack of a scientific approach on the part of the State as regards disabled people. On the same subject, Mr Vardakis has contacted through the vouliwatch.gr that coordinates this self-organised group, the "Assembly of LEAs". This is something you need to look at and correct, in terms of extending the rates of disability to a greater extent and to 50%. Look, the complaints are that the citizens - and I have told you the names of the bodies representing these people - can be involved in competitions because, if they refuse, because they have been appointed in a position which cannot serve their needs, whether in terms of Mediterranean anemia or multiple sclerosis, they are excluded for each ALP contest for the next three years. The same applies in practice, as we know, to substitutes. So I really want you to try to solve the issue in cooperation with the institutions of disabled people, and in particular two sectors, those with Mediterranean anemia, but also with multiple sclerosis. Although you really agree, as you said, you can do it. It must be done because at the moment we are ruining lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u140	Mr Arseni, I made a distinction at the outset, saying that this law, n.4589, has been severely criticised by us as an official opposition. I made the distinction, but speaking of extending the percentage, which I mentioned at the outset. I repeat - to remain in the Minutes - that the care to mobilise disabled and disabled schoolchildren is important, and until now the rate was 67%. I repeat that in the recent amendment on the placement of neodiators there is the proposal of the special categories of suffering from severe illnesses, including those with a high disability rate. I would also like to make a general comment, because you have also made the last move to reach agreement with the specialists. There has been an active dialogue in recent months with all the associations, so that we can see what points we can improve in practice - and I have repeated this word three times today in Parliament - but also with our care for special education and our support for children, with the same support as the school nurse, with the special assistant, with the appointments, with the school membership departments, with the completion of procedures and full coverage of needs in special education schools. With all these hundreds of thirteen actions that I have said, the corresponding section together with the necessary, as you mentioned, synergy with the institutions will reach a point where people with disabilities in Greece will have the exact place they deserve. With regard to this issue over the three years, the distinction that has taken place some time ago, I think we can discuss the issue of alternates. We are positive about discussing this and it is something that we can present after a while. But these are the data so far and I can commit, in other words, to what we have so far, by extending the rate, but also to the pro gramme of the Vice-Presidents in the positions with serious illnesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next question, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of Greeks, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Nea Peramos Kavalas with the dunes and the vineyards! The House welcomes you guys, and wishes you good progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now we move to the first under number 526/18-2-2020 in the second cycle of the MP Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Cathedios to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Annulment of injustice, maintenance of the interconnection of the Marasleio Municipal School with the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Plaka". Mrs. Kefalidou, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, we are talking today about experimental schools, namely the brutal injustice committed against students, not only Marasleios, but also the experimental schools of the University of Patras. It is important, then, that you give some answers to both the students, parents and teachers who follow and fight for the future of their children, because September really is very close and do not know what programme they will have, where they will be. I'm going to make a very brief historical report, because all these schools are not something we've discovered now. There is a Royal Decree of 1929 setting up experimental schools, but in fact in 2011 standards and experimental schools are established in PASOK and in the Minister of Anna Diamantopoulou, a total of two hundred forty across the country. We come to this: Maraslios today has three hundred and fifty students and until now it has been interconnected with the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Plaka. The Experimental Municipalities of Patras have two hundred fifty five students and are interconnected with the Experimental Gymnasium of the University of Patras. And suddenly in May 2019, with the famous multi-brand education plan, Mr.Gavroglou's Law 4610/2019, the interconnection of these only two experimental schools is interrupted, and this is without any justification and without any scientific documentation. It is noteworthy that this exemption applies to these only two schools, because the remaining links of experimental municipality are normally made, as they were before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to remind you that there was a great deal of interest on the part of the Members of the New Democracy. In particular, the current Minister, Mrs Kerameos, asked a question on 27 February 2019 about what will happen with the standards and experimental schools and amendments of twenty-one Members of the New Democracy in May 2015, which is discussed by the bill, in which it is not much more or less stated that the ultimate purpose of the amendment is to ensure the children of Marasleio in order to have a suitable school, to continue their academic course without disseminating in many schools, but also to allow the 1st Experimental Gymnasium and the Experimental Municipal Marasle to develop parallel teaching approaches to various cognitive objects by doing their best in this way. At some point I'll testify to these in the Minutes. I simply say that no one needs to argue about the purpose of experimental schools, how important their role is to the rest of our knowledge where we are trying to spread to other schools. And this feedback so that it can make sense to have a continuity, not to interrupt, that is, children's course only in elementary school, but to continue in other grades, high school and high school. It also makes sense to mention that this choice has a very great burden on the family, because they change programmes, change housing places and even work activity, so that parents and the family can support this choice. And so I think that today you have the opportunity, Madam Secretary, to explain first of all what is the complete plan that your Government has for the prospect of pilot and experimental schools and actually to explain to us what is going to happen with these children, with those students who are in all grades of primary school, both Maraslios and the Experimental Municipal Fathers, after what the Gabroglou Act has created, namely, the abolition of self-evident interconnection. I think this is a great injustice and I expect to hear how your government will deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. And in this timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Here, Mrs Zacharakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u144	You know well that all this time, as well as during the period when the New Democracy was a strong opposition, the relevant Sector and now Minister of Education Mr. Kerameos had declared the entire targeting of the New Democracy if, with good reason, the Greek people voted in favour of this political choice. It was chosen with increased political legitimacy, with a programme that takes a step - it makes it a reality. I am saying this in order to link the reason why we are here today with this part, if you want, of self-just support - in our own minds, at least, and I know that you too are very supportive of the standards and experimental schools - in which it has been a school and of effort. However, for me, it is particularly of equal opportunities for all children who can go to a school that either experimentally will be given the opportunity to test new methods - that is when there is continuity - or in the patterns where effort, effort and excellence are concerned, a word which had already been formulated by the previous political leadership, but also in general by the SYRIZA Government and I think we can bring it back as an equivalent word of effort and achievement of objectives. So as a opposition, we have supported all this methodical political deterioration of these schools. You will see very soon, within a reasonable period of time, I would say that the full programme of the New Democracy for the standards and experimental schools that we are supporting. Our aim is to have a model and an experimental school at the headquarters of each regional unit. What have we done this year to prove our support for these schools? We've been organizing all PSURs first. People are currently volunteering their time and energy to these councils to help each school, so that they can make their teams, make their programs and give the children who have chosen these schools the special features that have made them choose. At the same time we are working on the new legislative framework, which, as I said before, will once again give this particular scientific value and pedagogical value to these schools of different levels. Since all this targeting and the necessary extraction of conclusions and evaluation of teaching methods cannot have the element of interruption, this part of the interconnection is important. I have to say to you that we are positively involved in the interconnectivity, and I think that answers to the essence of the question, the continuation of the interconnection in Maraslios, where it has already been interrupted. I must also say to you that because we are currently unfolding the training of our programme on standards and experimental schools, I must give you an answer on the whole interconnection of all schools, but I must tell you that the direction we give is positive in terms of maintaining the interconnection. I think that is how I respond to the essence of your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, I am very pleased with the answer I get today, because it really is not just the children of the F grade who have been in hostage since this discontinuance of the legislature. I understand that Article 80 of Law 4610/2019 creates two speeds. It was the elementary experimental schools that had continued both in high school and these two schools were suddenly found anywhere without an integrated proposal for what is going on. Only one year had been guaranteed, i.e. the next year for children who were then in the F grade. Because I understand that at some point there will be an end to the draw in the experimental schools and we will move on to another regime, the process we are talking about, that is, self-just interconnection, is about the children who are at the moment from the first grade to the fourth grade, that is, the cycle of children who, when introduced into the experimental schools, knew that the prospect is to continue in an experimental high school without a draw, self-righteous. I want you to answer that. You want to answer that now, so I can go on? I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u147	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u148	In experimental schools we always talk about a draw and it remains this part for all classes. In standard schools, we're talking about exams.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u149	You are simply answering me now that it concerns all the children who are at the moment, namely 2019, who were exempt from these two experimental schools, who were normally in Maraslios and in the experimental schools of Patras. It's all about children, all classes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u150	Madam Colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u151	Keep going, Mrs. Kefalidou. We won't have a dialogue. In the end, the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u152	It's my main question. He'll answer for me to keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u153	Yeah, but that's not the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u154	From my time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u155	With the information we have today, anyway, I told you that it is currently evolving and the bill is being completed. What we are looking at is the continuation of the interconnection. All clarifications will be given for all years and how many classes it will be. However, it is important and I think, as I said, that it answers the substance of the question that we are moving towards maintaining the interconnection. The question of draw-up remains anyway, as we have said, for experimental purposes. The question of standards is on the subject of examinations. All details for classes can be given in a reasonable time. But immediately for what parents reasonably wonder about, especially in the F grade, about high school, I think we can say that the direction is positive. All other questions about the other classes can be answered in a reasonable time, so that we do not present any further questions at this time. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are working together on a very systematic and linked draft which should be presented in a short time and should answer all the questions. We're in February. I think there is time at the moment, with these answers, I think we can ease anxiety and reflection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u156	And give us a perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u157	However, we have a reasonable period of time, so that the project of pilot and experimental schools is complete and meet the needs of all of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u158	Keep going, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I apologise for the unorthodoxness of the procedure, but you can understand that it concerns parents who are struggling, watching and waiting for clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u160	The fact that it's a big deal is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u161	I will simply say that I thank the Minister for actually giving the right signal to these schools, because Maraslio is not the "double" school of Kolonaki, as some people want to say. That's really what kids of all the social classes and kids from all over Attica are studying. Because these schools are front schools for us, they are first-class schools for us, we must show our interest there, as in all the issues that concern the education of our young people. I will tell you that here you have another big issue to solve, which is the choice of teachers who go hand in hand with the evaluation of teachers. This means that we expect you to move quickly as to the part of the evaluation that has to do with school advisors, with the training directors, with school managers, because it is a vicious circle. We must move on at some point because, if Martis comes and we do not resolve these issues, the next school year will be lost and it will be a pity. So, in the belief that immediately in the bill that comes into March we will also have administrative structures and the other primary and secondary issues, which you have rightly raised, I would like to tell you that the issues of education are the future of the country, and that is why we do not need experiments, but a stable framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u163	No, Mr President, I think we have covered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u164	You covered everything before. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-24-S1-commons.u165	With the consent of this House at 19.31' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 25 February 2020, and 12.00' at the sitting of this House: (a) applications for waiver of immunity from Members, according to the special agenda; and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda.
