ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special session of the Parliament for the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Pontou. Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, and my fellow Members, who have been appointed by their parliamentary groups, will be present for five minutes at this sitting. Please keep the time, because it follows a difficult meeting after. Ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years have been completed this year by the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, one of the most prestigious mass crimes of humanity, unfolded in the shadow of the creation of the modern Turkish state, a sweeping and sick inspiration that the New Turks first applied and later completed Kemal. Persecution, murder, torture, forced works, village fires, plundering and displacement were some of the methods that our neighbours carried out on the basis of a plan and an inconceivable cynicism. The result was an irreparable humanitarian disaster, which measures the three hundred three thousand human souls, losses which are part of a wider context of extinction of the Greek element of the East. To date, the official Turkish state has continued to deny Genocide and with a diluted nerve to classify it as the side-effects of a troubled era. This, of course, does not impress us, because Turkey continues to keep a firm and consistent line of refusal of its crimes, as in the case of the Asia Minor, Armenian and more recently Cypriots. In the same pattern it continues until today with threats, with lionisms and the "Drojan Horse" of migratory waves, which it sends to our borders. This is an oldly known terminology of our neighbours, but recently proved to be the attitude of the Greek Government to spectacularly fall into the void. Today, more than ever, we all have a duty to keep our memory alive and our future unbroken. We must honour and fight for the justice of our ancestors, because of them we draw wisdom and inspiration for our country's tomorrow. So let us stand up, with respect for the memory and drama of our Pontian brothers, honoring them, just as George Sarakanidis wrote in his poem: "Ponto, in star bright as the homeland." Here, Minister, on behalf of the government, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the testimony of the survivors of the Pontian Genocide carried a drama climate: 'I put too much soil in my ears so that I could not hear it, but the aid that was raised by the voices and crying was so great that the sky also listened to it'. Such a creepy testimony shows the extent of the pain experienced by the Pontian Hellenism, mourning three hundred and fifty - three thousand dead in the campaign of extermination, which lasted from 19 May 1919 to 1922. It is true that Pontian Hellenism, living away from the national centre, managed to keep all the values of the nation alive, history, language, culture and keep its flame alive. It is true that during the 19th century it has developed a multitude of activity, through which it appears to have the academic depth, creating schools with an excellent level, but also the economic potential, creating such economic structures that it may be the dominant element in the areas in which it lived. Always - but always! - it happened with other peoples in a spirit of peace and cooperation and by keeping the tradition of the Crystals of Byzantium, it always kept the flame of Hellenism within it. The attack and the systematic extermination process, which was accepted by the kemalian and neo-Turkish hordes, were not able to smash his spirit. That is why, when the remaining Pontian Hellenism was relocated to our country, Greece, in a difficult climate after a national disaster and an economic collapse and confronting many times with the distrust of the native populations, within a short period of time, with his faith in the authorities, in Orthodoxy, with his faith in the country, he managed to integrate and emerge one of the leading actors - I would say - of national ideals. This seemed to be because immediately afterwards, during World War II, he strongly fought against fascist hordes. Today, Pontian Hellenism has managed throughout the country to highlight its characteristics, in every local society having its presence, to keep the memory of its tradition alive and, of course, to contribute in every possible way to the economic, social, cultural and political presence of our country. That is why it is also our duty and duty to remember and honor the memory of the victims. It is also an obligation, not only this day, but every day we try for self-evidentness, finally to recognise the Pontian Genocide. We must do this, not in a spirit of retaliation against Turkey, but in the spirit that recognizing the truth can redeem us, so that we can go in the future together. It would be an act of responsibility, deeply repressive on the part of Turkey, to recognise crimes against the victims of the Pontian Genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express, on behalf of the government, the absolute respect and commitment of all of us to this national objective, namely, the recognition process of the Pontian Genocide as one of the genocide that they characterized last century and to call with you and all the Pontian Hellenism "never again".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on. The reason for this is Parliamentary Kozani of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bryzidou, for five minutes. You can speak from your position, Mrs. Brysidou. All of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament, by its decision twenty-six years ago, in 1994, unanimously recognises the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, one of the most tragic events in modern Greek history. Memory day and honor, May 19 in the hundreds of thousands of Pontus victims, who lost a hundred years ago, but also a statement of our unsatisfactory and constant effort to recognize their sacrifice. The Pontius of the Black Sea coast for thousands of years has been the distant eastern end of Greek Hellenism. They survived for centuries under foreign rule. But they maintained their culture, their faith in Orthodoxy, their language, which was a continuation of ancient Greek and dominated the vastness of the earth with their dynamism, optimism and creativity. Pontian Hellenism grew at an economic, spiritual and cultural level. The schools of Pontou, with the first instruction of the Bank, were bright centres of education in the wider region and with the preservation and dissemination of the brilliant Greek culture, they managed to radiate far beyond their limits. After the Balkan Wars, as Turkish guide German Colonel Sanders unveiledly said, he changes Turkish thinking. "Turkey has no security nor can it be organised freely in the future, due to the presence of the Greeks. That is why they must be persecuted and exterminated. In order to avoid a reaction to the civilised world, I propose, as a final solution, that 'white' death, endless routes. I can assure you that the cold, the cold, the rain, the hardships, the starvation and the diseases will bring the same result as the massacres that you are supposed to do." This is how the systematic Turkish expulsion of the Pontian Hellenism and the other Christian populations of the Ottoman Empire began from their historic homeland. Thus the mass crime of the Pontius Genocide, a crime against humanity, was committed. No matter how many years it passes, the memories don't fade. The Greeks of Pontou, who settled in their new homeland, who traveled around the world, have never forgotten their land, their historic valley, Pontus and Bankonda, the ravages in the plateaus, Panagia Sumella, the monasterys of Vasselon and Peristerita, but mainly they have not forgotten the uprooting of our ancestors, tortures, hardships that they have lived and which have resulted in their expatriation and the extermination of three hundred and three hundred thousand innocent souls. All of us, their offspring, have not stopped mourning our dead. That's how we grew up in our families, and that's how we raise our children. We are struggling to win the official universal recognition of the genocide of our people. When the horrific events are revealed, you can no longer forget, you cannot ask for the historical justice of the victims, you cannot seek the apology of those responsible. The crime of genocide not only concerns their victims and offspring, but it is a crime against humanity itself, which must condemn, to prevent and prevent it in the future. The impunity of the perpetrators and the tolerance of the major forces towards Turkey leaves room for new challenges, violations of international law and the continuation of its aggressive and expansionary strategy against Cyprus and Greece. The more she feels undisturbed, the more the road opens for her unacceptable claims. He also fears that recognition of the Pontius Genocide will raise demands for compensation to the stolen property of the persecuted. At the same time the Greeks of Asia Minor and Thrace suffered the same suffering. The Greek Parliament recognised September 14th as the day of memory of the Hellenism of Asia Minor and still the recognition of the Genocide of the Greeks of Thrace. The International Academy of Academics for Genocide Study decided that the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou and Anatolia, Armenian and Assyrians has been carried out. At the International Scientific Conference organized by the Pabodian Federation of Greece in Athens in December 2019, our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said that "The Genocide in Pontou and Asia Minor has not been recognized by the Greek Parliament alone. It has been identified by a number of foreign countries and states. This cycle, however, needs to be extended. That is why the government is moving methodically. Ladies and gentlemen, with a national strategy and, above all, a united society, institutions and parties, and using the incredible potential of universal Hellenism, as well as cooperation with the mayors, who are in a philosophical spirit and want the law, we must develop initiatives to promote this national duty at European level, in the European Parliament, in the Council of Europe and in the United Nations. Our aim is that the international recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou and the achievement of a circle of recognition by foreign parliaments so that Turkey should be forced to recognise the historical reality and, above all, to end its challenges and its expansionist policy, because International Law will not tolerate it and will not cover it. This development will confirm our struggles, defend human rights and ensure the avoidance of genocide in the future. It will protect our country and our sovereign rights, it will vindicate the souls of the wronged Greeks of the Pontou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u5	Members of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary Group, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, have the floor for five minutes. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a guest, but because of the pandemic I understand they are not here, but I hope they will be followed by other places - a hundred years from 19 May 1919, that is to say, the day the plan for the final extermination of the Greeks throughout Pontto was put into effect in an endless process of death. An “Auschwitz in flow”, as Professor Polychronis Enepcides said. It is the second time in a chronological order of the 20th century, after the Armenian and is a sad moment of human history, as it led to the uprooting of his ancestral homes a part of Hellenism which was fighting for their survival for thousands of years and which carried out its own worthwhile course, parallel to that of the rest of the Greeks. Hardly can human mind capture the methods and means that led to three hundred and fifty - three thousand Pontius to death. When Genocide was taken, the four hundred thousand uprooted people arrived in Greece, leaving behind a culture of three millenniums, ancestral lands, churches, graves and schools, with unique luggage of the memories and pain of their hearts. "The mind went forth. Evil, and I've seen the octopus and the grass. I'm out of here and I'm out of here, and I'm out of here. The tears were shepherded and the heart with many blood." "I lost my country, wept and hurt. I am sorry and reluctant to overthrow.” The arrival of the Pontians in the new homes was the beginning of a difficult but creative course for the Pontian Hellenism. People, with their unique dowry of pain and misery, fought away from their place to collect their pieces and with "skid in their souls", as Diaras says, to stand up and continue their lives. The first years were certainly not the happiest. Many times they were treated with distrust, so that the songs "Father I am plowed into an infinite curse. In foreigners I am Greek and in Greece I am a foreigner." No one can question that the cultural footprint of thousands of years of Greek Pontou never faded. "And in the shoulder with the Cross of the witness the pontoms of the witness, and by getting with us all the richness of the memories in a drama, in a tragedy, in an epic and in a merry ray, we arrived in the common home, in the common of the Pan-Hellenic Mother, Greece, with the firm decision, as we contributed to the reconstruction of the walls." he wrote many years ago, Leonidas Jasonides. Ladies and gentlemen, according to distinguished Professor Gregory Stanton, the last stage of genocide is its refusal. Recognition is the most important tribute and respect for the memory, culture and the long history of a people who suffered genocide. A special and special moment, of course, is the resolution of the International Academy of Genocide Study, which recognises Armenian, Assyrian and Greek genocide, Pontians, Thrace and Ionians. This is the 2007 resolution with an overwhelming majority of 83% of the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, 19 May gives the opportunity, in particular to the Pontius, to bring back memories and to consider our debt to the victims of Genocide, our relatives and modern Pontius. We must know and honor our history. The emergence and recognition of historical truth, as well as the preservation of historical memory, is a struggle, not only for the past, but especially for the present and future, because the generations that come will be safe, not only when genocide ceases to exist, but when the causes cause for them cease to exist. Acknowledging this importance in the years of our government, I think a great deal has been done. The first important step was the decision to create a museum dedicated to Pontic and Asia Minor Hellenism, at the site that was awarded to the Municipality of Pavlos Mela in Thessaloniki, along with the Museum of National Resistance, as announced by the then Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras. Following his meeting on May 18, 2019, with all the federations and foundations, which was the first Greek Prime Minister to have such an overall meeting, it was decided to set up a committee for the preparation of proposals to maintain the historical memory of the Greeks of the Pontou, with a view to preparing proposals and suggestions for the creation of Memory Points in Thessaloniki, Athens. It was decided to draw up a proposal to show up as a place of historical memory of Arets' decontamination sites in Kalamaria - more than twenty thousand, Mr President, they found death there in the disinfectants, as they came to settle - to record important sites of historical memory throughout the territory and to form a proposal. The continuation of the implementation of this decision, Minister, with what you and the rapporteur of the New Democracy have said on the basis of the continuation of the state, is pending, despite the declarations and I think it is time to make a reality. Can other steps be taken? The Government must continue to implement this decision and, as a proposal, Mr President and Minister, the immediate establishment by the House of Permanent and Permanent Intergroup Committees which, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will draw up and implement policies for the international recognition of the genocide of the Hellenism of the Sea and the general East. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We must, more than ever, for the victims of Genocide and their relatives as well as for the modern, preserve this historic fact and create the conditions which will lead to the rightful coexistence and cooperation of the peoples. Historical memory is alive, not only to remind us, but also to guide us, not to cultivate intolerance, xenophobia and any form of racism. We want the historical memory, to keep our bond, our voice, to put marks on our way, not to be lost in the endless odyssey of our course. As Professor Fotiadis has said, "Memory is power, it is the only healthy medicine that keeps us strong on this earth" or, Mr President, in the words of Leonida Jasonides "Get out of me the gray if we deceive you as a Patrios Pontius earth." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u7	Good. The reason for this is that the Drama Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mrs Charula Kefalidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 19 May 2020. They even closed a hundred years from the unscrupulous tragedy of the extinction of the Greeks of the Pontus. Today we honor the three hundred and three thousand lives lost, the memory of the persecution of thoughts, customs, ancient traditions, the violent destruction of an entire people on the basis of a predetermined plan, which the Neo-Turks initially carried out and then the Kemalics at the beginning of the civilization, of course, 20th century. This is the genocide, the extermination of an entire people, only because it is the one who is - an atrocity - while the civilized world was sleeping, allowing a crime to be committed against humanity, which only our oblivion can write off. It's not the only one. The concepts of humanism, of the value of life have often been neglected by history, especially the time it takes to prevent a new atrocity. The Holocaust, the Armenian genocide, so many crimes committed in global consciousness were identified. The Genocide of Pontian Hellenism has not yet found its place in the consciousness of the international community as such, despite the evidence available, which has been very hard and systematic research, gathered for the total number of the dead. The responsibility - let us not forget - must not be sought away from us. How active are we as a country in informing international public opinion about Turkish atrocities during World War I? How much do we tolerate the slaughter of an entire people as an accident in history? The question of the recognition of the Pontius Genocide, unlike that of Israel and Armenia, has emerged enormously late. The Genocide is remembered every day, 19 May, at a brief ceremony and several times, either as a means of political survival or as a riot victim of unarmed policies. This is not its usefulness, nor are the souls of thousands of Pontus dead found vindication. As often as historical events are judged in the light of political purposes, not only are perverted, but they are also unfair whenever they are wronged, the old wound is injured. It is characteristic of human nature that he wants to move forward, leaving what is hurting her and with them in the shadow of the perishing. Maintaining the collective memory of each unscrupulous national blow is the duty of each state, but it is a duty that wants courage and bravery. He wants courage to see how cruel and inappropriate human nature and braveness can be hidden to accept our omissions, our frustrations, guilt for everything we have not yet done, so that the Pontian Genocide can be enrolled in the criminal record of humanity, become common conscious to today's man, as another crime that embarrasses the civilized world. The Greek state has been in debt since 24 February 1994 to formulate the national policy for the international recognition of the Genocide of Hellenism of the Pontou. The unformative recognition of history, the international recognition of the Genocide of the Pontius, is a duty not only as a reward for the thousands of victims. It's the way to heal the wounds of the past. To the persuasiveness of those who so steadfastly organized their extinction, the outdated Pontius managed to overcome the pain of loss, managed to rebuild their broken lives from the outset, picking up the pieces of their history. They went ahead, but they didn't forget. We need the memory. It's the key to a better world. It affects our political thought and action. The daring to remember is the victory of collective morality. The history of the Greeks of Pontou, we need it, in order to move forward, constantly centralize us, not to forget the catastrophe that intolerance, extreme ideologies, racism and division can bring. It is collective memory that leads us to determine our responsibility toward humanity and history. The acceptance of this responsibility is the greatest honour for the thousands of people who have been lost. We need the memory to know we can. Today's prosperous Pontian community is the victory of existence against non-existence. As long as the ketches and toulum play, as long as the apes are made, mushrooms, habits and cocks, as long as we rise up with the leaf of the terrain and the tower, as long as we roar and laugh at the mouse anecdotes, as long as we ask the state to include in school books the history of Persian Pontian Hellenism, as long as we insist to remember and progress, we will honor the memory of those who have been lost. Who knows? Somewhere can Vassilis Anthopoulos from Kyzik, the famous Vasil Agas, captain Eukleidis Kourtides from Santa, the Godguard Theophylactus from Argyroupolis, the doctor, Christos Calantides, the radiologist, George Kantidiotis, the so-called "Papadianist of the Pontou", Constantine Constantinidis, Mimis Kefalidis, my father, and so many others, who gave their lives for the recognition of this great historical truth about the Pontian Hellenism, feel that all they did did did did was worth it, and that second heart of the past will continue to strike within us and keep our pace for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u9	The speech is made by MP Heraklion of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we honour the hundredth anniversary of the Renaissance of the Greeks of the Pontus during which hundreds of thousands of people were lost, one and a half million souls took the way of refugee, experienced impoverishment, disease and racism. In their overwhelming majority were poor workers and farmers who were treated deportably, as second and third-class people by the Greek urban state and its governments. They faced the contempt and hatred of nationalist natives, stigmatizing them as 'Turkish seeds', attacking the settlements, demanding the extermination of the country from their presence, while their descendants - nationalist, fascist organizations - are trying, even today, to rob the genuine feelings of Pontian Hellenism. That is why the entire population must isolate them, the whole of the people. The JRC, due to its internationalist and class conception, was a real disgrace to the refugees, who took the lead in their struggles and claims, fought their tactics, divided and reigned between refugees and indigenous people and false separatist lines, which the urban world wanted to impose, forging still deep and strong ties with the refugee element. Until now, some do not lose the opportunity to strip the facts of the time from their essence, to distort historical truth and to pour their anti-communist poison. The JRC, taking into account the economic and socio-political conditions that existed, approaches the causes that led to the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism in such a way that it cancels any attempt to cover or distort historical truth. What were these causes? The intra-imperialist competitions and conflicts in the region, making Pontian Hellenism one of the most tragic victims in conditions of disintegration of the Ottoman empire then. Secondly, the rise of Turkish civilism serving the rising Turkish bourgeoisie in the plans for the formation of the nation-state against the domination of the Greek and Armenian bourgeoisie at that time. Thirdly, the shift of the pursuits of the Greek bourgeoisie in the rich region of Asia Minor, which led not only to the abandonment of the Greeks and other peoples of the Pontou, but also to their use as a diversion and a means of pressure in trying to achieve its own competitive interests. Fourthly, the choices of the Greek ruling Pontou class to seek a solution to the Pontian issue from the intervention of the so-called great powers and not from the forces of the Pontian people and the other peoples of the region. The opposing urban classes, Greek and Turkish, were not left unreserved. They were found behind rival imperialist camps of Adad and central forces respectively, turning peoples into pawns and negotiating papers, into a geostrategic chess board. Today, we are in front of a synchronised global capitalist crisis with incalculable consequences for workers in land, who are again called upon by the political staff of capital to pay the broken ones, to get the capital out of sight. In these circumstances, competition is further exacerbated to control the markets and, in particular, the powerful imperialist states, such as the conflict that takes place during the period between the two strongest economies of the world, the United States and China, with the backdrop of confrontation over the origin of the new coronary. In the context of these competitions, the controversy between the Turkish and Greek urban classes is also exacerbated. Turkish aggression is fuelled by NATO and the European Union's support, as well as the efforts of the Greek bourgeoisie to take part in the sharing of prey from exploiting the rich production sources in the region. The Greek people and the neighbouring people must be vigilant about the dangerous developments against the reassurance that Greek governments are cultivating. It has now been shown that membership of the European Union and NATO does not offer people any security, but instead involve them in imperialist planning and interventions. Today, in Greece, thousands of refugees and immigrants are trapped under terrible conditions, rooted out of their homelands, because of the imperialist wars conducted under the responsibility of the US, NATO and the European Union. The Greek Government has huge responsibilities over time, all the governments that actively take part in these designs, turning our country into a vast American-Natural base, giving land and water to the people's killers. Even today, the objective for the recognition of the State of Palestine by the Greek state remains unfulfilled, as a vindication of their struggle, against the murderous state of Israel. For the JRC the highest honour for the memory of the history of the Pontian people is the struggle to never live up to what has been suffered by the Pontian and Asia Minor Hellenism, the struggle against the actors and genealogical causes of the exploitation of wars and refugee, against the poison of chauvinism, nationalism and fascism. The JRC undertakes to stand next to the organized Pontian space, in every fair claim, for the promotion and preservation of the political and intellectual heritage of the Pontians, their efforts to internationally recognize the genocide of the Greek Pontians. We are standing on the side of thousands of expatriates who, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the capitalist rehabilitation, settled in our country and continue after so many years to face serious rehabilitation problems. We will always remember and always honor the Pontius and Pontians who have even given their lives for their high ideals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u11	The speech is given by MP II Thessaloniki of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, thank you. In his diary, Kostas Kourtides writes about the disputed incident: "This night was the most horrifying night I lived in my life. Women and children, about three hundred, gathered a little further into a cave, guarded by about a hundred twenty young unarmed persons. For nine hours we were fighting against the Turkish army that surrounded us from everywhere. At midnight, the shooting pandemony stopped, and the rebels and the women and children were retired to place Merciane Lithar. It was then necessary, before dawn, to find a solution: they were completely quietly removed from that position, because otherwise the grave would become and large and small, armed and civilians. Those tragic, fatal, desperate mothers were forced to kill infants and young children who weeped so they wouldn't betray their positions. After dawn and the Turks started the operation against the guerrillas, they saw seven infants killed. Then the head of the day himself ordered the Turkish army to return to Santa and said: "People who killed their children are impossible to catch and therefore it is unnecessary to stay here." Ladies and gentlemen, as many years as they pass, the crime committed against the Christian populations of the Pontus is not being tampered with, not being tampered with and forgotten. This atrocity is at risk of being forgotten only if we forget it and only if we do not teach it in the next generations. What the Sultan failed in five centuries, Kemal succeeded in five years. On May 19, 1919, Mustafa Kemal was deported to Samsonda, to begin the second and most brutal phase of Pontian Genocide, under the guidance of his German and Soviet advisers. Until the Asia Minor Destroy, in 1922 the Greeks who lost their lives surpassed the two thousand, while some other historians put this number up to three hundred and fifty thousand. Those who escaped the Turkish sword fled as refugees to southern Russia, while about four hundred thousand came to Greece. With their knowledge, with their work, they made a maximum contribution to the rectification of the seated Greek state at that time and changed the population balances, in Northern Greece, mainly. All Greeks remain in the strife of the most honest and most consecrated race. We can't deal with each other. We expect justice. We are patiently awaiting the blessed hour that, as Elytis writes, "the dreams will receive revenge". The Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, but also of them throughout Asia Minor, is an undeniable, completely documented fact, a horrific reality, which insults the entire civilized humanity and is included in more black pages of world history. Today, however, we are also honouring the tortured generation of refugees. All these compatriots who have managed to escape from the fire and the knife at the very last moment and reach with thousands of hardships in the mother Greece. We honor the generation, which lifted the cross of the testimony, which came raccoon refugee in Greece, but did not squeeze the head, never bent. They were these wonderful people who brought together as a precious prisoner a story, a culture, a culture, an ancient one contributing to the historical regeneration of our country. Today's message must be clear and clear. Our historical memory, our experiences are not a product of negotiation and compromise. We must demand the recognition of genocide in order to shine historical truth and to rest the souls of the ancestors who have suffered everything. God give and never live on earth their own drama. Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u13	We are closing with Congressman I East Attica of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Maria Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we at Mera25 honour the day of memory of the Pontian Genocide and stand against any nationalist hatred that bears such a waste of history. As the first Greek MP born in Russia, by Greek Pontou parents, I feel I have to tell you something: "National I lost, wept and hurt. I am sorry and reluctant to overthrow and wonder." It's not just the lyrics of a song. It is the pain of three hundred and fifty-three thousand Moles, who have fallen victim to genocide by the Chets of Topal Osman. They're stories of my Blessed grandfather from Ordu of Kerashunta, a man that few knew, but I was lucky to grow up with his stories during the summers in the Caucasus. I could tell you about the band of death, playing Turkish piracy, as our homes were burning. I could tell you about the grandmothers I never knew. But all I'm going to tell you is what my grandfather the Blessed would want. He said to me, "You're in life all you've ever been. There is no retraining.' Look, don't forget. His words never had hatred and evil. They only had one sorrow for the vindication that they never came. My obligation and obligation for all the Pontians is not to forget, to vindicate all the wrongful souls of our ancestors. False nationalisms cannot erase our stories and our hearts. "Romania, if it did, blossom and bring more." For all the teteres, for all the Greeks, for all humanity we have to have the international recognition of the Pontius Genocide as the first political priority. The International Association of Genocide Studies, which officially recognised the Genocide of the Greeks of the Sea of 2007, notes: The refusal of a genocide is the last stage of genocide, what ensures impunity for genocide perpetrators and prepares the ground for future genocide. That's why we can't forget. The struggle for the recognition of the Pontian Genocide is a fight against the revival of racism. The Pontian Hellenism, who has lived in refuge, has learned what war is, what impoverishment and racism will mean, but also what difficulties it will make in integrating into a new society. There are those who consider peace to be based on oblivion. In Merra25, on the contrary, we believe that international democracy is based on memory. Conversely, memory is only possible thanks to the freedom and freeness offered by democracy. In a truly democratic Europe, the recognition of the Moles genocide will not be the cause of resentment, but care to avoid such events in the future. I am particularly sensitive to the issue of Pontius Genocide and as a woman, because genocide primarily target women as bodies of life. Historical regression and memory is a crucial issue of education against attempts to undermine and degrade Pontius' martyrdom. Because only if we remember and recognize genocide, only if we fight for their international recognition will we be able to never happen again in the future. For all the Pontius, for all the Greeks. I don't forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, with the unanimous statement that we do not forget, I invite you to keep a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the Genocide of the Greeks and Greeks of the Pontou. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the special session on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greek and Greek peoples of the Pontou was concluded and a minute's silence was observed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S1-commons.u16	With the consent of the House at 10:30 the session is closed for today Tuesday 19 May 2020 at 10:30, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny according to the special agenda that has been distributed to you.
